K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI) has unfairly  declined  their claim and 
cancelled their landlord insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs L own a buy to let property and have their landlord insurance with UKI. And in 
July 2018, they made a claim under their policy for malicious damage and rent arrears.
UKI considered the claim and found  that while the occupants of Mr and Mrs Ls property had 
been in situ since February 2018,  no tenancy  agreement hadnt been put in place. It said it 
also had reason to believe the property had been  sub-let. 
UKI said its a requirement  of the policy that a short-assured tenancy  agreement  is in place. 
And the terms dont  allow for the property  to be sub-let. It said the integrity of Mr and Mrs Ls 
contract with it had been compromised,  and as a result,  it planned to avoid the policy from 
the date of their last renewal. 
But UKI first gave Mr and Mrs L 14 days to provide any information that might dispute its 
findings. Mr and Mrs L didnt provide  anything  that changed UKIs decision, so it avoided  the 
policy and refunded the premiums.
Mr and Mrs L complained  to UKI about its decision and about it failing to refund their policy  
premiums within 28 days. UKI accepted that the refund  of premiums had taken ten days 
longer than promised,  and it apologised for any inconvenience this had caused.
But it maintained its position to avoid  the policy. It said that when it requested information to 
dispute its findings, Mr and Mrs L told it that the present and past occupants  were  not known 
to them,  and that the tenants occupying the property on the date of loss were  not their 
tenants. So it was satisfied the steps  itd taken were  fair.
Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to this service, and our investigator said that UKI had 
been fair in its actions.  So she didnt  uphold the complaint. She also found that there were 
conflicting statements  in Mr and Mrs Ls testimony. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the 
investigators findings, so the complaint has been  passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold the complaint 
and Ill explain why.
When considering  this complaint, I need to take into account relevant law and regulations,  
regulators rules,  guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where appropriate, what  I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the time.
Relevant law for this complaint is the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). Under this, a consumer has a duty to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. An insurer can take certain action, like avoiding a policy,  if a qualifying  
misrepresentation has been made. 
Ref: DRN26455592Its worth  noting that Mr and Mrs Ls recollection of events, has, at times,  changed  over the 
course of this complaint. And so its resulted in a somewhat  conflicting  testimony  from them 
 to both this service  and UKI, and also a level of ambiguity on the specific  circumstances 
that led to an unknown family residing at their insured  property. So Ive had to base my 
conclusions on the information and evidence available  and what  I think is most likely to have 
happened in all the circumstances of this case.
Ive seen a copy  of the renewal documents that were sent to Mr and Mrs L in March 2018. In 
the cover  letter  and supporting documents, theyre  instructed to check  all of the information  
in the enclosed schedule and statement of fact, and to tell UKI immediately if any details are 
incorrect, incomplete or have been omitted. Its explained that failure to do so may mean the 
insurance policy isnt valid or could result in the claim not being paid or only being paid in 
part. 
The renewal  documents  include a copy of the original statement of fact, which, as I 
understand it, wouldve been  completed  by Mr and Mrs L at policy  inception.  It lists several  
written assumptions about Mr and Mrs L, their tenants and the insured property.  And they 
had to comply with these  assumptions to get the cover.  This is common with these  types of 
policies. One of these assumptions says;
Only tenants who have  signed the tenancy agreement  will live permanently  at the 
property unless they are:
(i) members of the same  family; or
(ii) the partner of the tenant; or
(iii) people  the tenant is the legal  guardian  for.
A further  assumption  says: Your property(ies)  are not and will not be: sub-let
The document follows on to a list of questions that Mr and Mrs L have provided answers to:
Is the property fully occupied?
Do you carry out background and identity checks and collect independent references for 
each tenant that signs  the tenancy  agreement and any guarantors  of theirs, before
the tenancy agreement starts? 
Are all properties let under  an assured shorthold tenancy, a short-assured tenancy or an 
assured tenancy ?
Having read these questions carefully  Im satisfied they were clear  and specific.  And Ive 
seen Mr and Mrs L answered  yes to these questions.
Mr and Mrs L initially told UKI that when they visited their property in February 2018 they 
found a family in the property that wasnt their tenants and was unknown to them.  And from 
the call notes regarding  this discussion, it seems  Mr and Mrs L allowed the unknown  family 
to stay at the property  regardless.
Mr and Mrs L also had no evidence that any members of the family were employed, and 
there wasnt any evidence  that a signed  tenancy agreement of any form was in place, as this 
had only been  agreed verbally.  So on the face of it, the answers Mr and Mrs L gave to the 
above questions  at renewal were  wrong.
Ref: DRN26455593On learning of this, UKI gave Mr and Mrs L the opportunity to explain matters further before 
it took any action  in relation to the incorrect information itd been given. And in response, 
Mr L sent a follow up letter  which included the following  summarised statements:
The present  and past tenants were not known to him.
Hed arrived from abroad  to find three  unknown people occupying his property and 
one of these individuals told him they had a stable job and would  pay weekly  rent.
He handed  the individuals a tenancy application.
Rent wasnt paid on the agreed  dates.
He then contacted the police but was told he had to go to court.
Notice was served  on the property  as the tenants were refusing  him access.
In early July neighbours notified  him that the tenants had moved out and new tenants 
had subsequently moved in.
He took control  of the house in July and informed the court.
Ive not seen a signed  copy of any form of tenancy  agreement for Mr and Mrs Ls property. 
And the information  above, which came directly  from Mr L, seems to confirm that while  
Mr and Mrs L say they handed  the unknown family  a tenancy application, theres no 
supporting evidence of this, or that the tenants  ever agreed to it. 
So given the circumstances and available evidence, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs L have 
demonstrated that either a signed shorthold tenancy, a short-assured tenancy or an assured 
tenancy agreement  was in place for the family  living at their property. 
Mr and Mrs L have said their property was occupied by people  who were  unknown to them. 
This would suggest  to me that their previous tenants, who presumably wouldve been known 
to them,  had sub-let the flat to these people.  So I can understand why UKI reached the 
conclusion that the property had been sub-let  prior to renewal, as Ive seen no other 
plausible reasons for this course of events.
Mr and Mrs L were  arguably aware of this when they met the unknown family  occupying the 
property in February 2018  which was before the policy renewed a few months later.  And 
as per the renewal documents and policy terms, they had a duty to notify UKI of these  
changes as soon  as they became aware  of them. 
But Ive not seen any evidence to show that they did this. So Im persuaded by the 
information Ive seen, that the answers  Mr and Mrs L gave to the above questions  and 
assumptions at renewal were incorrect.
But deciding whether or not Mr and Mrs L took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation is to be determined in light of all the relevant  circumstances. CIDRA  lists 
examples of things  that may need  to be taken into account, including how clear and specific 
the insurers questions  were. 
As Ive said above,  Im satisfied that the questions and assumptions identified above  were 
sufficiently clear and specific, and that Mr and Mrs L misrepresented  the information they 
gave to UKI.
Ref: DRN26455594From the information Ive seen, and in the particular circumstances of this case,  Im satisfied 
that UKI wouldnt have  offered Mr and Mrs L a policy at the time of their renewal, had it been  
given a true representation of the facts. I say this because, on balance  and based on my 
experience, I think its very unlikely  that an insurance provider would  offer landlord cover  for 
a property when  theres  no tenancy  agreement in place. 
So Im persuaded  by the evidence that a qualifying misrepresentation was made.  Theres  no 
suggestion by UKI that Mr and Mrs L deliberately made the misrepresentation. And CIDRA 
says if its not deliberate  (or reckless)  then its careless.
CIDRA sets out the remedies that UKI can apply  in a number of circumstances where the 
misrepresentation is careless,  including when a claim  has been made. Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint involves a claim under the policy, and what UKI can do is based  on what  it 
wouldve done if Mr and Mrs L had complied with their duty to take reasonable care. 
Where UKI wouldnt have entered into the insurance  contract with Mr and Mrs L, it may 
avoid the policy and refuse  the claim, but it must return the premium paid. And this is what  
UKI has done. I think this is fair in the circumstances of this case,  so I wont  be asking UKI to 
do anything further.
Ive considered all of Mr and Mrs Ls comments including what theyve said about the 
property not being sub-let.  This is because  theyve said it was vacant before the unknown 
family moved in due to an escape  of water, which meant they had to evacuate  their 
previous tenants.  
But even if I was persuaded the property wasnt sublet by the previous tenants, for the 
reasons Ive already explained,  Im satisfied Mr and Mrs L didnt  have, or at very least 
havent evidenced, that a tenancy agreement of any form was in place with the unknown  
occupants at the point they renewed  their policy with UKI. And so by telling UKI that they did 
have one in place  they misrepresented information to it. 
From what  Ive seen, Mr and Mrs L have also breached the policy  terms and conditions  in 
this case. This is because, under the terms of the policy, Mr and Mrs L had a duty to make  to 
UKI a fair presentation of the risk they present. But by Mr and Mrs L not having a tenancy 
agreement in place,  and not telling  UKI about  this as soon as this fact became apparent, Im 
satisfied that this term has been breached in this case.
After looking over the terms and conditions, the remedy of such a breach involves UKI taking 
the same  action as it already has in this case.  So either way, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Ls 
claim has been fairly declined and fair action has been taken as a result.  So these points 
dont change my conclusion.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs L have  raised  concerns over a previous claim they made with UKI 
about a leak at the property. As this is a separate claim  to the one thats been complained 
about in this case, I cant comment on the circumstances of this matter. Mr and Mrs L should  
therefore raise any issues  they have about  this other claim with UKI directly.
Ref: DRN26455595my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 February  2020
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2645559