K820x#14Complaint
Mr A and Miss S say Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
Background
Mr A and Miss S took out a PPI policy with a further advance on their mortgage in 2002. 
Mr A and Miss S paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium,  which  didnt attract  
interest. It covered Mr A in case he was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr A and Miss S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr A and Miss Ss case. 
Having done that, Ive not found  that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because of all the time thats  passed, Halifax dont have all the original documents. But from 
what weve seen of its sales process  at the time,  it looks  like Halifax  wouldve made it clear 
Mr A and Miss S had a choice about buying  PPI, and only set it up if they actively  chose it. 
The cost of the policy wouldve been set out separately to the cost of the lending, rather than 
as something that was automatically included. And it looks  like in order  to get PPI, Mr A and 
Miss S wouldve applied for it separately to applying for the loan itself.  Mr A and Miss S had 
already got their mortgage and a further  advance without PPI the year before, so they 
wouldve known they didnt have to take PPI to get their secured lending.  And I havent seen 
any wider problems with Halifaxs  sales process from the time, Overall, I think its most likely 
that Halifax made Mr A and Miss S aware  they had a choice about  buying  the PPI, and that 
they chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if they no longer remember doing  
so after so many years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr A and Miss S, so it had to check it was right for them. 
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr A was the main earner, was eligible  for the cover, and wasnt affected by any of 
its main exclusions or limitations.
From what  Mr A and Miss S told us, Mr A didnt have any official benefits  through  work, and 
had savings of only around £2,000, which would not have  lasted  long if needed to cover  his 
income. So the PPI offered them far more comprehensive cover. I understand Mr As boss 
and family  may have  been happy  to help, but there  was always the chance theyd be unable 
to help when needed. Further, the secured  borrowing  was Mr A and Miss Ss responsibility,  
not anyone elses,  so I dont think it wouldve been  suitable for Halifax to recommend that 
they rely on other people to pay it. And the PPI meant they wouldnt have to ask anyone  else 
to cover their secured loan payments. Ultimately, its worth  bearing in mind  that if Mr A and 
Miss S fell behind on their repayments they couldve lost their home. It looks like the PPI 
couldve really been useful for them  in protecting their home and giving some peace  of mind. 
Ref: DRN29509762Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr A and Miss S about PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think  better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr A wasnt  affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr A and Miss S in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly basis, so Mr A and Miss S could cancel 
it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely  to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr A and Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2950976