K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  her late husband, Mr J, a single 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a loan.
background
Mrs and Mr J took out a 60 month personal loan with Lloyds in 1988.  Mrs J says this was 
taken out on the phone and they went into the bank to sign the paperwork afterwards. A 
single premium PPI policy was added at the same time as taking the loan. This covered 
their loan repayments for the same term. The loan was repaid within  44 months. The policy 
covered Mr J only.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs J didnt agree, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to consider. She said, in summary, PPI was not 
discussed at the time and so PPI was mis-sold. She said Mr J was in secure employment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know what was discussed at the meeting Mrs and Mr J had with the bank. Given how 
long ago this was, Lloyds no longer has a copy of Mrs and Mr Js paperwork from the time 
of sale. Banks  often  only keep records for six years. But, Mrs J has very helpfully provided a 
copy of the loan agreement from the time.  
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, I have to base my decision 
on what I think is most likely to have happened  based on whats  available. So, as well as 
taking into account  what Mrs J recalls from the time of sale,  Ive looked  at loan agreement 
from the time. Ive also taken into account  what we know about Lloyds sales processes 
from dealing with other cases.
Its not clear from the loan agreement whether this was a joint loan. It looks like the loan 
may have  been  in Mr Js name only. But, either  way, this doesnt change my view on the 
outcome of this complaint. I say this because it is clear that the policy  was taken out in 
Mr Js name  only and Mrs J wasnt working  at the time.
 
Mrs J said she couldnt recall PPI being discussed at the meeting she and Mr J had with 
Lloyds. I wouldnt expect  her to, after so much  time.  I accept that Mrs J is providing an 
honest account of what  she recalls  from 30 years ago. Originally, she couldnt recall  why 
the loan had been taken  out, her memory was jogged after reading her diary entries from 
around the time of sale.
Overall, I think it likely they wouldve  been asked if they wanted PPI before it was added  
to the loan agreement. I say this because of the way the loan agreement was set out  it 
showed the amount of the loan, the cost of the optional loan repayment protection, the 
Ref: DRN24766942total amount of the loan, and the interest rate payable. The yes box selecting  optional 
loan repayment  protection was ticked. So, I think PPI was added because they said the 
wanted it, it having been pointed out clearly that it was optional.
suitability
Lloyds probably recommended this policy to Mrs and Mr J, so it had to make  sure that 
the policy  was suitable for their needs.  It also had to give them information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could decide for themselves if they wanted to 
buy it. Only Mr J was covered under the policy, but as its not clear whether this was a 
joint loan, I have also taken into account  Mrs Js circumstances too when  deciding  this 
complaint. 
Lloyds no longer has a copy of the policy terms and conditions  that applied at the time 
of sale. So, Ive taken  into account what we know about other  policies being sold around 
this time. I think the terms were  likely  to be similar.
I cant see that this policy  was unsuitable for Mrs and Mr Js needs.  I say this because:
Mr J appeared eligible to take out the policy. Mrs J wasnt  working at the time, so it 
seems appropriate  that the cover was in his name only;
I cant see that it was unaffordable;
Mrs J couldnt remember if Mr J wouldve got any sick pay through  work. But, even if 
he wouldve, the policy wouldve paid out on top of that and potentially for longer than 
his work  benefits  wouldve covered him for, for up to 12 months per successful claim. 
Mrs J said they had some premium bonds  they could cash  in. But, I cant  see that 
their other means meant that the policy was unsuitable. I think PPI couldve provided  
them with valuable  protection, if Mr J was too sick to work or lost his job. It wouldve 
allowed them to use Mr Js work benefits to meet their other household expenditure, 
knowing their loan repayments were covered. It wouldve avoided them having to cash 
in their premium bonds to meet their repayments;
   they wouldnt have  got a pro-rata refund of the premiums when they ended the 
loan and policy early.  But, I cant see that they knew the loan would be ended early  
at the outset, so I cant say that they have lost out because of something Lloyds 
did wrong;  and
   I dont know what was discussed about  the policys  main features or how they were  
presented to Mrs and Mr J. However, I dont  think this wouldve made  a difference  
to their decision to buy PPI as I cant see that Mr J was affected by any of the main 
limitations or exclusions that wouldve likely  applied. As it seems likely he couldve 
benefitted from everything the policy  offered,  I dont think the policy  was unsuitable 
for their needs.
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading
Its possible that Mrs and Mr J couldve been  given clearer information about the costs of 
the policy. The loan agreement did tell them the interest rate payable and the amount of the 
PPI premium, so I think they wouldve understood what they were paying overall. So, I think  
even with better information most  likely this wouldnt have changed Mrs and Mr Js decision 
to buy the policy.
I think the policy was suitable and it offered  useful  protection. I cant see that they lost out 
because of anything that Lloyds couldve  done  better.
Ref: DRN24766943Ive taken into account everything that Mrs Js said. But, for the reasons Ive explained, 
this hasnt changed my view. I still think this complaint shouldnt  be upheld.
my final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  on her own behalf and on behalf  of the estate  of the late Mr J before 
14 September 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2476694