K821x#15Complaint
Mr W complains that Alphabet (GB)  Limited has reduced the agreed  refund amount following 
the early return of the car he leased  under a hire agreement. 
Background
Mr W entered into a four year hire agreement  with Alphabet in 2016 to lease a new car. He 
says he experienced  issues  shortly  after receiving  the car and that over the following months  
further issues arose. He says that in the period he had the car he needed to return  it on 
twelve occasions and each time he was without the car of a number of weeks. He says that 
while dealing with the issues he didnt receive  the service he shouldve  with calls and emails 
not being responded to by Alphabet.
Mr W says that car wasnt safe to drive and that on one occasion  the issues  resulted in a 
crash. He says that in February 2019,  it was accepted that the faults couldnt be resolved 
and it was agreed that the costs of stopping the lease early would be covered.
Over the following weeks, Mr W says that he told Alphabet  he needed his cherished number 
plate returned  but the correct action wasnt taken causing delays.  He says the car remained 
on his drive unused  for two months because of the delays. He says he agreed a refund 
amount to reflect the reduced lease term, the retention of the number plate and 
compensation. However he says that Alphabet then reduced the agreed settlement amount 
by two monthly rentals because of the delay in the car being returned. He says this isnt fair 
because he wasnt able to use the car in that period  due to it not being  safe.
Alphabet says that rejection of the car was accepted in February 2019 as a gesture of 
goodwill and not because it had accepted that Mr W had grounds  for rejection. It says the 
car was still driveable.  It says that compensation was offered as well as a partial  refund of 
Mr Ws advance  rental  to reflect the reduced lease term and that it was always  clear that 
Mr W would  be responsible for the payments  until the car was collected. It says Mr W 
accepted the offer but then didnt want to pay for the outstanding rentals although  he later 
offered to pay half of the balance.
In regard to the cherished number plate, Alphabet says that the DVLA are responsible  for 
processing this and the recommended timescales  are eight weeks.  It says it couldnt be held 
responsible for any delays.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said that when the rejection had been  confirmed 
Mr W had said he wouldnt be making  any payments and as this wasnt  acknowledged or 
responded to it was reasonable  for Mr W to assume that this had been accepted. Because of 
this he thought Alphabet should  refund Mr W the £1618.66 it had offered  and ensure no 
adverse credit information was recorded  on Mr Ws credit file as a result of the issues 
addressed in the complaint.
Mr W responded to our investigators view reiterating that the car experienced issues  shortly 
after collection and that it was noted as unsafe  to drive. He said Alphabet had caused delays 
through the process and that it sent him arrears letters  while his complaint was being 
investigated. He said he clearly set out he would be stopping payments following the 
acceptance of rejection  of the car.
Ref: DRN27852562Alphabet didnt accept our investigators view. It reiterated that it hadnt  accepted  there were 
grounds for the car to be rejected but said because support had been offered by the 
manufacturer to allow this to happen rejection had been accepted. It said while Mr W had 
experienced issues these werent all confirmed faults and there  wasnt  evidence to show 
there were faults present  at the point of supply. It also said that Mr W had been kept mobile 
while he was without  his car. It said it had offered  compensation and to cover other costs, 
namely the DVLA fee and a months  outstanding  rental. It also said it didnt  charge for the 
excess mileage that would have been calculated based on when the car was returned.
Alphabet said that it was never said that continued use of the car would be free of charge. It 
said Mr Ws mileage  showed he had reasonable use of the car and it was reasonable he 
paid for this. It said it wasnt responsible for any delays  in regard to the cherished number 
plate. It also said that the accident referred  to by Mr W wasnt due to the car cutting out.
Alphabet said it would work with Mr W and offered  to remove  any adverse entries that may 
have been posted on his credit profile  for any missed payments but didnt think it should be 
required to waive the outstanding payments.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Alphabet accepted  the rejection of the car as a gesture of goodwill  and because  of 
the support from the manufacturer. Given Mr Ws experience I found  it reasonable 
that rejection was agreed and I didnt  find it necessary to comment further  on the 
grounds for this; and
a refund was agreed to settle Mr Ws complaint. This included a partial refund for his 
advance rental payment, £250  compensation, the waiving of an administration  fee 
and one months rental and also covering the cost of the DVLA  fee for the transfer of 
his cherished number plate. As this was accepted I didnt find that I needed to 
comment further on the contents of this settlement.
The outstanding issue related to the deduction made to the agreed settlement of the 
additional two months rental payments that arose in the period between  the cars  rejection 
being accepted and the car being collected.  In considering this, I concluded:
that Alphabet  hadnt caused unnecessary delays in the process;
under  the agreement  it would be generally accepted that the payments would be 
made until collection and that Mr W should  be responsible for paying for the use of 
the car. But Mr W had confirmed that he didnt feel able to use the car from 
22 February and given his past experiences with the car I understood why he felt it 
unsafe to drive.
Overall, I found the fairest way to resolve  this complaint was for Alphabet to pay Mr W the 
settlement amount as it initially offered totalling  £1,618.66 along with waiving the fees and 
months rental as agreed. I thought  it fair that Alphabet that waived any rentals due from 
22 February due to Mr W not being  able to use the car but that it could reduce the refund by 
any remaining amount  due up to 22 February.  
Ref: DRN27852563Alphabet agreed  in part with my provisional decision. However it challenged my 
recommendation for rentals post 22 February to be waived  or refunded.  It said that Mr Ws 
agreement was due to run until October  2020 and had a mileage allowance  of 40,000  miles. 
It said when the car was collected on 9 April 2019  it had been driven 34,264 miles. It also 
noted that while Mr W raised concerns about the car in February 2019 there was no further  
evidence of these  issues or support to show the car wasnt driveable at that time. It noted 
that Mr Ws car had been driven 31,563 miles in January 2019 and 34,264 at collection even 
though Mr W had said he hadnt ben bale to drive it from 22 February. 
Alphabet also says that the delay was due to Mr Ws decision to keep his cherished  number 
plate meaning  it wasnt  able to collect and sell the car until this had been processed.  It said 
the payment should be made  to cover the depreciation of the car for that period. It also noted  
that Mr W had offered to pay 50% of the payments in a previous  correspondence.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W entered into a hire agreement with Alphabet  in 2016. He experienced issues  with the 
car and following a number of repair attempts  rejection of the car was accepted. A 
settlement was agreed and I find that reasonable. The outstanding issue in this case relates 
the payments  that fell due between  the date rejection was accepted and when the car was 
collected.
I note the comments made  by Alphabet  that the car wasnt investigated in February 2019 to 
confirm the issued regarding the dashboard lights. However, as I set out in my provisional 
decision, I wouldnt have  expected this to happen.  The rejection of the car had been 
accepted by this time and so I wouldnt have  expected either party to carry out further  
inspection into issues at this time.  I have  therefore  relied on Mr Ws testimony regarding the 
issues and given this, along with the other  evidence in this case  about  the issues he had 
previously experienced,  I accept his comments that he felt unsafe to drive the car from this 
point.
Alphabet has also noted  the mileage Mr W had covered. I can see that at the point  of 
collection Mr W had used a significant  amount  of his mileage  allowance.  Alphabet  has noted 
that it didnt apply an excess mileage charge. While I understand the point being made, I 
have considered the use Mr W was able to make of the car in the period between  rejection 
being accepted and the collection of the car. I understand the delay  was in part due to the 
need to retain his cherished number plate  but I do not find it fair that he pays  for a period of 
time when  he felt he couldnt  drive the car due to safety concerns. 
Alphabet has also set out the mileage covered between January 2019 and when the car was 
collected. I appreciate  this is high when considering Mr Ws comments  that he wasnt  able to 
drive the car from 22 February. However Mr W has provided an explanation for this and 
based on his evidence through this complaint and without further evidence to show 
otherwise I accept his comment that he didnt drive the car from 22 February.
Alphabet has said that Mr W made  an offer to pay 50% of the outstanding rentals. However 
my decision  is that Mr W should be liable for the rentals for the time he still had use of the 
car, that is until 22 February.  This means  he is liable for some payments  after the rejection 
date. Given the circumstances of this complaint  I think this is the fairest resolution.
Ref: DRN27852564My final decision  
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Alphabet (GB)  Limited should (as it has 
agreed and was accepted  by Mr W):
refund  Mr W £1,140.55 + VAT as a refund  of the initial  rentals on a pro-rata basis;  
and
pay Mr W £250.00 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
This is additional to Alphabet having covered  the early termination  costs, one monthly rental,  
DVLA cherished number  plate retention fee and the administration cost for processing  the 
cherished number  plate retention.
This refund can then be reduced by rental payments due to the 22 February 2019. All 
payments beyond this date should be waived.
Alphabet should  also remove any adverse information regarding this issue  form Mr Ws 
credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2785256