K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1995. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Mrs D says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
background
I sent Mrs D and FICL a provisional decision saying I didnt intend to uphold  the complaint. I 
said Id consider anything else Mrs D or FICL  wanted to give me by 7 June 2019. I havent 
received anything new from FICL or Mrs D.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Mrs D took the PPI at the same time as she took out her card in a shop. I think Mrs Ds card 
application form likely had information on it to make Mrs D aware the PPI was optional  and 
she chose to take it. And there isnt enough to persuade me Mrs D was pressured into this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI as something that was right for Mrs Ds circumstances. So 
FICL didnt  have to check the PPI was right for Mrs D. But it did have to make sure Mrs D 
got the information she needed to decide  whether  or not the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think Mrs D chose to take the cover, so it looks to me like she wanted  this type of 
cover. And from what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any 
of the limits  on or exclusions to the cover   so it wouldve been useful to her if something 
went wrong. Also it was affordable cover. And having thought about all Mrs D has said about 
her job security, work  sick pay and financial situation, I still think the PPI was potentially  of 
use to her. So, with all this in mind, I dont think better information about the PPI wouldve 
changed Mrs Ds decision to take it.
Im grateful  to Mrs D for the prompt and detailed responses shes  given to all our inquiries. 
Ive reconsidered  all Mrs Ds points. Im still not persuaded I should  uphold the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22452972
Ref: DRN2245297