K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) led him to believe that he 
had repaid one of his loans  when he hadnt.  It also spelt  his name incorrectly  in two emails 
and he was concerned that Satsuma didnt issue him with a final response letter. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
March 2020. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision,  so I will not 
repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  Mr W has told us he doesnt 
have anything further to add. Provident  didnt respond to the provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence they wanted me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings that I outlined in my provisional decision. 
In summary,  Satsuma made an error  when  it led Mr W to believe that one of his loans had 
been closed  when it wasnt. I didnt think that the award for trouble and upset was fair or 
reasonable and so I recommended that Satsuma increase pays £120 directly  to Mr W. 
putting things right
So I think a fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint is for Satsuma to do the 
following;
Reduce Mr Ws balance by £30  this reflects that no repayments were made by 
Mr W between  January and March 2018  as he believed  the account  had been  closed 
and 
Pay directly to Mr W £120 for the trouble  and upset  caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Provident Personal Credit Limited  should put things right for Mr W as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN24807332EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr W says Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma) led him to believe that he had 
repaid one of his loans  when he hadnt. It also spelt his name incorrectly  in two emails and he was 
concerned that Satsuma  didnt issue him with a final response letter. 
background
Mr W believed following  receipt of an email that he didnt owe Satsuma any more  money. However, 
around two months  later Mr W received  a statement of account  which showed  that he owed Satsuma 
an amount of £612.80.
Following a complaint, Satsuma issued a final response letter (FRL). Firstly, Mr W says as part of the 
complaint process, he received two emails that spelt his name incorrectly, and secondly he says that 
he never received  the FRL which was sent by post.  
One of our adjudicators  reviewed the case and accepted  what Satsuma  had told us  that a clerical 
error was the reason why incorrect  information  was provided to Mr W about the balance of his 
account. She thought the offer made by Satsuma of a total of £50 (£30 to go towards the balance of 
the account and £20 directly to Mr W) was a reasonable resolution to the complaint. 
Mr W didnt  agree that the offer was fair, and he wants the balance written  off. In response,  he made 
several points  including;
the amount  offered is not proportionate to the distress that he has suffered
Mr W says the complaint  lasted  longer  than the 8 weeks permitted by the FCA and the delay 
in issuing  the FRL prolonged his distress
No explanation as been provided as to how the clerical error  occurred and
Satsuma hasnt acknowledged Mr Ws mental health  issues and given the way they dealt with 
the complaint this caused him further distress.
 
As no agreement could  be reached  the case has been  passed  to me for a decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  thought  about  everything I dont think the settlement offer 
Satsuma has made to put things right is fair or reasonable  and I think it needs to do more. Ive 
explained why below.   
statement and emails
Mr W received  an email  from Satsuma  with an attachment, dated 10 January 2018. This letter  is in 
relation to loan account  ending 1603. In the first paragraph of the letter I can see it says We can also 
confirm that the account is now closed with no outstanding balance. Within this letter there was a 
loan table which provided a history of Mr Ws repayments history, which  showed an outstanding  
balance on 5 January 2018 of £612.80. 
Mr W has told us that he had a recent  irresponsible lending complaint and thought  these statements 
were in relation to that. But, given the content of the attachment I dont think  it was unreasonable of 
Mr W to have believed, at this point in time that he didnt owe Satsuma any more money. But what  I 
would point out, is that the statement for account 1603 did contain contradictory information   but this 
all stems from an error by Satsuma. 
Ref: DRN24807333Then on 28 March  2018 Satsuma sent Mr W a statement  of account  for account  1603 (Mr W says that 
this wasnt  received until April 2018)   in this statement  it showed an outstanding  balance  of £612.80. 
I accept that now Mr W wouldve been understandably concerned about what he had received,  
because he believed that he didnt owe Satsuma any more money.  
Afterall, as Ive said it wasnt unreasonable  for him to believe  that he didnt  owe Satsuma any more  
money. He says that he believed the March 2018  statement to be incorrect -again not an 
unreasonable position to take and I can see that Mr W contacted Satsuma  on 10 April 2018 in order 
to find out what was going  on. 
Following this contact  Mr W received a couple of emails from Satsuma, in both of which his name was 
spelt incorrectly. This is clearly an error on the part of Satsuma   it isnt clear  how this happened, but 
its most  likely  been caused  by a clerical error. However,  the consequence of this was that Mr W lost 
confidence in Satsumas  ability to investigate his complaint in a competent manner. And Mr W says 
this further  caused frustration with the whole  process,  and I can understand why that would  be the 
case. 
Satsuma says the final response letter that it issued  on 22 June 2018 was posted to
Mr W. The FRL said, 1603,  which showed a balance of £612.80. The correspondence issued was 
correct and your claim  for us to adhere to a balance of £0.00 is not upheld.
Ive thought about this statement, and I dont think this accurately  reflects what happened here. Mr W 
received an email attachment which  said there was no balance and then received a statement  around 
two months later. And I think it is fair to say, that the statement in the FRL doesnt actually reflect  what  
happened here. While Mr W may owe the £612.80, he was clearly  told in the January  email that his 
account balance  was zero and he didnt owe any more  money. But the FRL doesnt seem to deal with 
the apparent error  that occurred. Mr W says this caused him distress. 
However, following this services involvement  Satsuma accepted that the January 2018 email 
statement was sent as a result of a clerical error. I know Mr W wants  to know how and why this error 
occurred, but I dont  think  we will ever know exactly what happened, other then this was clearly sent 
in error.  Although, Satsuma has also told us, and that the email attachment  for account  1603 
shouldnt have been sent. Equally, given  what Mr W has told us, Im satisfied  that this caused 
considerable distress and a loss expectation.  That he was led to believe he didnt  owe any money  to 
then be told some two months that there was an outstanding balance, was clearly upsetting and 
worrying for him. 
receipt of FRL
Mr W emailed Satsuma  on 17 July 2018 because he was chasing for a response to the complaint  
which he had made in April. Satsuma then provided  a copy of the FRL by email and Mr W says that 
he has some  concerns that this wasnt issued, mainly  because up until this point the communication 
has been via email and yet the FRL was posted.
I appreciate that Mr W says this FRL wasnt received, but Satsuma says it was posted,  and the letter 
is correctly addressed. The only reasonable conclusion  I can draw is that something happened while 
the letter  was in transit. I appreciate, this isnt the response that Mr W was hoping for, but, I cant 
reasonably draw any other conclusion about the FRL. There is no evidence to suggest  that it wasnt 
sent. 
Satsuma says it cant explain why the FRL was sent via post  but it does say that once it was made 
aware that Mr W hadnt received a copy it sent an email copy. To me this suggests  that the FRL 
couldve been  sent to Mr W via email when  it was first issued. Again, given that Satsuma already 
knew this just caused  further  delays to resolve this matter and increased  Mr Ws concern that his 
complaint wasnt be investigated. 
Ref: DRN24807334It is clear the FRL was issued late, as it shouldve been issued at the start of June not on 
22 June 2018. However, Satsuma has since told this service that it sent emails  on 4 June 2018 to tell 
Mr W, he could refer his complaint to this service, and then it says it sent another  email on 15 June 
2018 telling him the complaint was still ongoing. 
But given that Satsuma  was aware of Mr Ws mental health problems it clear that this delay wouldve 
caused further  distress  to Mr W and reinforced  to him that the complaint wasnt being taken  seriously. 
Afterall Satsuma had already failed to spell his name correctly on two previous occasions. 
So, given the reasons  Ive outlined above, Im satisfied Satsuma has made errors firstly, with sending 
an incorrect  statement and secondly in the manner it dealt with Mr Ws complaint which  has caused 
his trouble and upset.   
Putting things right  for Mr W
Ive considered that Mr W says in order to resolve  the complaint Satsuma  should honour the wording 
in the attachment  this would have the effect of Satsuma writing off £612.80. Ive thought carefully 
about this point,  but in this case, I dont agree the proposed action is proportionate or reasonable. 
To be clear,  our approach  at this service is not to make incorrect  statements  (i.e. that, Mr W did not 
owe Satsuma money) true. And indeed,  to ask Satsuma to remove Mr Ws liability for the balance in 
this case  would, be disproportionate considering the errors that have been made  and the effect of 
those errors on Mr W. 
What I need to decide  is the impact of Satsuma mistake on Mr W, and how that should be put right.  
So, in this instance, Im satisfied that there has been a loss of expectation. That being, Mr W 
reasonably believed that he didnt owe Satsuma any money,  only to find out that he did. It also seems 
to have taken Satsuma some time to conclude that something went wrong here.  
But Satsuma has recognised that something went wrong  and has offered Mr W a total of £50 to put 
things right. It says this reflects the three months that Mr W didnt make his agreed repayments  to 
Satsuma as part of his repayment plan - it also offered  an additional  £20 for any trouble caused to Mr 
W  this would be paid directly to him. 
Taking everything into account, including what Ive said above, I dont consider  this amount to be 
sufficient to reflect  the distress and upset as well as the amount  of time that Mr W has spent dealing 
with this matter.
 
I will start by saying that Satsumas offer to reduce  Mr Ws balance by £30  to reflect the three 
missed payments is reasonable in the circumstances. However, the offer of £20 to reflect  the trouble  
and upset and time Mr W has spent dealing with this matter. In my view, £20 does not reflect the 
problems with the statement  of account,  mis-spelling his name and concerns about the delays in 
dealing with his complaint  Satsumas award needs to be considerably  higher. 
Ref: DRN2480733