K820x#14complaint
Ms Fs unhappy that HSBC UK Bank  Plc didnt set up a standing order  on her account  as 
instructed. 
background
Ms F says she went into a HSBC branch and spent an hour or so setting up the payment. 
But three months later she found out it hadnt been  set up or made. She says this caused  
her to be in arrears and she had to pay the outstanding amount in a lump sum which caused 
her hardship, distress and inconvenience. She doesnt think  the £150  compensation HSBC 
has offered is enough. Shes asked for £400.  
HSBC acknowledged  inconvenience had been caused by the branch not creating the 
payment as requested. It felt the £150  compensation  it had credited to Ms Fs account  was 
fair. And it wouldnt increase this to £400 as requested.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said HSBC  had made  an error but 
it has given Ms F a letter to pass onto the recipient of the payment to show  she wasnt  to 
blame for the mistake and missed  payments. Itd also paid her £150  compensation which  was 
fair. HSBC has acted fairly in resolving the complaint and he cant  ask it to pay anything  more.
Ms F remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  She says £150 isnt 
enough compensation for HSBCs failure to follow procedures, compliance and due diligence 
issues and for not complying with her instructions after she spent a lengthy  time in the 
branch. She didnt  want the letter HSBC sent.  A payment of £350 compensation would be a 
reasonable gesture.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms Fs frustration that, after spending  some time in the branch, her standing 
order wasnt then set up. But this is simple mistake  by HSBC which it has acknowledged.
I realise Ms F was caused some distress  and inconvenience by HSBCs mistake.  But we 
arent a regulator  and cant fine or punish  it for what has happened.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I agree with the 
investigator that HSBC  has taken  reasonable steps  to put things  right. And its payment of 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Ms Fs been  caused is fair in this 
case. And although  I understand her strength of feeling I dont think I can reasonably ask 
HSBC to pay her any more as shed  like.
Ref: DRN25471852my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2547185