K820x#14complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society debited her account with payments to a 
business that she didnt authorise.
background
Ms B has a credit card with Nationwide. In August  2018, someone fraudulently used the 
details of her card to set up a monthly subscription  service with a third-party  merchant.
Ms B wasnt a customer  of that merchant and so contacted Nationwide to notify them  that 
the transaction was unauthorised. Nationwide refunded the payment. It also blocked  Ms Bs 
card and issued her a new one with a different card number. Unfortunately,  the third party  
business was able to debit her account  the following month.
Nationwide said her updated card details were  provided to the third party by the operator of 
the payment scheme. It said that:
if a merchant contacts [the payment scheme]  confirming they have an agreement  
with a customer, [the payment scheme] can provide new card details to the 
merchant.
Nationwide said it didnt  think  it had done  anything wrong, but it accepted that Ms B had 
suffered some inconvenience  as a result of the scenario. It offered her £50 in recognition  of 
that inconvenience.
Ms B said Nationwide told her that it couldnt guarantee that the merchant wouldnt attempt 
to debit her account  in future and that she should  monitor her account closely in case that 
were to happen. She didnt think that this was a satisfactory resolution to her complaint so 
she referred the complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators  looked into complaint but didnt uphold  it. She said that Nationwide 
had refunded the payment promptly once  it became  apparent  that it was unauthorised.  It 
also applied  a block to reduce the likelihood of the merchant debiting  her  account in future.
Ms B disagreed with the investigators opinion. She said Nationwide  had a duty to protect 
her from fraud so long as she took appropriate  measures  to protect the security  of her card. 
Because Ms B disagreed with the investigators  opinion, the complaint has been passed  to 
me to issue  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
It wasnt Nationwide that shared  Ms Bs account details with the merchant  it was the 
operator of the payment scheme. The payment  scheme  operates  a service  which  
automatically provides  merchants with up to date card details. Unfortunately, theres no way 
for an individual customer to opt out of this service.
Ref: DRN22563022However, the relevant rules say that if a customer tells the business in advance they dont 
authorise a payment being made, the card provider ought to take reasonable steps to stop it. 
It wouldnt generally be acceptable for it to tell the customer  to monitor their account to see if 
there are repeated transactions in the future. Ive considered carefully whether Nationwide  
has taken reasonable steps to meet this obligation and Im satisfied that it has.
It told me it applied a block on 18 September 2018  and that this block uses  both the 
merchants name and account details as identifiers. Its a theoretical  possibility that the 
merchant could change  its name  or open  up new accounts if it wanted to find a way around  
the block. But the likelihood of that seems very low, particularly since its not in the 
merchants interest to attempt to collect  the payment.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Nationwide has done anything wrong here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2256302