K821x#15complaint
Mrs Q says Elevate Credit International Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about seven loans Sunny provided  to Mrs Q between April 2018 and March  
2019. Mrs Qs borrowing history is set out on the table below:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 13/04/2018 27/09/2018  6 £500.00 £149.95
2 06/07/2018 30/08/2018  6 £50.00 £165.70
3 25/08/2018 25/10/2018  6 £150.00 £199.95
4 27/09/2018 25/04/2019  6 £500.00 £216.67
5 30/10/2018 30/05/2019  6 £350.00 £282.37
6 06/03/2019 30/05/2019  6 £100.00 £313.85
7 30/03/2019 Written off  6 £250.00 £395.86
Mrs Q says she had to borrow  from other payday loan companies to make ends meet.  She 
told us she had several loans from different companies at the same  time and was in financial 
difficulty as a result. 
Sunny didnt uphold Mrs Qs complaint. It said the robust checks  it carried out for each loan 
application evidenced that the loans were affordable. It did however, offer to write  off Mrs Qs 
outstanding balance on her account  of £159.75 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Qs complaint. She thought loans 4-7 shouldnt  have been given. 
Sunny did not agree  with the adjudicators view but said it had revised the matter and offered 
to uphold the complaint from loan 5 onwards and to repay £373.35 in full and final 
settlement. Mrs Q did not reply and as the parties havent reached agreement  the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs Q could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
Ref: DRN29817372the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mrs Q could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Qs complaint.  Having done  that I agree with our 
adjudicator that loans  4-7 shouldnt have been given. I will explain why.
I think it was reasonable  for Sunny to do the checks it did early in the relationship. And Mrs 
Q didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about these loans. I think these checks were 
proportionate for loans  1-3 so I cant say it was unfair of Sunny to give loans 1-3.
But when Sunny gave Mrs Q loan 4 I think it should have done more  to check  her financial 
circumstances more  thoroughly. If it had I think its likely that Sunny would have been alerted 
to the fact Mrs Q was likely having problems managing  money. I can see from her credit  
check that she had several outstanding short-term loans with other lenders and Mrs Q still 
hadnt repaid loan 3 when she took out loan 4. And when Sunny gave Mrs Q loan 5, she 
hadnt repaid loan 4 and she still had other debts with other short-term lenders. So for both 
these loans, I think it was probably unlikely Mrs Q could sustainably  afford  to repay  them.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs Q, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Qs case, I think  that this point was reached by 
loan 6. I say this because:
Ref: DRN29817373At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mrs Q was not managing  to repay  her 
loans sustainably. Mrs Q had taken  out six loans within  just under eleven  months  and 
Mrs Q had been indebted to Sunny for all that time with no gaps. So Sunny ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mrs Q was having  to borrow  further to cover 
the hole repaying  her previous loan was leaving in her finances  and that Mrs Qs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mrs Qs first loan was for £500.00  and loan 6 was for £100.00 but whilst it was for a 
smaller amount, at that time Mrs Q still hadnt  repaid loans 4 and 5 which resulted in 
her having to repay the most she had paid since the start of her lending relationship 
with Sunny. At this point Sunny ought to have known that Mrs Q was not likely 
borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in their income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mrs Q wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan  7 was 
taken out eleven  months  after Mrs Qs first. And although this time it was for £250.00, 
which was half the amount  she took out when she took out loan 1, by the time she 
took out loan 7 she still had loans 4,5 and 6 outstanding. So, in reality her 
repayments were for a much larger sum. Mrs Q had paid large  amounts of interest  to, 
in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
I think that Mrs Q lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Qs indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mrs Q borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mrs Qs ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 4 and 5 and loans 6 and 7 and Sunny 
should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny shouldnt have given Mrs Q loans 4-7.
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back  if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Sunny is not able to buy the debts back, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made by Mrs Q towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance,  not including  anything 
Sunny has already refunded.
B) Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by Mrs Q 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs Q originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Sunny should  remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mrs Q as though they had been 
Ref: DRN29817374repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mrs Q having made 
overpayments then Sunny should  refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any principal Sunny has 
already written-off.  If this results in a surplus, then the surplus  should  be paid to Mrs Q.
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Sunny should  try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mrs Q. Sunny shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of 
principal Sunny have  already written-off.  
E) Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  recorded on Mrs Qs credit file in relation 
to loans 4 and 5. The overall pattern of Mrs Qs borrowing for loans 6 and 7 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so Sunny should remove these loans  entirely 
from Mrs Qs credit  file. Sunny do not have to remove loan 7 from Mrs Qs credit  file until it 
has been repaid,  but Sunny should still remove any adverse information recorded  about this 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct  tax from this interest. Sunny should give 
Mrs Q a certificate showing  how much tax Sunny has deducted,  if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Qs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2981737