K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about the poor service  she got from esure Insurance Limited after she 
contacted it to make a change to her motor  insurance policy.
background
On 12 February 2019 Mrs B went online to get a quote to add a new car to her policy.  An 
online message  said shed get the quote  first thing the next day. At 10am Mrs B contacted  
one of esures advisors via its online chat service.  She said the quote hadnt  arrived.  The 
advisor processed it and Mrs B asked what the new monthly premium would be. The advisor  
told Mrs B what the overall  increase in premium would be, not the monthly sum. She said it 
would be spread over Mrs Bs remaining instalments. Mrs B later said she couldnt see the 
new monthly payments  online for at least 48 hours, so she was unaware of what they were.
Mrs B was also unhappy that the advisor  didnt put forward a complaint she made  during  the 
chat. She said the advisor refused to look at her online account to see whether a quote had 
generated and she also failed to give Mrs B a policy number on request. Mrs B also noted 
that another  part of the business was offering a slightly lower  premium. 
esure said had the quote arrived before Mrs B contacted esure, she would still have had to 
contact it to complete  the change. It said the small difference  in premium between it and the 
other quote was due to Mrs B having  made  two changes to the policy during the year.  It said 
the advisor had told Mrs B how much it would cost to add the new car. It accepted that she 
didnt put forward  Mrs Bs complaint or provide  the policy number.  It said Mrs B could have 
asked again for that information  during the chat, but it offered her £50 compensation to try to 
resolve the matter.  esure also said Mrs B could  cancel the policy, and it would refund the 
£26 increase. But it said there would be a cancellation charge of £60. 
Mrs B said the policy had been  mis-sold,  as the advisor had failed  to check that she was 
happy with the increased  premium. She said the customer relations  advisor who dealt with 
her complaint had tried to cover up esures  wrong  doing. A manager reviewed the complaint 
and thought it had been handled reasonably, so Mrs B complained to this service. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mrs Bs complaint.  He thought  esure had acted 
reasonably. Mrs B didnt  accept the investigators view,  so it was passed  to me for review.          
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mrs B may have  thought the online message about a quote  being sent to her 
first thing the next day meant it would arrive before 10am. So I understand that she would 
have been disappointed when that didnt happen. But I dont think the absence  of a quote at 
that point was much of a detriment to Mrs B. She would have had to contact esure  anyway in 
order to accept the quote - although  she may have been able to do so slightly  earlier.
It seems  from the file notes and from esures comments that initially, the advisor wasnt able 
to reply to Mrs Bs query about the monthly  premium  increase. She didnt yet have all the 
new vehicles details  and still had to establish what  model the car was. After  that, the advisor 
said the total increase would be £26. I think Mrs B could  have  reminded  the advisor at that 
Ref: DRN26523502point that it was crucial  for her to know exactly what each  monthly  payment would be. But 
Mrs Bs response was Thats o.k.. So I think it was reasonable  for the advisor to assume 
that Mrs B was content with the increase that shed just been  told about. 
Mrs B says she cant afford the monthly  premiums.  She says shes  stuck  with the policy  
given that it would cost £60 to cancel it. But in my opinion, although the advisor  didnt reply  
to Mrs Bs exact query,  Mrs B was made aware of the extra sum shed have to find over the 
remaining period.  And I think  Mrs B could have re-stated her precise query at the time.
esure accepts that the advisor didnt  give the policy number to Mrs B as requested.  But I 
dont think that oversight  would have had much  impact, as the policy  number hadnt  
changed. And I think Mrs B could  simply have asked for it again later in the chat. esure also 
accepts that the advisor should  have  put Mrs Bs complaint forward. I can see that she did 
offer to do so. When she asked Mrs B later if she still wanted  the complaint to be raised, she 
said shed be writing  to the Chief Executive. I think that could have caused confusion. Mrs B 
also wasnt happy that during the chat she had to check her online account  herself. But the 
advisor didnt refuse to check it - she said she couldnt see it at the time.    
I think the overall service  Mrs B got could  have been somewhat better, but esure  tried to put 
matters right by offering  £50. I think thats in line with the level of compensation we are likely 
to have suggested had esure not already done  so. I cant see anything to show that it tried to 
cover up any errors, as Mrs B has suggested. I also think its offer to refund the £26 extra  
charge should  Mrs B want to cancel the policy was reasonable.  Mrs B thinks a £60 
cancelation charge is excessive,  but we regard cancellation charges of up to £75 as fair.  
Theres no doubt that Mrs B was very distressed by everything that happened,  so I know  
shes bound  to be unhappy with my decision. But taking everything  into account, I dont think  
it would  be fair and reasonable to uphold  her complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 
26 October 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2652350