K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Covea Insurance plc declined his claim for water damage to his 
property. 
Mr C is being represented on this complaint by his wife. 
background
Mrs C explained that in December 2017,  there  was bad weather in their area throughout the 
month. And on 27 December 2017,  she discovered  water leaking from their bathroom ceiling 
from various areas of the room. Mrs C said the entire  bathroom  floor was flooded. Mr and 
Mrs C subsequently  arranged for a roofer  to attend and fix their roof.   
Mrs C said she originally logged the claim with Covea on 31 December 2017. But she had to 
contact them  again in March 2018  because she hadnt heard from them. Mrs C then 
informed Covea that her underfloor  heating  in the bathroom hadnt worked when she tried to 
switch it on. 
Covea sent its agent  to investigate. And on the back of its agents findings it declined  the 
claim. Coveas agent reported that the damage  to the roof was consistent  with wear and tear 
and the repairs  were maintenance related. She said there  was cracking to the grout  in all 
areas of the bathroom floor and if the grout had been in a good condition, the water would 
not have affected  the under floor heating. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C didnt accept our investigators findings,  
so the complaint was passed to me to review. 
I issued a provisional decision on 30 April 2019, the findings from which Ive copied here in 
italics:
Ive checked Mr Cs home  insurance policy to see which insured events may be relevant to 
his claim.    
storm or flood 
The policy doesnt  define storm. We consider that a storm is characterised  by violent  winds, 
usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. But, for example, heavy  or persistent rain, hail or 
snow does not in itself constitute a storm, unless of extreme or unusual  intensity. 
I have looked  at the weather records from around the time Mrs C noticed the water leaking 
into the bathroom. I am not satisfied that storm conditions prevailed.  There  was certainly  
some inclement weather (i.e. the kind of weather we would normally expect in this country 
around that time of year).  But the policy does not cover general poor weather; it has to be 
storm.
Ref: DRN21348492The policy doesnt  define flood. We consider that a flood  is characterised  by a build-up of 
water caused by a natural event, such as a river bursting its banks.  Ive seen that there was 
water persistently dripping into Mr Cs bathroom. But Im not persuaded it was a flood.
accidental damage  (AD)  
The policy details summary supplied to us by Covea shows that Mr C has AD cover. This is 
defined in his policy as  An unintentional  and unexpected one off incident  that causes 
damage to your buildings  or contents. 
That definition could  fit with the circumstances of the claim. But in this section of the policy, 
Covea doesnt  cover water coming  into the home irrespective of how this may have occurred 
(other than the weather/water  based perils  in the buildings section of the policy).  
the roof 
We typically find that where a roof has suffered storm damage, the damage is more  often 
than not isolated to one area of the roof. Yet here Mr Cs builder carried out various repairs  
to the roof. This suggests to me the roof was likely suffering from general wear and tear. And 
this is excluded under Mr Cs policy. 
the bathroom 
Ive seen photos of the bathroom floor and there  are a number of areas  where 
grouting/sealant is missing. Coveas  agent said and I accept that if the grout  had been  in a 
good condition,  the water would not have affected  the under floor heating.  Im not persuaded 
that the grouting/sealant is missing because  of the water dripping through the bathroom 
ceiling.  
Finally, I note that Covea  has paid Mr C £150 because  its service fell short. I am satisfied 
this is a fair and reasonable payment .  
Mrs C responded to the provisional decision. She said the decision Id made  and the opinion 
our investigator reached, seemed to contradict each other. But she didnt elaborate as to 
why. Mrs C did indicate that she may respond  further to the provisional  decision. We 
followed this up with Mrs C; however she did not provide any further response.  
Covea did not respond to the provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I set out my findings  in a bit more  detail in my provisional decision. But I did reach the same 
overall outcome  as our investigator, in that I did not uphold the complaint.  
With that in mind, I do not believe  there  is any contradiction between us. And Mrs C hasnt  
explained why she may disagree with my findings.  
So my decision on the complaint remains  unchanged. 
Ref: DRN21348493my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Covea Insurance  Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.  
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2134849