K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Street (UK) Limited  entered a default on his credit record and wont 
remove it even if he pays off the debt.
background
Mr K took out a loan for £7,250 over a 60 month  term with Street  in 2015. The monthly  
repayments were successfully taken by direct debit for the first six months  but in 2016,  a 
direct debit failed. When Street  contacted Mr K about it, he made  a reduced payment two 
weeks later.  The next month the direct  debit failed again. Mr K agreed to make the 
contractual payment and clear all the arrears, but that payment  failed too.
Mr K then contacted Street to tell them he was in financial  difficulties and Street agreed to a 
four month payment  arrangement where  hed only pay £10 a month before starting  to pay 
the contractual amount.  Mr K made  the agreed  payments for several months  before the 
direct debit failed again.  Street issued a default  notice  and Mr K then agreed another 
repayment plan to prevent the default.  But when payment failed again after a couple of 
months, Street applied  the default to the account and this was recorded on Mr Ks credit  file.
In early 2019 Mr K contacted Street to ask it to remove  the default  from his credit file if he 
cleared the balance. But Street said it couldnt  remove the default because it had been 
applied correctly. So Mr K complained  to this service. Our investigator didnt think Street  had 
done anything  wrong. So Mr K asked for review  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen, I dont think the 
complaint should  be upheld  and Ill explain why.
Businesses are obliged to make  sure the information they provide to credit  reference 
agencies is accurate. The default  was correctly recorded after Mr K failed to make his 
contractual payments over several  months.  So it is an accurate reflection of the way Mr K 
managed his account. Once a default  is recorded, it remains  on a credit  file for six years 
from the date of the default. This means that, if Mr K settles his debt, the debt will appear as 
settled on his credit file but the default will not be removed. 
I realise this will be a disappointment for Mr K and I sympathise with the issues hes had 
because of the default. But I dont  think Street  has done anything  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Ref: DRN29022152Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2902215