K820x#14complaint
Ms E complains  that Aviva Insurance Limited declined her travel insurance claim and said 
she had tried to maximise  her claim.  My references to Aviva  include its agents.
background
Ms E has travel insurance through a bank account. She made  a claim for a lost or stolen bag 
containing a play station, a tablet and jewellery  set while  she was on holiday visiting family.
Ms E told Aviva that the items were in a bag and when she left the train she realised the bag 
was missing. She went back to the train but couldnt find the bag.
Aviva had concerns  about the claim and had an interview call with Ms E. After the call it 
declined her claim. 
Aviva said Ms E told it she had bought  the play station  on the day of the incident,  
4 September 2018, but the receipt  showed  she had bought the item on 31 August  2018. 
Aviva wasnt  satisfied  the play station was in the bag when the bag went missing.  It said any 
genuine loss Ms E had had been increased  by the addition of the play station  to maximise 
any financial  settlement.  It also referred Ms E to the fraud conditions in the policy.
Ms E complained to us. She said she had the play station with her on 4 September as she 
had picked it up from her nieces house. She did so because she was going to get her 
jewellery fixed, then go to her sister then travel home. She said the person she spoke to at 
Aviva didnt listen to her when she explained  what happened.
Our investigator listened to the calls between Ms E and Aviva  when  she made the claim and 
when she was interviewed. Ms E had told Aviva  on several occasions the play station was 
bought the day of the incident. Our investigator  thought Aviva  fairly declined the claim.
Ms E disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether Aviva dealt  with the claim fairly  and reasonably.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Ive listened to the calls when Ms E made the claim and the interview call with Aviva. Our 
investigators opinion  letter  gives the key details  of what  was said. In brief,  Ms E told Aviva 
several times that she had bought the play station on the day of the incident, 4 September. 
When Aviva  queried about  there being  a different date on the receipt Ms E said she picked  
up the play station  from her nieces house before going on her trip. But that wasnt  what she 
had said before.
Ref: DRN21739032Ive heard no evidence to support Ms Es suggestion  that Avivas  representative  didnt listen 
to her explanation or that he twisted her words. She clearly said she bought  the play station 
on the day of the incident.
I think Aviva  could reasonably understand there were inconsistencies in Ms E's claim.
It reasonably said it wasnt satisfied the play station  was in the bag at the time it went
missing so Ms E wasnt entitled to claim for it. Thats what  Aviva meant about maximising  
her claim.
The policy says:
Claims Fraud  If your claim is in any way dishonest or exaggerated we will not pay any 
benefit under this policy and we may cancel your policy  immediately and backdate the 
cancellation to the date of the fraudulent claim. We may also take legal action against you.
As Aviva reasonably thought the claim was exaggerated it doesnt need  to pay any part of 
the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2173903