K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains Santander Cards UK Limited  allowed  her ex-husband to make a fraudulent  
claim in relation to one of her accounts.   She  would  like to know  how this was allowed to 
happen.
background
In June 2018, Mrs T received a letter from Santander informing her that she was entitled to a 
PPI refund  of just over £30.  This was for an account which  Mrs T had previously held  but 
she hadnt applied  for the refund.
When she contacted  Santander, it transpired  that the her ex-husband had made the 
application in her name and whilst  he had provided all of Mrs Ts details on the complaint 
form, he had provided  his own bank account  details for the payment  of the refund.
So, Mrs T complained and wanted  to know how this had happened  and why Santander had 
not carried out further checks.
In December 2018, Santander  wrote  its final response letter to Mrs T where  it offered to pay 
the PPI refund to her correct account   now totalling  just over £31  and a goodwill gesture 
of £50 for the inconvenience caused.
Mrs T was not happy with that response and brought  the complaint to this service.  She 
asked to be given  details of how Santander allowed  this fraud  to happen  and what  checks  it 
had carried out.
Our investigator looked into matters for her.  She explained to Mrs T that this service did not 
have jurisdiction over the procedures which  Santander had in place in terms of fraud 
prevention.  Our role was to look at whether  it had done anything wrong and whether it had 
dealt with Mrs Ts complaint fairly.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  it would be 
fair or reasonable  of me to ask Santander  to do anymore here.
Mrs T is right  Santander  did do something wrong in accepting  a complaint about PPI on 
her account  from an ex-husband.  It then paid the refund into an account which  was not in 
Mrs Ts name.   That was also wrong.
But once it was alerted to its mistake,  it rectified  the situation by paying Mrs T what was 
rightfully her compensation  along  with £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I think it has dealt with Mrs T fairly.   Its not for this service to question whether Santander 
has appropriate fraud checks in place  thats something for the regulator to look into.  And 
its also not a matter for us to ask whether Santander intends to pursue Mrs Ts ex-husband 
for the refund it has inadvertently paid to him.  That really is a matter for Santander.
Ref: DRN24804052So, considering the circumstances of this complaint, I think  Santander has treated Mrs T 
fairly and I wont be asking that it does anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2480405