K822xcomplaint
Mr Fs complained that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC refused to pay his 
mechanical breakdown  insurance policy claim.
background 
Mr F contacted Amtrust  after noticing a vibration from the steering wheel. He said Amtrust 
told him to take it to one of its approved garages. Mr F said the garage wasnt able to do it 
the first time hed booked it in so he had to return a few days later. The garage  said the rear 
brake caliper  had seized  and caused  damage  to the brake discs  and pads. Mr F claimed on 
his policy.
Amtrust said seizures happen gradually  and that meant the fault didnt meet the definition  of 
sudden mechanical  failure. So it turned down Mr Fs claim as it said it wasnt covered by the 
policy. 
Mr F didnt  think  that was fair. He said hed had his car serviced the previous month and 
nothing had been picked up. He said Amtrusts  garage  then told him the caliper was partially 
seized.
Amtrust still thought it was right to turn down Mr Fs claim. It said Mr F hadnt called for 
roadside assistance to recover  his car and drove it to the garage which  showed  it didnt need 
immediate repair. 
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Fs complaint on 15 November 2018 where  I explained 
what Amtrust  needed to do to put things right. In the decision I said:
Mr Fs policy covers  him for the sudden mechanical breakdown of all parts except those  
specifically named as being excluded. Calipers are covered. Brake  frictional  material  is 
specifically excluded. 
The policy defines  breakdown as the sudden or unexpected failure  of a component arising  
from permanent mechanical  or electrical  failure  (other than through  wear or tear, normal 
deterioration or negligence) causing a sudden stoppage of its function, necessitating 
immediate repair or replacement of the component before normal  operation can be 
resumed.
Ive thought about whether a seizure should  be considered  a breakdown  as defined in the 
policy. And I think it would  be fair and reasonable to describe it as one. Amtrust said a 
seizure is something which happens  over time and has provided a very detailed explanation  
of how a seizure occurs. But the garage didnt say how it had seized. And when considering 
the ordinary everyday meaning of a seizure,  I think its reasonable to define it as something 
thats stopped moving. 
Mr F said his car had been  serviced  the month  before and no damage  had been  noted. He 
also said he took the car into the garage  as soon as he noticed something was wrong.  Im 
persuaded by what hes said. So while there may have been some build-up  or wear over 
time I think the calipers failed suddenly and unexpectedly.
Amtrust said the part hadnt failed as Mr F was able to drive it into the garage.  The caliper 
needed immediate  replacement before the car would work properly again. Im therefore 
Ref: DRN23551032persuaded the car wasnt working as it should because the caliper had failed  and needed 
replacing. 
For these reasons I think it would be fair and reasonable to say the calipers failure meets  
the definition of sudden mechanical failure. So Amtrust should pay the claim for the caliper in 
line with the limits and excesses on the policy. Due to the time Mr Fs been  without  the 
money it should add interest at 8% simple per year from the date of the claim to the date it 
makes payment. 
I understand Mr Fs claim  also included the brake pads  and discs which  arent covered under 
the policy. So Ive considered whether they should be covered on a fair and reasonable 
basis. Mr F said Amtrust  had advised him to take his car to its garage.  Even though the car 
was technically drivable  it would seem sensible for Amtrust to have advised Mr F that he 
might need  to get his car recovered to the garage to avoid causing further damage.  But I 
havent seen enough to persuade me that the damage to the pads and discs were solely 
caused by the two additional journeys. So Im not going to ask Amtrust to compensate Mr F 
for that. 
I understand Mr F would  also like his premium  refunded. But hes had the benefit of cover as 
I agree  his claim should be paid. If Mr F thinks his policy has been  mis-sold it would need to 
be considered  separately against the business  who sold him the policy. 
Mr F accepted my findings but Amtrust didnt. It said it had shown how seizures  happen so 
didnt think the definition Id applied to it was right. It asked  me to reconsider my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my original  findings.
Amtrust gave a detailed  explanation of how a caliper could seize over time. It said the caliper 
would stop moving  if it suffered a sudden  failure and that it not working was the symptom 
rather than the cause. I accept it not working  is the symptom of it seizing. And while the 
cause of a seizure  could  build up over time, at the point the caliper seized  I think its fair and 
reasonable to say its suffered a sudden mechanical failure, as covered by the policy.  Mr F 
also wasnt previously aware  of any problems with the caliper  and called Amtrust as soon  as 
he noticed any problems.
So I think its fair and reasonable to find the seizure  caused a sudden and unexpected  
stoppage of its function to the extent that it needed immediate repair  or replacement  before it 
would operate  normally  again. For that reason it would be fair and reasonable for Amtrust to 
pay Mr Fs claim for the caliper in line with any limits  or excesses on the policy.  Due to the 
time Mr Fs been without  that money Amtrust  should  also add 8% simple  interest.  
Mr F has lost the original invoice but has provided  a replacement invoice from his garage  to 
say he paid for the repairs in February  2017.  The invoice doesnt give the exact  date of 
payment and Mr F is reluctant to keep  asking his garage for information.  Amtrust turned 
down Mr Fs claim  on 30 January and I think its fair to say he would have needed to have 
his repairs done  quickly to enable him to use his car. For that reason I think  it would be fair 
and reasonable for Amtrust to apply interest from 1 February 2017  to the date it makes  
payment. 
Ref: DRN23551033my final decision
My final decision that I uphold this complaint and require Amtrust International Underwriters 
DAC to pay Mr Fs claim for the brake caliper, in line with any limits  and excesses on his 
policy. Amtrust  should interest  to that amount  at 8% simple per year from 1 February 2017 to 
the date it makes payment1. 
Amtrust should pay this within 28 days of us telling it Mr Fs accepted my final decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If Amtrust  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2355103