K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complained that Highway Insurance Company Limited  charged  him too much  when
he cancelled  his specialist  vehicle insurance  policy.
background
Mr B bought a policy for his motorhome to start on 1 September 2017. After selling his 
motorhome a few weeks later he asked his broker to cancel the policy. The broker said Mr B 
was due a refund of £6 of the £217.21  hed paid for the policy. Mr B didnt think this was 
enough and complained to his broker. The broker said it would increase the refund to 
£88.84. It said the insurer  had refunded £105.03  of the premium and it had deducted some 
other charges.
Mr B didnt think this was right and brought his complaint to our service. While we were 
looking into things Highway recalculated his refund and refunded a total of £147.04 to the 
broker. It said this was based on a refund of 70% of the premium in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Mr B said hed be happy with this refund but he hadnt been  given 
this by the broker.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 February  2019  where  I explained why 
I wasnt going to ask Highway to pay anything  else. In that decision I said:
I can see Mr B is unhappy with his overall refund from the broker. As the broker  and insurer  
are separate businesses  I cant comment on both of their actions in this decision. In this 
decision I can only consider what Highway  and not the broker   might  or might not have 
done wrong. That means I can consider  whether the £147.04  the insurer refunded  to the 
broker is fair and reasonable, but not the sales process, administration  or any of the 
additional charges added  by the broker. That would need to be dealt with separately.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Bs policy say if he cancels the policy within  the first month
Highway will refund 70% of his premium. This means the cost of the policy  is weighted  
towards the beginning rather than being equally spread across  the year. I can understand
Mr Bs frustration  at not receiving a pro rata refund and where a policyholder cancels  their 
policy without making a claim Id usually  expect the insurer to provide a pro rata refund.
However there are some exceptions to this. And that includes where  the insurer  can show  
the risk of the cover its offering is loaded towards short periods of the policy.
Id expect any premium charged  to be proportionate  to the risk Highway covers. Highway 
has explained that these policies are for specialist  vehicles that are usually only used for 
short periods  of the year. And its designed the policy so its premiums  and refund reflects  
that the insured vehicles are more  at risk for a short period. In these particular circumstances
I accept Highways reasons. So Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for it to charge short 
term rates and Im not going  to ask it to give Mr B a pro rata refund.
Highway said its premium  for the policy was £210.06 which didnt include any broker fees. I 
think it would  have  been helpful if Highway  had given  the broker  the correct calculation 
earlier. But Im satisfied  this was an error and its now put that right and issued the correct 
refund of £147.04  to the broker, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.  Any 
charges deducted  from this amount  by the broker would need to be considered separately 
against the broker.
Ref: DRN20806442I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr B was hoping for but its likely Ill find Highway has 
provided a fair and reasonable  refund in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Highway accepted my provisional decision however Mr B provided further comments.  He 
didnt feel Id addressed the rationale  of the issue as a whole as his complaint also 
concerned his broker.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration as there are two businesses involved in the refund  of his 
policy. However in this decision I can only make a finding about what Highway  the insurer 
 might or might not have  done wrong and not anything done by the broker. I understand   
Mr Bs complaint against the broker has been dealt with separately  by our service.  
However while I appreciate Mr Bs frustration, that doesnt  mean  Ive seen  anything  to 
persuade me Highway  has done  anything wrong  in the amount its refunded  to the broker. 
So Im not going to depart from my provisional findings and Im not going to ask Highway  to 
pay anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN2080644