K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-led regarding the amount he would pay if he cancelled  the 
hire purchase agreement (HPA) he entered into with Volkswagen  Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited (VWFS).
background
Mr S entered into HPA with VWFS in March 2018  to acquire a new car. He says he was told 
by the dealer to take out the HPA as he would then get a deposit discount. He says he did 
this even though he could  have  paid for the car using his own funds. 
Mr S says he was told he would need  to pay the first instalment under the HPA to get the 
discount but then he could cancel  the HPA and only pay interest up to that date.  Mr S 
contacted VWFS after making  the first payment  and says he was told that as the 14 day 
cancellation period had passed he would need  to pay an extra 56 days  interest.  Mr S says 
that he wasnt told up front about  the additional interest that would  be charged due to the 
HPA being settled early  rather  than him withdrawing  from the HPA.
VWFS says that Mr S confirmed that he had read or been provided with an explanation of 
the right to withdraw  and had signed the adequate explanation document. It says its 
retailers are advised  there  is no penalty  for exercising the right to withdraw. It says there is 
no evidence to show Mr S was provided with incorrect information at the point of supply.
VWFS set out how the interest was calculated in its final response and says that Mr S 
received a deposit contribution of £3,000  and a free servicing plan.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that Mr S signed  the pre-contractual 
explanations checklist saying that he understood about withdrawing early  and settling  early.  
She said that he had chosen to take out the HPA and settle this early and there  wasnt 
enough evidence  to say he had been  misinformed.
Mr S didnt accept our adjudicators view. He reiterated that he was persuaded to take out 
the HPA in order to get the deposit contribution. He said he was provided  with pre-contract 
information and he questioned this to understand how to cancel the HPA at the earliest  
opportunity. He reiterated that he was told he would need to make  the first payment and then 
could cancel the HPA and would  only incur interest up to the date of cancellation. 
Mr S says that he wouldnt have been  charged the extra interest had he withdrawn from the 
HPA within  14 days and that he understands the deposit contribution couldnt have been 
withdrawn as suggested.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says that he only entered into the HPA because he was told he would benefit from a 
deposit contribution.  Mr S contacted VWFS  a month after entering into the HPA to request a 
settlement amount. He settled the HPA at this time.  Based  on this I accept Mr S comments 
that he could have acquired  the car using his own funds and that he only entered into the 
HPA because of the financial incentive offered.  
Ref: DRN27362562Mr S benefited from the deposit contribution however he complains that it wasnt  explained 
to him that additional interest would  be charged  in the event  of an early  settlement versus a 
withdrawal from the HPA. He has also said that he was told he would  lose the deposit 
contribution if he cancelled the HPA before the first payment. There was also some 
confusion regarding the type of agreement he had.
I have looked  through  the agreement provided and signed by Mr S and while I appreciate  his 
comments about the type of agreement changing, it is clear that he entered  into a HPA and 
that this had a term of four years.
In regard to the amount VWFS  charged  for interest  when Mr S requested to settle his 
agreement early, I can see this has been explained  in the final response  letter.  As Mr S 
asked to settle the HPA early, VWFS  charged  interest in line with the relevant guidelines and 
so I cannot say it has done anything wrong in this regard.
The outstanding issue is whether Mr S was given incorrect advice which  persuaded him to 
enter into the HPA.  Under the section  56 of the Consumer Credit Act, 1974 a credit  provider 
can in certain circumstances be held liable for information provided by the dealer before the 
agreement is entered  into.
In this case Mr S has said he was told that he would receive  a contribution  if he entered into 
the HPA rather than buying the car outright.  This was what  persuaded him to entered into 
the HPA and as this happened I cannot  say a misrepresentation happened in regard to this. 
I accept that Mr S wished  to cancel the HPA as soon as possible.  I cannot say what Mr S 
was told about  when he could cancel the HPA but I can see that he signed  the pre-
contractual explanations checklist. This says explanations have been provided on both the 
right to withdraw and on how interest will be charged  if the agreement  is settled early. So I 
cannot say that Mr S wasnt  provided with the information he needed before entering into the 
HPA.
I appreciate that Mr S may not have been provided  with the service he should  have by the 
dealer. However  in this case I do not find that I have enough to say that the HPA was 
misrepresented to him. Because  of this I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.  
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2736256