K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains about the advice he received from REX Financial Services LLP to transfer 
his personal pension to a Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP) which he thinks wasnt  in 
his best interests . 
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in some  detail  in my provisional decision 
issued earlier in July 2020, a copy of which is attached to and forms part of this decision.  
In summary  I upheld the complaint as I didnt think the advice given by REX was in Mr Cs 
best interests. So I set out what I thought REX Financial Services LLP should do to put 
things right. The findings were shared with both parties who were  invited to comment.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr C accepted the findings,  although he was unhappy at being required to pay the SIPP 
providers exit penalties  if he decided to transfer  his pension  savings  again,  in line with his 
new financial  advisors recommendations.
REX did not reply to the findings  and didnt respond  when we chased. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered  the complaint afresh, including Mr Cs comments  about having to pay 
the platforms exit fees, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision.
So I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require REX to put matters right as follows:
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. 
I think Mr C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what  he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr C's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should REX do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, REX must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark  shown.  If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
REX should  add interest as set out below.
Ref: DRN20022262If there is a loss, REX should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation  and any interest.  The amount  paid should allow for the 
effect of charges  and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If REX is unable to pay the compensation into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
Pay Mr C £250 for the anxiety  he experienced  over the security of his pension 
savings and the lack of communication from REX.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If REX deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much has been  taken off. REX should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investm
ent 
namestatu
sbenchmark from 
(start 
date)to 
(end 
date)additional interest
SIPP still 
existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investme
ntdate of 
my final 
decisio
n8% simple per year 
from date of final 
decision  to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is not 
paid within 28 days of 
the business being  
notified of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual transfer  value payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
Ref: DRN20022263FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr C's circumstances  and risk attitude.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
REX Financial Services LLP should  put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20022264Copy  of provisional decision issued 8 July 2020
In June 2018  Mr C was advised  by REX to move his personal pension savings of around £233,000  
from Provider R to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  with Provider F. REX said this would 
give him access to a wider range of funds through the Cornhill investment platform. The transfer 
took place in August 2018.
 In 2019 Mr C was told due to issues with their FCA permissions Provider  F no longer dealt with REX,  
so as an orphaned client he needed to find a new IFA. His new IFA thought Mr C needed  to transfer 
his pension from R to benefit from a wider range of investment options and discretionary fund 
management. But he didnt support the advice to transfer to Provider F so recommended Mr C 
transfer again.  But having incurred  set up costs with Provider F of over £8,000,  hes discovered  doing 
so would  incur  significant  costs of almost £23,000, made up of unpaid establishment fees and exit 
penalties from the underlying funds. And as the value  of Mr Cs investment of £220,000 had fallen to 
around £211,000 he complained to REX.
REX didnt  uphold  his complaint saying  the cessation of business terms between itself and Provider  F 
hadnt directly  impacted  Mr C, either in relation to the suitability of the original advice or the 
appropriateness of the current arrangements. And the exit fees are only payable if Mr C decides to 
move his funds which REX hadnt advised him to do. Mr Cs financial circumstances are now more  
uncertain since his employer closed, increasing  his worries about his pension. 
Mr Cs initial contact with REX arose after he used a marketing tool to enquire about  improving the 
return on his pension. The advisor from REX was one of several who responded. The discussion took 
place by phone not face to face,  although  someone from REX did visit him to sort out some 
paperwork. 
Mr C says he considered  moving his pension from R to maximise investment growth  as he hoped to 
start taking benefits at age 62 when  his wife was able to access  her occupational pension.  He was 
under the impression  his existing  plan limited him to purchasing an annuity at retirement  and he 
wanted greater flexibility. I obtained some information about Mr Cs plan from R which shows  hed 
only started it in early  2017. The welcome  letter from May 2017 shows he transferred around 
£280,000, and his chosen retirement date was 2027 when hed be 65. It makes the assumption Mr C 
will take his income at retirement as an annuity (presumably as this is the safest way to ensure hed 
receive an income for life). But I dont think this means Mr C was obliged to purchase an annuity  if he 
chose not to. After taking  25% tax free cash (of just under £70,000)  the remainder was in what  R 
termed an Income Release plan, which  Mr C could  withdraw from as required.  The majority (64%) 
was invested in a global fund, with the remainder  invested  in a range of funds  including property, 
commodities, index linked,  bonds and gilts. The commencement illustration  has to disclose all 
charges, and this shows only an annual management  charge of 0.4% of the value of each fund (1% 
discounted by 0.6% based on the plan value). 
I dont have recordings of the call(s)  between Mr C and REX so I cant  be sure what was discussed. 
But from the written evidence I cant see that REX specifically told Mr C hed need to transfer his 
savings to avoid purchasing an annuity. And as its Financial Planning Report described Mr Cs plan 
with R as being RS-PP (Flexi-Access)  I think the advisor knew Mr Cs plan was already in drawdown, 
so he didnt need to transfer for that reason. 
Ive looked at the suitability report compiled by REX in June 2018 which recommended Mr C transfer 
his flexi-access pension with R to a SIPP with Provider F, which he could manage using Cornhills 
FlexMax Investment account. Staying with R but switching funds was discounted, as REX said it 
couldnt satisfy Mr Cs objective of maximising  flexibility in pre-retirement investment and post-
retirement income. 
The report recorded Mr Cs circumstances  at the time as being aged 56, married and in good health 
with a dependent child aged 17 and his main outgoing was a mortgage of £27,000 for which he paid 
Ref: DRN20022265£420 per month.  Mr C was employed earning £37,000 per year gross with savings of around £7,000. 
He had no definite plans  to retire but as the state pension  age is 67 the report  was based on 
retirement at age 65. Mr C says hes sure he mentioned wanting to start taking benefits  at 62 in line 
with his wife, but this isnt recorded in the report. And in the section Capacity  for Loss it reads  you 
have confirmed  that you are unlikely to access your benefits until age 65. 
Mr Cs attitude  to risk was recorded as 5/10 (medium)  which was explained as you would like to 
benefit from the potential of long-term returns from investment in equities..
some lower risk products  in order to achieve  a balanced  approach. You understand returns cannot be 
guaranteed and you accept  you might get back less than you put in, especially in the short  term.
The likely term of the investment was recorded as medium-term - more  than five years but less than 
ten years,  and at the time Mr C was nine years away from his recorded  retirement age of 65 (but only 
six years away from 62). 
Provider F was recommended as SIPP provider to allow  access to the widest range  of permissible  
SIPP investments through Cornhill,  which is based in Luxembourg but manages investments  
worldwide. REX said Cornhills  platform provides an investment account suitable for both regular 
savings and lump sum investments. Mr C was invested 35% in a conservative fund, 35% in a 
balanced growth fund, 14% in an international equity fund and 15% in cash. On the face of it this 
profile appears consistent  with Mr Cs attitude to risk. But it seems Mr Cs plan with R was invested in 
a range of funds including global and property  which would appear to broadly meet his risk profile 
also. 
Cornhills charges  were  explained in REXs report as 1% a year for the first 6 years, after which  
thered be no ongoing  platform  charges making  this investment ideal for the long-term investor (my 
emphasis). It warned You should be aware that investment in the Cornhill platform is considered  a 
long term investment and there may be penalties applied  in the early  years if you withdraw funds 
unexpectedly. And that if Mr C closed the platform account within the first 10 years he may be liable 
for outstanding establishment fees.  
Also set out in the report in addition to Cornhills fees, was REXs advice charge. Its standard advice 
fee is 4% but REX agreed to charge Mr C 3.5% of his fund value (£7,574) plus 1% per year for an 
annual client review.  And he had to pay Provider Fs initial set up charge of £250 + VAT and its 
ongoing charges of 0.5% min £200 max £400.  
But when Mr C made enquiries about moving his funds away from F, Cornhills  establishment charges  
were explained as 0.6% of his initial  deposit (of £220,000) charged annually for 10 years  rather than 
1% for 6 years. As at time of the enquiry  Mr C had paid no establishment fees, he was liable for the 
full ten years fees of £13,200 (£1,320 x 10). And in addition he was told about exit penalties of 6% of 
the underlying  funds  totalling  over £8,900,  which hadnt been set out in REXs  report. 
In any event, dont think Mr C, already aged 56 at the time of the advice, could be considered a long-
term investor. REX knew  he intended taking his benefits in nine years, (and hoped  to start as soon as 
six years according to Mr C). And REX had noted  he required an medium term investment. The report 
even acknowledges the charges seem somewhat expensive but balances this by saying the 
platform allows investment in the widest range  of funds which may otherwise be unavailable or too 
expensive. And it argued that a lower charged product may not provide good ongoing fund 
performance so  maturity values may be higher from a product  that charges more  but manages 
to produce better  growth.  The report does include a section  entitled Risk Warnings which  makes 
clear the investment has an element of risk, theres no guarantee it will outperform his existing plan 
and he may not receive back what was originally invested.  But I think  Mr C as an unsophisticated 
investor would  accept  REX was saying  he had to pay more in charges and take a few risks to get 
better returns. And this was Mr Cs aim to enable  him hopefully to retire  a few years  earlier than 
originally planned. But even if he didnt take his pension benefits until age 65 hed always have been 
liable to pay the full ten years worth of establishment fees, together with the advice  fee and set up 
Ref: DRN20022266costs, all of which were  considerably higher than he was paying with R. I dont think this was 
explained in clear  enough  terms to Mr C. 
So given the significant set up costs,  the higher  ongoing charges suited  to an investment  of ten years 
or more  and the exit penalties I dont think the transfer to a SIPP,  or this platform  was in Mr Cs best 
interests for his circumstances at the time. He was already invested in a plan which  broadly matched 
his attitude  to risk, but under which he could have switched between  funds to achieve  any more 
diversification that REX considered necessary for him at the time.  
So Im minded to uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN2002226