K820x#14complaint
Mr A and Mrs Z complain that TSB Bank Plc (TSB)  recorded entries on the National Hunter 
database against their names, which they discovered following a declined mortgage  
application.
background
Mr A and Mrs Z applied for a mortgage  with TSB in January  2018.  The application wasnt 
successful. Some time later Mr A and Mrs Z found  that TSB had recorded entries on the 
National Hunter database against their names.
In 2017, Mrs Z had been the victim of identity theft.  A third party opened a number of 
accounts in her name, including with TSB. TSB had added an entry  to the National Hunter 
database about the identity theft.  They discovered this entry  at the same  time.
Mr Z and Mrs A believe  TSB declined their application and added markers to the National  
Hunter database following their mortgage application due to the identity theft in 2017. They 
complained to TSB, saying they were  struggling  to obtain a mortgage  elsewhere. TSB said it 
thought the markers had been  added fairly.
Following our involvement, TSB initially said it would remove the markers added in 2017 
following the identity  theft. It then said it wouldnt. Our investigator thought it should remove  
the 2017 identity theft marker. But he thought it was reasonable that TSB had added the 
2018 markers, and for it not to remove them. Both parties disagreed  TSB wouldnt remove 
the 2017 entry, and Mr A and Mrs Z wanted both removed.  So the complaint has come  to 
me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it was reasonable  for TSB to add an entry to the National Hunter  database in 2017, 
regarding the identity theft Mrs Z experienced. I dont think  it was a record  that suggested  
there was a problem  with an application theyd made or anything about their accounts. Its 
designed to protect  Mrs Z, and financial businesses, if fraudsters  try to use her details again.  
However, it was added three years ago and  as far as we know   Mrs Z hasnt been a 
victim of identity fraud since.  Its clearly  a matter thats caused considerable upset and I think  
it would  be fair for TSB to remove it now  as it originally agreed to do.
Turning to the 2018 application, like all lenders, TSB considers information and evidence it 
receives in respect  of a mortgage application.  It carries out its standard  underwriting  checks 
to try to confirm the accuracy of what its told and to decide whether it wants  to lend. Its 
important to note that theres no obligation to lend  and theres no obligation  to give reasons 
for a refusal either.
When making a referral to the National Hunter database, TSB has to have  reasonable 
grounds to do so. It doesnt  have to disclose the detail of those reasons to Mr A and Mrs Z.
Ive looked at the information TSB received  in respect of this mortgage application. Ive also 
taken into account  the information  Mr A and Mrs Z have given us.
Ref: DRN25785752Having done so, I think TSB had reasonable concerns about the information it was given as 
part of the application following the checks  it carried  out. It was concerned that there  were  
inconsistencies between  the information Mr A and Mrs Z gave it, and the information it found 
out from its own underwriting  checks.  And it reached  the same conclusions  having reviewed 
the further information they gave when they complained. Having considered  the checks  TSB 
carried out as part of its underwriting process,  I dont think  its concerns were unreasonable.  
So, I cant say it acted  unreasonably in recording entries on the National Hunter database  
and I cant reasonably ask it to remove the entries  now.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I think  its fair and reasonable for 
TSB Bank plc to remove  the 2017  but not the 2018  entry.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2578575