K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains that Caversham Finance Limited,  trading as Brighthouse, wont  refund  
payments she made to her daughters account in error.
 
background
Ms Ws daughter took out finance with Brighthouse and made purchases whilst living  at 
home with Ms W. In December  2016 Ms Ws daughter left home and took the purchases  
with her.
Ms W received weekly text reminders from Brighthouse to make  payments. She thought that 
because her daughter  had purchased  the goods whilst living at her address she was liable 
for the debt. So she made payments when she received reminders. 
When Ms W experienced financial difficulties she spoke to advisors  who explained she 
wasnt liable for her daughters debt. So she complained to Brighthouse and asked for her 
money back. They told her that they could  not share details of her daughters account with 
her without her daughters  consent.
So Ms W referred her complaint to this service  where an ombudsman  explained that 
although Ms W wasnt the account  holder  she was an eligible complainant as the 
ombudsman was satisfied  Brighthouse  had attempted to recover  the debt from her by 
sending text messages  to her phone and not her daughters.
Our investigator considered the complaint  on its merits. He thought,  on balance, there was 
sufficient evidence to suggest that Ms W believed she was liable for the debts rather than 
her simply paying for them on her daughters behalf. He was persuaded this was the case  
because:
Brighthouse hadnt provided  an explanation about why Ms Ws telephone number 
had been added to the account and he thought they could  have  done  more to clarify  
it was the right number;
he was persuaded  by Ms Ws recollection of speaking to a store and being told the 
debt was her joint responsibility  as she was a joint tenant;
the requests  for payment were sent directly to her and this, he thought, would  
reinforce Ms Ws view she was liable.
So the investigator thought to put things right Brighthouse should  refund all payments Ms W 
had paid to the account since  her daughter left the property  in December 2016. He also 
thought it was clear  Ms W had been inconvenienced  by these matters and that Brighthouse 
should pay her £150  to compensate her for this.
Brighthouse didnt  agree with the investigator. They referred us to our dispute rules 3.3.4B 
(4) and said as there was more than one eligible complainant (Ms W and her daughter)  and 
the complaint  had been referred  without the consent  of the other,  we may consider it would 
seriously impair the effective operations of our service. They could  not see how theyd be 
able to comply with any direction given by this service  without  releasing  their customers 
payment history.  They  explained that the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) 
prevented them from doing that and they therefore suggested we should only consider the 
complaint if we had Ms Ws daughters permission. They went on to explain that they had no 
Ref: DRN24525592way of knowing which payments Ms W made voluntarily on her daughters behalf and which 
werent. They asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Brighthouse  so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Brighthouse say it would  not be right to consider the complaint without getting Ms Ws 
daughters consent  to share her account  details. DISP 3.3.4A (5) says we may dismiss a 
complaint without considering its merits if the ombudsman considers that dealing with such  a 
complaint would otherwise seriously impair the effective  operation  of the financial 
ombudsman service and DIPS 3.3.4B (4) suggests this may include if the complaint  
involves more than one eligible complainant and its been referred without  the consent of the 
other.
Im not persuaded that our operation would be seriously impaired by considering  the merits 
of this complaint  without  Ms Ws daughters consent. Payments made by Ms W can be 
distinguished without  sharing her daughters  account details or statements and I therefore 
think its possible to distinguish Ms Ws actions  from her daughters without  placing  
Brighthouse in a situation were theyd be at risk of breaching the GDPR.
So Ive thought about whether Ms W was led to believe she was liable for her daughters 
debt with Brighthouse and I think,  on balance, that she probably was.
I say that because:
Brighthouse contacted her on her mobile  phone  and asked  for payments. I think,  in 
those circumstances,  Ms W was likely to believe they had a right to do so;
theres not been a reasonable explanation provided by Brighthouse about why they 
would be using  Ms Ws number.  I agree that they could have taken more care to 
ensure the mobile  number they held was for their customer;
Ms W has explained that she became aware of the fact she may not be liable for the 
debt when she spoke  to advisors  after she began  to struggle financially. It seems  to 
me that she would  not have been likely  to be making voluntary payments towards her 
daughters debt if her financial situation was fragile. I think its more likely she thought  
she had to make the payments;
So I think its right that Brighthouse repay the money that Ms W has paid in error. Shes 
explained that when her daughter lived with her she did, on occasion, make  payments on 
her behalf.  So I think  the payments Brighthouse should  refund  are the ones made  by Ms W 
Ref: DRN24525593towards her daughters  debt since her daughter left home in December 2016.  Should 
Brighthouse not be able to clarify these payments Ms W may need to supply bank  
statements to Brighthouse and identify the payments that will need  to be returned.  They  
should also add 8% interest  to these payments as its clear  Ms W has been deprived of that 
money.
Id agree with the investigators view that Ms W has been distressed and inconvenienced by 
Brighthouse sending  demands straight to her. In the circumstances, I think Brighthouse  
should therefore pay her £150 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Caversham Finance Limited 
to:
refund  all payments  Ms W has made  to her daughters account since  December 
2016 and add 8% simple  interest  from the date of payment  to the date of settlement;
pay Ms W £150 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience their actions 
have caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2452559