K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) made a mistake when 
repaying a loan which led to him being  charged  by his loan provider. 
background
Mr B took out a loan with a third party for a car. Mr B no longer needed the loan so he 
attempted to repay it through Natwest in April 2017. Mr B says he first attempted  to repay  his 
loan over the phone with the loan provider using  his debit card but the transaction didnt go 
through. Mr B then went  into a branch to make a payment. But the teller behind  the counter  
made a mistake when  entering the payment details.  The same day Natwest returned the 
funds to Mr Bs account. 
Mr B then went  on holiday and noticed the payment in his account  upon his return. Mr B 
says this caused confusion and he didnt  know what the payment  was. He suspected it could 
be fraudulent so he transferred the money  to his ISA. Mr B contacted his loan provider to 
see if it could help.  Mr B then missed the deadline to repay his loan and was charged  £950. 
In 2018 Mr B complained to Natwest asking it to pay him the £950 and consider paying him 
compensation. Natwest looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt agree it should pay £950. It 
agreed it had made an error but it felt Mr B still should have paid his loan before the 
deadline. Natwest paid Mr B £150  compensation  for its error  and £5.40  for some phone  
calls. 
Mr B was unhappy with this offer so he asked this service to review his complaint. Our 
investigator said Mr B still had enough time to make  the payment to his loan provider  and the 
compensation offered by Natwest was fair. 
Mr B didnt agree. He says Natwest made a mistake and if it hadnt,  his loan would have 
been paid on time.  Mr B is unhappy  Natwest didnt investigate why the payment failed in 
branch, respond  to his letters, has not paid him the compensation for his phone  calls and 
that this has been a very stressful situation for him. Hes asked an ombudsman  to make a 
final decision  on this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. I know this will come as a disappointment for Mr B and he 
feels strongly about this matter. So Ill explain my reasons below. 
Im in no doubt Natwest made an error  in branch  when sending  the payment at Mr Bs 
request. So my role here is to decide whether the offer made by Natwest is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr B has told this service Natwest failed to investigate why the payment didnt go through  in 
the branch. Natwest has said it didnt  initially  think it made a mistake  when making  the 
payment. And I dont  think it would have been immediately clear that there had been a 
mistake. So I dont think it was unreasonable for the branch  not to investigate  further. The 
£6,000 payment was refunded to Mr Bs account on the same  day, so I dont think  Mr B has 
been disadvantaged by Natwest not investigating  the failed payment further. 
Ref: DRN22435532Mr B had 30 days to repay  the loan (by early May 2017) before he was charged.  Although  I 
can understand why Mr B was confused by this situation I agree with the investigator that he 
still had enough  time to repay his loan.  Ive seen the loan provider told Mr B by e-mail (in late 
April and early May 2017)  he still needed to pay £6,000.  Additionally Mr B confirmed by e-
mail to the loan provider  he would arrange  to pay the loan. And the loan provider gave Mr B 
a one week extension  to pay. Therefore Im satisfied Mr B had enough time to make the 
payment to the loan provider after the banks error  in the branch.  
I note Mr B has raised concerns over Natwest not responding to two of his complaint letters. 
From the information Ive seen Im satisfied Natwest didnt receive the letter  in 
November 2018.  Although  it did receive Mr Bs second letter in March 2019,  Natwest had 
already issued a final response (in September  2018)  telling Mr B to contact this service. So 
although it would have been helpful if Natwest had responded to the second letter,  Im 
satisfied Mr B hasnt been disadvantaged  by its failure to respond.
Mr B mentions he attempted to make a payment over the phone with the loan provider. But 
even though the payment  didnt go through Im satisfied Natwest has paid a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation of £150 for this complaint. I think this award  fairly 
reflects the level of its mistake and the impact this issue  has had on Mr B when taking into 
account all the circumstances. 
Ive also seen copies  of statements showing the £150 & £5.40  refunds to Mr Bs account. 
Therefore Im also satisfied these  have been  given  to him. Overall having considered this 
and all the evidence,  Im not asking NatWest to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Bs complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2243553