K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC passed  her personal information onto a third party  
after she asked them not to. 
background
Mrs H opened an account with Lloyds in branch. Mrs H said when she was asked about 
receiving information  about products and services  she told Lloyds her telephone number 
was not to be passed onto anyone.  Mrs H also said her phone number is withheld, ex-
directory and TPS for that reason.
In February 2019  Mrs H received a call from a third party company saying they were calling 
on behalf of Lloyds. Mrs H complained  to Lloyds and reported  a fraudulent call as she was 
concerned her details  werent secure. 
Lloyds investigated  Mrs Hs complaint and said the call was a customer  service complaints 
survey. Lloyds said they use a third party company to regularly conduct customer  
satisfaction surveys to help improve the service they provide. Lloyds also said that as the 
third party company is working  on their behalf they have ensured  all customers  details are 
secure in line with data protection  requirements.  Mrs H then referred her complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mrs Hs complaint and found the Mrs Hs account  was marked  to 
not receive marketing  calls and letters. Our investigator recommended  Mrs Hs complaint 
was upheld and asked Lloyds pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused. 
As Mrs H disagreed the complaint  has come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs H opened her account with Lloyds she agreed to the terms and conditions  of the 
account. The terms and conditions say Lloyds may use Mrs Hs information to contact her 
about products  and services that may be of be of interest to her. They  also say Mrs H can 
opt out of receiving this information  by letting Lloyds know. 
Lloyds said when Mrs H complained her marketing details were updated from telephone and 
post to not allowed. Ive also seen a copy of the personal details screen for Mrs H which  
shows all marketing preferences are turned off. Ive also seen Lloyds contacted the third 
party who called Mrs H, to have her number removed from any future customer  surveys. Im 
therefore satisfied  Lloyds have updated  their records  so Mrs H shouldnt receive any more  
marketing or customer surveys. 
The question here is whether Lloyds should have contacted  Mrs H in the first place. Lloyds 
said Mrs H received a survey call and not a marketing one, but I dont  think  that matters in 
this case. I say this because Lloyds have shown theyre able to stop survey calls as well as 
marketing ones, so while the calls maybe  different Lloyds have shown they able to stop 
them. 
Ref: DRN26177982When Mrs Hs account was opened  it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to check  her 
contact preferences. As Mrs Hs account  was opened in branch its possible the questions 
either werent asked,  or Mrs Hs answers werent  recorded correctly if she was asked about 
them. Mrs H said she was asked but said she didnt want her details passed onto any third 
parties. Im also persuaded by Mrs Hs testimony  that she would have told Lloyds she didnt 
want to be contacted. I say this because Mrs H explained her phone number is ex-directory, 
withheld and also a member of TPS. 
I therefore find it unlikely  Mrs H would  have agreed  to marketing or survey calls. Also in this 
particular case,  as Mrs H asked for her details to not be passed onto anyone I think they 
should have removed her from the customer surveys. As this wasnt  done  Lloyds  passed  her 
details on for a survey  against Mrs Hs request. By doing so Lloyds caused Mrs H 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience when she received this call. This was shown by 
Mrs H contacting Lloyds  to report a fraudulent call. Lloyds should  compensate  Mrs H for this 
by paying her £100 for the unnecessary  distress and inconvenience caused.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Lloyds 
Bank PLC needs to pay Mrs H £100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2617798