K821x#15complaint
Miss S is complaining that Monzo Bank  Ltd wont refund transactions  she didnt authorise. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont  repeat them  again  
here. Instead Ill recap the key points  and focus  on giving the reasons  for my decision:  
On 4 February 2019, Miss S registered as a candidate on an Au Pair website. Shortly 
after, she was contacted by Ms O, posing  as a mother of two who wanted to hire 
Miss S. She asked Miss S to complete a background check  on a website  she said it 
was connected  to the UK government and would cost £7.
On this website, Miss S was instructed to follow a link to a payment page.  She 
completed various pieces of information,  which she believed  would pay for the check. 
That day, four payments left Miss Ss account   totalling £1,895.00. I understand that 
£394.50 has since been recovered  from receiving banks. So, the total loss for which  
Miss S seeks compensation is £1,500.50.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss S isnt liable for 
payments that she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross  negligence or intent 
to comply with the terms of the account or keep  her personalised security details 
safe. 
It doesnt appear to be disputed that these payments  were  unauthorised. Indeed, 
Miss S didnt complete the agreed steps  for this type of payment to be made. 
Instead, it seems the fraudster re-registered Miss Ss mobile banking on another  
phone and made the payments  using information they convinced  her to share by 
presenting a fake background  check,  costing £7.  
Im also not satisfied Miss S gave permission for someone else to complete these 
steps on her behalf. She believed that by handing over her details, £7 would be taken 
from her account, as a pull payment. Thats different to the steps  the fraudster 
actually completed  here  re-registering  her mobile banking and completing several 
faster payments   so push  payments. It follows that Im satisfied the payments 
were unauthorised.  
I dont think Miss S failed with intent to keep her details safe  she genuinely  believed  
what she was doing was for a background check and its required payment. 
Im also not satisfied Miss S failed with gross negligence. The fraudster, Ms O, 
reached out through a legitimate Au Pair website,  so I think it was understandable 
that Miss S believed  she was talking with a potential employer. Ms O asked her to 
complete a background check via a link she provided  given she was supposedly 
being hired to look after two young children, I can see why this didnt seem unusual.
Ref: DRN26565152Miss S believed the website was connected to the UK government, given its govuk 
address and its branding. And she was reassured  by the padlock in the address bar, 
which like many  people, she thought was a symbol  of a websites legitimacy. The 
fraudsters had also used the name of a company  that legitimately carries out 
background checks as well as the name  of its genuine director.  Given the lengths the 
fraudster had gone to, I can see why Miss S was convinced   I think  lots of people  
wouldve been. Indeed, our services  experience of such cases  shows Miss S wasnt  
the only victim of this scam.  
To pay for the check, Miss S was taken to a separate payment page, where she 
inputted details like her card number  and PIN. Monzo highlight that Miss S knew,  or 
ought to have known, not to share her PIN. Its important  to reflect  on the 
circumstances of the scam here.  Miss S didnt think she was sharing her PIN with 
anyone. Instead, she believed it was part of the payment process. And in making  
payments, people do routinely share  sensitive  details,  including  their PIN.  
Im also mindful that, from our experience of dealing with other victims  of this scam, 
the payment page was made to look like it was connected to their bank. I think its 
likely that wouldve happened  here too, given how all the other details of the scam 
precisely match. 
So, I think Miss S was convincingly duped by the pretence of a small payment.  It 
follows that Im not convinced that by sharing her PIN, Miss S acted with such a 
significant degree of carelessness that she failed  with gross negligence.  
The fraudsters wouldve also required access to Miss Ss emails  so they could re-
register her mobile  banking to a new device. Its not clear how this happened. Miss S 
hasnt said she shared her password, and I note there are lot of ways it couldve 
been reset,  particularly  under the guise of collating information for a background 
check. Other victims of this scam have provided evidence  that show  instructions to 
put in numbers on their email  mobile application.  The fraudsters said this was to 
confirm their email  address, when it in fact reset their password. 
It follows that I think its likely  Miss S was cleverly deceived into allowing fraudsters  
access to her email (indeed, its not clear that Miss S has since realised  this 
happened). So, this doesnt change my mind about her level of negligence. 
Overall, this was cleverly designed scam,  with multiple  layers  designed to fool its 
victims. And it seemingly  targeted  those  in need  of a job, often  students,  who often 
were studying in the UK from abroad. Im not satisfied that being  fooled by this 
sophisticated operation meant that Miss Ss actions  fell so far below what  a 
reasonable person wouldve done  that she failed with gross negligence. 
So, I conclude that Miss S isnt liable for the transactions and Monzo need to put 
things right  by refunding Miss Ss losses from these unauthorised transactions 
alongside interest to compensate her for the time shes been  out of pocket.
Monzo say that according to its terms and conditions, it wont refund loses  which  
arent a direct result of its actions. But as per section 137 PSRs, its terms cant 
contract out of these  statutory requirements in a way thats less favourable to Miss S. 
Ref: DRN26565153It also points out that it wasnt a member of the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code. But thats to do with Authorised Push Payment (APP)  scams, so it wouldnt be 
relevant here. Ive also noted Monzos  point that its not required to refund losses  
from Faster Payments   but the PSRs apply to these  sorts of payments too.
Monzo gave Miss S £200 to recognize  the way it handled  things after she told it 
about what happened. And I think thats a fair reflection of Miss Ss distress  and 
inconvenience caused by Monzo  not sorting things out sooner. So I wont be making 
a further award  for non-financial losses. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Miss Ss complaint and I order Monzo Bank  to:
Pay Miss S the total of the unauthorised transactions  (£1,895.00),  less any amount 
already returned  (which  I understand  is £394.50). 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully  deductible).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2021.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2656515