K820x#14complaint
Miss D says Nationwide Building Society  removed the travel  insurance benefit from her 
FlexAccount without  informing her, causing her to travel without proper insurance 
unknowingly.
background
Miss D credited £750 to her FlexAccount every month in order to qualify for the free, 
European travel insurance  that came with the account. Miss D telephoned Nationwide in 
2018 to increase the cover and add another named party to the policy. It was at this point 
that she was told the travel insurance  had lapsed  on the account and could not be 
reinstated. Miss D complained that she wasnt aware of this and that she had therefore 
travelled without any insurance  in place.
Nationwide explained  that it sent Miss D insurance  declaration forms for her to complete and 
return. Because this wasnt completed, the insurance  lapsed  and was eventually removed 
from the account. Miss D refuted that any insurance  declarations were sent to her.
Our adjudicator investigated and was satisfied  that Nationwide did send the appropriate 
paperwork to Miss D, so she didnt uphold the complaint. Miss D maintained that she didnt 
receive any letters. Because an informal  agreement  couldnt be reached, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive carefully considered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The most important aspect of this complaint  is whether  Nationwide  sent Miss D the 
appropriate paperwork for her to sign and return in order  to set up the travel  insurance on 
her FlexAccount. Miss D maintains that she didnt receive anything, and on the face of it I 
have no reason to doubt what she says.
Nationwide has been able to send me a copy of a sample letter  that it sent to all its 
customers with a FlexAccount who hadnt  set up the travel insurance benefit.  This letter  
explained that the consumer hadnt  yet set up travel insurance and that if they wanted to do 
this, they needed to read and sign the enclosed declaration form and return  it within 30 days.  
Nationwide also sent me a screen shot of their internal  systems  showing that this letter  was 
sent to Miss Ds current address on 8 August 2016.  Their internal systems also show a 
similar letter  was sent a year later, on 7 August 2017 to her current  address. 
I can understand Miss Ds frustration  at not receiving the letters. But based on what  
Nationwide has sent me, Im satisfied that they sent the appropriate letters explaining how to 
set up travel insurance on the FlexAccount to the correct, active  address for Miss D. And I 
cant see that there were  any known  issues with Miss Ds address at the time that would stop 
the letter from reaching her. 
Nationwide made  the commercial decision  in October 2017  to remove  the travel  insurance 
benefit from the FlexAccount of any consumers who hadnt yet set it up as a benefit on their 
accounts. As Miss D didnt set up the travel insurance on her account by 31 October 2017, 
Ref: DRN29593752the travel  insurance  was permanently removed from her FlexAccount  as an optional  benefit 
in February 2018.  
Having carefully considered everything  available to me, I think it was reasonable for 
Nationwide to remove the travel insurance  as a benefit from Miss Ds account  and that it 
sent her appropriate  information on how to set the travel insurance. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2959375