K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that the new vehicle he acquired  on a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  was not of satisfactory quality. He wants to 
reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Mr P tells us that at the end of April 2018 he acquired a new vehicle through  a dealer Ill refer 
to as G. He says that shortly after collecting the vehicle he noticed several faults and wrote  
a recorded delivery  letter  to G, seeking  to reject  the vehicle. He says the faults identified 
included problems with the gears; paint damage; loud cup holder rattle; door fob not working  
and problems with the park assist display function. He says G was unhelpful and it wasnt  
until July 2018  that it took the vehicle in for repairs. Mr P states that after the vehicle was 
returned the problems were  still present  and so he again returned  the vehicle to G. He says 
that once again G failed  to do the required repairs.
In September  2018, Mr P says he arranged for the vehicle to be inspected by an 
independent vehicle inspection company Ill refer to as D. He says D confirmed  that the 
faults hed originally complained about  in May were still present. Despite this, Mr P says 
VWFS refused  to allow him to reject  the vehicle.
Since he complained  to this service, Mr P reports that the vehicle has continued to 
experience faults.  He says that since acquiring  the vehicle it has broken down six times and 
the transitioning  between  gears is still not satisfactory. And that on occasions the engine has 
shut down during use.
VWFS told us that G had repaired  the issues with the noise from a cup holder.  It said it (G) 
had not identified any other  areas  of concern. Based on this, VWFS informed us that it 
wasnt prepared to allow the vehicle to be rejected.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 September  2019. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint and that I thought Mr P should  be able to reject  the vehicle and end the 
agreement.
Since then both parties have replied. VWFS said the £1,000 deposit had been made to 
secure the vehicle  and had been  refunded to Mr P. So it wouldnt be looking to refund this 
amount again.  It made no other comment about the provisional decision. Mr P said he didnt 
agree with certain parts of it. In particular he thought he should be refunded  the cost of a 
gearbox oil change as he said this wasnt routine maintenance but arose from one of the 
faults. And he thought he should  receive the whole  of the scrappage  allowance  of £2,800
which had been  made against  the vehicle he surrendered.
I thank both parties for their replies.  Ive considered them carefully but save for not ordering 
the £1,000 to be returned Im not minded to change my provisional decision. Ill explain my 
reasons in my final decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN28571972Im sorry  Mr P has experienced a considerable amount of inconvenience with the 
performance of this vehicle. He no doubt thought that by acquiring a new vehicle he could 
look forward to an extended  period  of trouble free motoring. Sadly  this hasnt happened.
Mr Ps hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. VWFS  supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act of 
2015 (CRA).
Briefly summarised, the CRA requires that - in order to conform  to contract  - goods should  
be of satisfactory quality when supplied. As this was a new vehicle  Mr P was entitled to 
expect that it would be free from even minor defects when he took possession.
Where information is incomplete or contradictory  - as some  of it is here - I have to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. That is to say, I decide what is the most  likely 
explanation to account for whats happened. In trying to resolve complaints, we listen  to what  
the parties tell us, and we look to documentary  and other evidence  to help us reach a 
decision. Finally, and importantly, we look at what is fair and reasonable.
Mr P sent a recorded  delivery letter to G on 8 May 2018 which the tracking report  says was 
delivered the following day. I understand  G claims not to be aware of it - but Im entitled to 
conclude it was delivered. This letter  set out a number of faults which Mr P had identified  
with the vehicle and he asked to reject it.
The faults identified  included, but were  not limited to, complaints about a clunking from the 
gearbox; cup holder rattling; defect to the bonnet;  faults with the multimedia system muting 
system; the park assist system  not displaying on the screen and the key fob not always  
working.
For reasons that arent entirely clear, there was a delay until around  11 July when  the 
vehicle was returned to G. Work  was done  to alleviate the noise with the cup holder. I cant  
see anything to say that the other  issues raised by Mr P were  addressed.  And on 16 July he 
once again wrote a letter  to G and VWFS seeking  to reject the vehicle.
On 20 July Mr P returned the vehicle to G and Ive seen a warranty invoice dated 23 July 
which indicates more  work was done to the area of the cup holder.  On 26 July Mr P wrote a 
further letter to G and VWFS confirming  his wish to reject the vehicle and including a 
detailed claim as to other consequential losses he said hed incurred.
There are notes of various other contacts in the following weeks  between Mr P, G and 
VWFS. And its clear that Mr P was becoming increasingly frustrated at the refusal of VWFS 
to accept rejection  of the vehicle. So he arranged for an independent inspection  to be done.  
This was carried out by D on 6 September 2018.
Ds report details a number of faults with the vehicle. The inspector stated:
 I can confirm the vehicles remote fob is not operating the door locking;
 I can confirm the in-car entertainment mute function is not operating;
Ref: DRN28571973 I can confirm the bonnet  of the vehicle  has two paint imperfections  present near to O/S 
headlamp;
 I can confirm the TPWS warning lamp is illuminated on the vehicles  dash panel;
 I can confirm the vehicle dash display  is advising  "transmission not in park or neutral 
position" with the gear selector in the park position.
These faults are essentially the same as some of those which  Mr P complained about when 
he acquired the vehicle in May 2018.
As the vehicle had been returned to G on two occasions in July 2018  that seems  to me to 
have given it ample opportunity to identify and repair  any faults. Although Mr P had by then 
sought to reject the vehicle, Im going  to assume  that he was still open  to the possibility of 
retaining it if things could be sorted out. That is a reasonable inference to be drawn from him 
having accepted the vehicle back after repairs were reportedly completed. But given the 
faults remained - and having obtained  the report from D - he decided  to continue to seek 
rejection of the vehicle and the termination of the agreement.
In my opinion, the information supplied shows that many of the faults  which had been 
reported in May were  still present  in September. Mr P had allowed the opportunity  to have 
the vehicle repaired  and those repairs do not - with the exception  of the cup holder - appear 
to have been carried out. I dont  consider the apparent failure of G to identify the faults 
described in Ds report  to be a reasonable ground  for not making those repairs.  It was or 
ought reasonably  to have been  aware of the nature  of the faults about which Mr P was 
complaining. So at the very least Id expect  to see detailed  information  to show  all these 
items had been  examined individually and the result of such  an examination.
As this was a new vehicle  and the faults were identified almost immediately after supply, I 
can reasonably  infer they were present at the point of supply. This vehicle should have been 
free from even minor  defects. In these  circumstances  I can conclude  the vehicle was not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied and therefore that Mr P was entitled to exercise  the right 
to reject it.
Wed normally try to put a consumer back to the same position they were in before goods - 
which proved not to be of satisfactory  quality  - were supplied. But thats not always possible.
Although its probable the use of the vehicle has been impaired its still managed to cover 
substantial mileage. When D carried out its inspection, the mileage recorded  was 5,141. The 
latest information supplied by Mr P shows its mileage at 28 August 2019 to be 22,720. Its 
clear the vehicle has been used  extensively, so its fair and reasonable that this should  be 
reflected in any settlement.
Mr P has indicated  he thinks he should  recover most of the costs  that he incurred at the time 
he acquired the vehicle. And this includes the costs of some additional insurances, 
registration fee and vehicle excise duty. Some of the additional  items  which  Mr P purchased 
at the time he acquired the vehicle,  for example a service plan, were not part of the 
regulated credit agreement. So it doesnt  fall within  the jurisdiction of this service.
Other items such as the registration fee, damage  insurance and vehicle excise  duty would 
be incurred at the time the vehicle was used. And as Mr P has had use of the vehicle I think 
he should expect  to pay the cost of these items. I also think  the gearbox oil change, for 
Ref: DRN28571974which hes supplied an invoice, should be considered a maintenance cost which is to be 
expected as part of the overall running  costs. Ive now seen information which says that 
gearbox oil doesnt  have a service  interval as its part of a sealed unit. But that still doesnt 
show this cost arose directly from any fault with the vehicle  or that it rectified that fault.
Ive considered carefully the additional comments and evidence supplied by Mr P about the 
scrappage scheme.  But I dont propose to recommend  the refund of the £2,800 scrappage 
allowance. Its not the same  as a part-exchange where the price is likely to approximate  to 
the value of the goods being  exchanged. The nature of a scrappage  scheme is that any 
goods being surrendered  are likely to be of little or no value and are not going to be reused. 
Ive also got to take into account that - without the scrappage allowance  - the monthly 
repayments wouldve  been increased. The agreement was for three years so taking interest  
into account its likely the monthly payment would have been  around  £100 or so extra.  Mr P 
has estimated the value  of the vehicle  he surrendered as being between £1,710 - £1,890  at 
the time.  But this vehicle  would also have suffered depreciation during the period which the 
agreement has been running which is now around  18 months. Taking both these factors into 
account I think Mr P has had fair value for the vehicle he surrendered and it wouldnt be fair 
and reasonable to refund the scrappage allowance in addition  to allowing him to reject the 
vehicle.
In summary,  Im satisfied  the vehicle was not of satisfactory when supplied. It follows  that I 
think Mr P was entitled to seek to reject the vehicle in May 2018. And he was further  entitled  
to continue to seek to reject the vehicle when the faults which had been identified by D 
werent repaired. I also recognise  that whilst Mr P has obtained fair use from the vehicle this 
has been subject  to some degree  of impairment.  So I think  this should be reflected in a 
partial refund of the monthly  repayments.
Im aware Mr P isnt likely  to agree  with all parts of my final decision. And of course hes 
under no obligation to accept it. But Id respectfully point  out that my decision has to be 
accepted or rejected in its entirety. Its not possible to accept only individual  parts  of the 
decision. And if the decision is not accepted then its not binding on either  party. Regardless 
of whether its accepted or not, my final decision brings to an end the involvement of this 
service in this complaint.
Ref: DRN28571975my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
In order to settle matters,  I intend  to require Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) Limited  to 
take the following action:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  for Mr P to pay from the date of termination;
            This is subject to all payments due up to that date having  been made;
2.Allow Mr P to reject the vehicle;
3.Arrange for the vehicle to be collected at no cost to Mr P;
4.Refund £199 being the cost of Ds inspection  report;
5.Refund one monthly  payment to reflect impaired use;
6. Pay £300 for distress  and inconvenience;  and
7.Subject to all payments due under the agreement up to the date of termination being   
made, make arrangements for details  of the agreement to be removed from Mr Ps 
credit file.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to items 4 and 5 above from date 
of payment to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2857197