K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs  poor handling of her claim under  her motor 
insurance policy following  an accident  on her motorbike. 
background
Ms H had an accident on her motorbike  and claimed to AXA. She said when she reported  
this to AXA, she was referred to other  businesses to handle her claim and that she received 
poor service. Ms H complained to AXA that it had appointed third parties to deal with the 
claim and those businesses had treated her poorly. She said the claim had taken too long 
and she was unhappy about the decision to categorise her bike as a total loss and the 
valuation put on it. 
AXA responded that Ms Hs policy provided for third party, fire and theft cover only.  AXA told 
Ms H that damage to her motorbike wasnt covered under the policy  and it explained that 
she may be able to claim from the third party directly. AXA said it wasnt involved in the 
appointment of the third parties that handled  Ms Hs claim. AXA said its only involvement 
was in dealing  with the third partys claim against her. Ms H disagreed  and said her policy  
provided fully comprehensive  cover  and so should  have covered her losses  from the 
accident.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Ms Hs policy provided 
third party, fire and theft cover only and so Ms Hs claim  wasnt one that AXA needed to 
consider. The investigator  said that AXA hadnt appointed the third parties that handled  Ms 
Hs claim and had treated  her fairly.
Ms H disagreed with the investigator, saying that the detail of her complaints hadnt been  
properly investigated  and the investigation was biased towards  AXA. Ms H said AXA had 
passed her on to its claims management firm and had left her wide open to a legal claim 
from the third party. Ms H said there was bias against her from the parties involved due to 
her transgender identity and other personal medical  details she disclosed at the scene of the 
accident. Ms H requested  an ombudsman review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H complained that AXA hadnt considered her claim. Ive seen Ms Hs insurance policy 
and its clear that it only provides cover for third party, fire and theft. This means AXA didnt 
have to consider  Ms Hs claim as her losses and injury  werent  covered by her policy with 
AXA. 
AXA wrote to Ms H to say that the damage  to her bike wasnt covered by her policy  because  
she only held third party, fire and theft cover. AXA explained in its letter  that Ms H may be 
able to recover her losses  from the third party. Since  Ms H wasnt  claiming on her AXA 
policy, AXA wasnt in a position to take forward Ms Hs own claim. I think  AXA correctly 
referred Ms H to the third partys insurer so that she could claim directly  from it if she wished.
AXA said it received  a notification from the third-party insurers stating a claim had been 
made, and it asked Ms H to make contact to explain the incident. This is what  we would 
Ref: DRN22114442expect an insurer to do when told about  a claim. Ms H has said that she is unhappy with 
AXAs handling of the claim against  her. Ms Hs policy allows  AXA to decide how it will 
handle a claim and whether  to accept liability on Ms Hs behalf, with or without her 
agreement. AXA has now settled the third party claim against Ms H.
Ms H hasnt complained  to AXA about  its decision concerning liability  for the third partys 
claim against her, and the time it took to reach  its decision. It is open to Ms H to bring a 
complaint about  this to AXA if she wishes.
Ms H said that AXA had appointed third parties  that had handled her claim poorly and 
caused delays.  From the records Ive seen, including an email  from Ms H, AXA didnt 
appoint these businesses,  Ms H was referred  to them by her broker. In any event,  it would 
be unreasonable for AXA to refer Ms H to third parties to help with her claim as it wasnt in a 
position to take Ms Hs claim forward. I note that Ms H has brought complaints against three 
other businesses involved  in her claim. 
From what  Ive seen of AXAs handling  of the claims arising from Ms Hs accident and its 
communications with her, I think it has acted  in accordance with the terms of her policy and 
treated her fairly. I havent seen  anything to suggest  that AXAs staff have been  biased in 
their handling  of Ms Hs complaint because of her transgender identity. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision not to uphold  the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2211444