K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt tell him when they introduced  a 
Loyalty ISA, with better interest than the ISA he already had with them.  Mr S says he lost 
interest on his savings because of this.
Background
Mr S had an Instant ISA Saver account with Nationwide that he took out in 2016.
Mr S learned in April 2019 that Nationwide introduced a Loyalty ISA account in May 2018 
which offered better rates of interest than the account his money was in. He says that he 
qualified for a Loyalty  account and that he would have moved his money into that account 
straight away if hed known about  it. He said it was unfair that Nationwide  hadnt  let him 
know about the new account  and complained  to Nationwide  about the potential loss of 
interest.
Nationwide didnt uphold  Mr Ss account. Nationwide explained that staff in branches  arent  
allowed to tell members  about different products as that could be considered financial 
advice, which they dont offer. Nationwide pointed out that information about their savings 
products was available on their website and in the branch that Mr S used.
Mr S was not happy with this response and brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and thought that it should  be upheld  because 
of the Savings Promise Nationwide offered customers. She thought that Nationwide  should  
have kept Mr S informed  of better  alternative  savings products.  She decided  that Nationwide  
should pay Mr S the interest that he would  have earned on his savings had they been in the 
Loyalty ISA, and £100  compensation for the inconvenience he had been caused.
Mr S didnt agree, as he didnt think that £100 compensation was enough. Nationwide didnt 
agree because they did not think the decision  was fair. So this has been referred for an 
ombudsman decision.
My provisional findings
I reviewed all the evidence and arguments  in this case and requested additional information 
from Nationwide to understand what had happened  with regards their Price Promise.  I then 
came to a different  decision than our investigator, so issued the following provisional 
decision to let Mr S and Nationwide know my thoughts.
In my provisional decision I said:
When Mr S opened his Instant ISA he received  a letter from Nationwide  that told him about 
their Savings  Promise.  This said, well contact you every year to tell you know  about our 
range of savings  accounts and well also send you an annual  savings statement so you 
know what rate youre receiving. I think that the Savings Promise  gave  Mr S the expectation 
that he should be updated every  year about  Nationwides available  savings  options.  So I 
think it is fair to expect Nationwide to have done that.
Nationwide sent an annual statement for Mr Ss ISA in July 2018.  They have shown us what  
information was included at the back of that statement on a page headed can we help you 
Ref: DRN29679222get more from your savings. This lists a range  of savings products including the Loyalty ISA 
that Mr S says he should have been made aware  of. This is merely information about all 
savings accounts  available  at that time.  No specific  recommendations  were made to Mr S. I 
think this means that Nationwide provided Mr S with the information that they said they 
would. So I think he should  have known about the Loyalty ISA when he received that 
statement.
I have considered whether Nationwide should  have  done more  to regularly update Mr S 
about their products. Mr S had opted  out of receiving  marketing  information  from Nationwide. 
Because of this I think it would have been  unfair  if Nationwide had contacted  Mr S to inform 
him about their new products as they became available. I think this would have counted  as 
marketing and may have  breached Mr Ss privacy.  So, I think  that Nationwide  were right not 
to send Mr S more regular  product updates.
Mr S said that he could have been  informed of the loyalty ISA by staff in the branch that he 
regularly visited. Nationwide said that their staff dont offer financial advice. Given that this 
isnt a service they provide, I dont think that Nationwide had a responsibility to identify 
products that were  more suitable for Mr S. Nationwide have said that they included reference  
to their savings products  in store and Mr S has provided evidence that his branch did have 
that information although says it was small and not clear. It appears  that, as required by the 
relevant regulations (BCOBS 4.1), Mr S was able to find out the rates available on any of his 
branch visits, should he have  chosen to. I dont  think  Nationwide  treated Mr S unfairly in the 
way they chose to display  their savings products.
Response to my provisional decision
Nationwide had no further comments to make in response to my provisional decision.
In Mr Ss response he questions the fairness of my coming to a decision that was different to 
the opinion expressed by our investigator. Mr S says that he accepted the fact that our 
investigator upheld  his complaint regarding lost interest, and only disagreed with the amount 
of compensation  suggested. Mr S is of the opinion that my decision should have been limited  
to the question of the amount of compensation. He complains that he was not aware  that the 
original view of the investigator  could  be changed  and questioned  Nationwides reasons for 
requesting an ombudsmans decision. Mr S also felt that I hadnt considered the regulatory 
requirements of Nationwide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked  at all the things that Mr S has said in response,  but my decision remains 
unchanged. I know Mr S will be unhappy with this, but I will explain my reasons.
The financial  ombudsman service is the alternative  dispute resolution body for the financial 
sector. Our investigators work under delegated  authority  from an ombudsman. Their  role is 
to gather evidence they think will be relevant in a case, consider it and propose what  they 
think will be an appropriate outcome  ideally one agreeable to both sides.  Where the 
investigator is unable  to resolve  matters to the agreement  of the parties,  either side can ask 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN29679223It would be wrong for me to take the starting point for such  a review as being the conclusion 
reached by the investigator. Such an approach raises the prospect of procedural  unfairness. 
Rather, I need to review  all the evidence again in order to reach my own determination,  and 
 where appropriate  to assess what I consider suitable redress.  I appreciate Mr S prefers 
the outcome the investigator proposed, but I must  conduct my own review  not least 
because in any event  Nationwide  didnt agree with the investigators proposal.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I didnt think that Nationwide  had done anything  
wrong. Nothing in Mr Ss response has made me think that Nationwide hadnt  sent him the 
information they were  supposed to. I havent  been given any reason to doubt that the 
product information  Mr S says he needed wasnt available both on Nationwides website  and 
in the branch Mr S has shown he regularly attended. I understand and am sorry that Mr S 
hadnt seen these things, but I dont think it is fair or reasonable to conclude that Nationwide 
were to blame for that.
In my provisional decision I made specific reference to the relevant regulations. I said that I 
was satisfied that Nationwide had done  what was required of them  under  BCOBS  4.1. To 
expand on this, BCOBS is the Banking Conduct of Business  Sourcebook that can be found 
on the Financial Conduct  Authority website.  Section 4.1 says a business must provide or 
make available, appropriate information about a retail banking service,  in an appropriate 
medium, so a customer can make  decisions on an informed  basis. Within this it says a 
business must have  the interest rates on all their savings products available  on their website.  
I think that providing the information in branch, on their website, and on the statements Mr S 
was sent meant that Nationwide did what was required of them.
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint so wont  be asking  
Nationwide to do anything  to put things  right.
My final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2967922