K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Skrill Limited will not refund a payment he made with it to a third party  
trading site.
background
Mr H says he used Skrill to make  a payment of 563.70 USD on a third partys website. He 
says the third party didnt do what it said it would and hes suffered considerable losses as a 
result. He holds Skrill responsible. It said it would contact the third party  for clarification  but 
hasnt done so or refunded the money  he sent. He wants Skrill to refund his original deposit 
and other  losses.
Skrill said in its final response  that Mr H had agreed to its general  terms of use when  
opening his account. Under these its obligations are limited to providing Mr H with an 
electronic money  account and related payment services. It doesnt  endorse the goods or 
services provided by a Skrill  customer or intermediary. Mr Hs relationship  with the third party  
would also be subject  to that merchants terms and conditions. Mr H had used his Skrill 
account as a funding option  when making  payment to the third party.  It instantly processed 
the payment in line with his authorisation and instructions.  Mr H continued using his Skrill 
account after this to pay and receive  money  from the third party. It will not compensate him 
for the payment he is now disputing. Skrill has fulfilled its obligations as a payment 
processor. Mr H should contact the third party.  
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Skrill says it told Mr H it couldnt get involved in his dispute  with the third party. Even  
so it tried to assist by contacting the third party but it got no reply.
Skrills terms and conditions say it will not be liable for any indirect or consequential 
losses. And that its obligation  is limited to providing an electronic money account and 
related services. It doesnt endorse any service  provided by another customer or 
intermediary. 
Skrills website  says if a service isnt received to contact it. But this isnt a guarantee 
it can help or that it will refund a payment made.  
Ultimately  she cant  hold Skrill responsible for the dispute Mr H has with the third 
party. She can understand  Mr Hs disappointment  that Skrill wasnt able to assist him. 
But its applied its terms and conditions fairly. It hasnt done  anything wrong in 
relation to the payment  he complains  about.
Mr H doesnt agree and remains  unhappy. In summary he says he regarded  the third party  
to be reliable as it was registered with Skrill. Furthermore Skrills website clearly says it can 
assist. Its unacceptable  for it to say it contacted the third party and didnt get a response.  
The third party has committed a clear  fraud.  He wants Skrill to make a refund. Hes asked for 
an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN24309222I understand Mr Hs frustration at what has happened. But it I dont think on the available 
evidence that Skrill is responsible for what the third party has done or obliged to refund any 
money to Mr H.
The payment of 563.70 USD  was clearly made by Skrill  in accordance with Mr Hs 
instructions and authorisation. 
Its unfortunate that Mr H now has a dispute with the third party but thats  a matter between  
them
Skrills account user terms make  clear its obligations are limited  to providing Mr H with an 
electronic money  account and related payment services. They also say it doesnt endorse 
the goods or services provided by a Skrill customer or intermediary. And it will not be liable 
for any indirect or consequential losses. 
In addition I agree with the investigator that the information on Skrills website doesnt 
guarantee it can assist  if there is a dispute or that it will refund a payment made.
Here Skrill  says it tried to contact the third party which  was reasonable. And its not its fault if 
the third party  hasnt replied. 
Overall I think  Skrill has acted fairly  and in line with its terms and conditions.  And although  I 
recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling  I dont think I can fairly  or reasonably  require it to refund 
the 563.70 USD  payment  or reimburse  him for any other losses he says hes suffered as a 
result of what the third party has or hasnt done.
I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2430922