K821x#15complaint
Mrs and Mr T say an Appointed Representative (AR) of Quilter Financial Services  Ltd 
(Quilter) gave  them  unsuitable advice to switch investments in 2013.  Mrs T appears to lead 
the complaint.
background
Mrs and Mr T had Individual  Savings  Accounts (ISAs),  Personal  Equity  Plans (PEPs) and 
a deposit fund. They say the AR had recommended  the investments historically  and that 
they were tax efficient;  that in 2013  they discussed  with him an objective to generate income 
from their invested funds; that he recommended  liquidation of the investments, use of the 
proceeds and the deposit fund for reinvestment;  that they used some of the proceeds to 
clear a mortgage and that he recommended reinvestment of the remainder (less around 
£1,000) in an offshore investment bond  (the bond) with a guaranteed 5% per year income 
(for 20 years).
Mrs and Mr T complain, mainly, as follows:
The bonds guaranteed income was defeated by advice from the AR against 
withdrawing income, in order  to avoid tax consequences  so no income was 
withdrawn from it. It should be noted that she did not ask for a guaranteed  income,  
she simply sought income to substitute lost earnings and the AR could have met this 
objective from existing  arrangements   without the switch he recommended.
The ARs recommendation  letter  was not received  in 2013, the copy given to them  in 
2017 was their first sight of it and it contains inaccuracies they would have 
challenged in 2013 (had they seen it at the time). In addition,  their investor profile 
does not appear  to have been  properly assessed (or assessed at all) in 2013.
Liquidation of the pre-existing investments and the loss of their tax efficiency were 
unsuitable; the bond was less tax efficient. 
The AR misrepresented  himself  as an independent financial adviser, however his 
recommendation(s) was restricted by his AR status.
The initial charge  and recurring advice  charge  for the bond are unreasonable.
Quilters response is mainly as follows:
Mrs Ts objective  in 2013  was to have guaranteed income of around  £500 per month 
to replace lost earnings. There is no evidence that the AR advised Mr T to liquidate  
his PEPs  for the reinvestment in 2013.
Terms  of business and key facts documentation  given by the AR to Mrs T at the 
outset confirmed his restricted  status  in terms of recommending  investments from a 
limited product range; confirmed the cost of advice;  and confirmed the initial and 
ongoing charges that applied. Mrs T received the initial  advice from the AR, so it is 
reasonable for her to have paid for that. The bond had cheaper annual  management 
and fund charges  than the previous investments.
An Attitude to Risk (ATW) questionnaire  completed in April 2013 shows that her 
ATW was assessed and was concluded  as balanced  which  is reflected in the 
recommendation letter.
The guaranteed income   which Mrs T required  was not available  from the ISA, so 
the tax benefits  of the ISA were  outweighed  by the guaranteed income  available from 
the bond.
Ref: DRN25125132There was a tax benefit in the reinvestment  because  previous 5% withdrawals 
(without incurring tax) were based  on the original capital invested,  whereas the 
reinvestment was based on the appreciated value at the time, it reset the basis  for 
the 5% calculation and allowed more money  to be withdrawn within the 5% limit 
(without incurring tax). In addition, the 5% withdrawals were  reset  as withdrawals of 
capital so no income tax applied, and there  was no taxation  within the offshore bond  
as there  was in the onshore bond that existed  previously. [Mrs T disputes reference  
to the onshore  bond and says it formed no part of the reinvestments in 2013.] 
Mrs T retained  a sum representing the 5% income withdrawals for a year, so 
withdrawals from the bond were  deferred  for the same period (until May 2014). Mrs T 
says she was concerned about starting the withdrawals in 2014 because the bond 
provider suggested  to her that there  would  be tax consequences in doing  so, but 
there is no evidence  that the AR advised  her not to start the withdrawals. However,  it 
accepts that the withdrawals should  have been  activated in 2014  and were  not. [Mrs 
T disputes reference to retention  of capital representing the first years withdrawals 
and says no such capital was retained.]
It accepts  that the recommendation  letter contains inaccuracies and it upheld  this 
aspect of the complaint as Mrs T should have received a recommendation/suitability 
letter that accurately  recorded the relevant elements of the financial advice given  to 
her.
It also accepts that Mrs T did not receive  the ongoing servicing she was entitled to, 
so it has offered to refund all the ongoing adviser fees to her inclusive of the growth 
they would  have achieved but for their deductions. In addition,  it has offered £250  for 
the trouble and upset caused to her.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded it should be upheld. He 
considered that both the liquidation and reinvestment recommendations were unsuitable, 
mainly because the bond was not an improvement on the pre-existing investments; the 
recommendations lost Mrs and Mr T the tax benefits  they had in the pre-existing 
investments; the initial charge associated with the bond was somewhat excessive; a 
guaranteed income does not appear to have  been  as important as Quilter argues, especially  
given the inaccuracies in the ARs fact finding at the time; overall, it is unlikely Mrs and Mr T 
would have proceeded with the reinvestment if they were fully informed.
Quilter disagreed with this outcome  and retained its key arguments. It said Mrs Ts non-tax 
payer status at the time must be noted  and that, overall and in this context,  the bond was at 
least equally  tax efficient  as the pre-existing ISA, it had lower  charges and it gave Mrs T the 
guaranteed income she sought. Mrs T welcomed the outcome but said that the ARs 
fundamental and severe breach of her (and Mr Ts) trust must  be noted. She also 
commented on the investigators proposal for redress.
The investigator reviewed  the complaint and concluded as follows:
The bond and the pre-existing investments (including a Zurich bond) were  broadly 
similar, both were  tax efficient and consisted  of similar underlying  assets. The bond 
also had cheaper  fund charges, however the initial advice fee outweighed this.
The bond undertook lower risks than the pre-existing investments, which meant it 
had less of a chance of achieving the same  performance as the pre-existing 
investments. This was compounded  by the need for the bonds performance  to also 
make up for the initial advice charge  outlay.
Ref: DRN25125133Overall, Mrs and Mr T should not have  incurred an initial  advice fee for a bond  that 
provided broadly  the same benefits  as the pre-existing  investments but was unlikely 
to perform as well as the pre-existing  investments. This made  the bond unsuitable.
The chargeable event that arose  in 2018  when Mrs T was advised  by a third party  
 to surrender  the bond is remote to the ARs responsibility as it was not advised  by 
him, so it would not be fair for Quilter to be responsible for any tax that arises from it.
Mrs T should  be paid £500  for the trouble and upset caused to her; she should be 
paid (with interest) a refund of all the advisers fees; she should  be paid separate 
compensation for loss of the Zurich bond;  she should also have  redress  for the 
unsuitable bond calculated on the basis of a combined FTSE UK Private  Investors 
Income Total Return Index and fixed rate bonds benchmark.
Mrs T accepted this outcome but clarified, mainly, that the chargeable event matter is not an 
issue because the liability that arose was zero and that the Zurich bond was not a part of the 
liquidation and reinvestment event in 2013  (it was surrendered separately, months  after the 
event). Quilter vehemently disagreed  with the outcome. In the main, it retained  its previous 
points and stressed as follows:
There is a conflict between the investigators suggestion that the bond was 
comparable to an interest bearing account  and the fact that stock  market investments 
behave differently to such an account. It is also unfair to compare the bond  with the 
pre-existing investments because the latter did not provide a guaranteed fixed  
income, which the former did.
The investigator continues to ignore the fact that Mrs T was a non-tax payer,  in terms 
of his comparison of tax benefits.
Mrs T requested investment advice, she was given such  advice and it was 
reasonable for her to pay for that. In this context, it is unreasonable to award  her a 
refund of the initial advice fee.
There is a conflict between, on the one hand,  the balanced ATR on which the ARs 
recommendation was made and the investigators comments  about  the unsuitability  
of lower risk investments and lower returns,  and on the other  hand,  the combined  
benchmark that has been proposed which is also of a lower  risk profile.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Summary
I conclude as follows:
The investment  switch to the bond  was unsuitable  because,  on balance, it was not 
worth recommending  to Mrs and Mr T, and I am not persuaded that Mrs T sought its 
guaranteed income.
Mrs and Mr T should be awarded £500 for the trouble and upset the matter has 
caused them.
As the bond  was unsuitable,  Mrs and Mr T should receive  a refund of all ongoing 
advice fees (inclusive of lost growth) they incurred, as offered by Quilter.
Ref: DRN25125134The above  conclusions are consistent with the investigators findings. I do not address the 
other areas treated by the investigator, other than my conclusions  on the initial advice fee 
and redress benchmark  matters summarised directly below. I do not consider them 
necessary to determine Mrs and Mr Ts complaint. Within this finding,  I also note that Mrs T 
concedes the chargeable event matter is not a complaint issue  and that the Zurich  bond is 
also remote to the complaint.
I agree  with the investigator that Mrs and Mr T should receive a refund of the initial  advice 
fee. However, for reasons  given below, I consider that the award should reflect the likelihood 
that they would have  sought  and would  have had to pay for  advice in any case.
For reasons given below,  I agree with the investigators finding  on the benchmark to be used 
to calculate redress  for the unsuitable bond.
Unsuitability
I consider, on balance, that the fact find and suitability/recommendation documentation 
presented by Quilter  are unreliable. Both Mrs T and the investigator have highlighted 
inconsistencies and inaccuracies in the latter. Quilter concedes the same. Mrs T also 
disputes the fact find document.  It is not clear whether  (or not) Quilter concedes  that this too 
is inaccurate, but I am persuaded  that it is just as unreliable  as the suitability  letter. 
Without breaching  the privacy of some  aspects of Mrs Ts circumstances in 2013, it is 
noteworthy that sections of the fact find document do not reflect  those circumstances  
where it would  have been relevant to do so  and that some inputs in those areas  even 
conflict with those circumstances.  A confusion  then arises further into the document  where 
the same  set of circumstances  are expressly  noted, having previously been ignored  in earlier 
fact finding categories. There is also evidence that suggests  incorrect financial information 
within the document. Overall and on balance, I do not consider the document  to be reliable.
Quilters assertions about Mrs T having  an objective for guaranteed  income  is broadly based  
on these two unreliable documents (one of which Quilter itself considers to be unreliable). In 
other words, it does not appear to have a credible basis to support its argument  about what  
Mrs Ts objective  was. In contrast, I consider Mrs Ts submissions in this respect to be 
broadly credible. She does  not deny that she sought income to substitute lost earnings and, 
on balance, I accept  her point that she did not specify a need  for guaranteed income. 
Quilters argument for the suitability of the bond is mainly based on the guaranteed income 
element. Given my conclusion above, it follows that this argument falls away.  What remains, 
in the main, is an investment switch to the bond that, as argued by Mrs T and noted by the 
investigator, does  not justify itself as being  suitable.  Mrs T has argued that the income she 
sought could have been explored from within the pre-existing investments  which appears 
possible  and the investigator  noted  that other  options could have been considered in this 
respect. Quilters secondary  argument  for suitability of the bond is the bonds cheaper fund 
charges. However,  as the investigator said, that was outweighed (or at least counter 
balanced) by the significant 5% initial advice fee  which  I address further below  that Mrs 
and Mr T incurred  in the process.
I do not propose what particular or precise recommendation should have been made to Mrs 
and Mr T in 2013 and/or would have been suitable  for them.  I do not have to. It is sufficient  
to establish, for the purpose of treating the complaint, that the ARs  recommendation was 
unsuitable for the reasons  given  above. It is also sufficient to say that, at best, the bond was 
Ref: DRN25125135recommended for an objective (that is, income  not guaranteed income)  that possibly  could 
have been met within the pre-existing investments. The AR does not appear to have 
considered or properly  considered this. His recommendation lacks sufficient justification for 
the investment  switch.
Initial Advice Charge
It is not disputed  that Mrs T sought  investment advice  in 2013. Whilst the ARs advice was 
unsuitable, her need  for advice was/is arguably distinct  so in the absence of the ARs 
unsuitable advice  she (and Mr T) would still have sought and obtained investment advice at 
the time.  They would also have had to pay for such advice. In broad  terms, the charge for 
initial investment  advice can usually be around  the 2% (of invested assets)  level, so I agree 
with the investigators  finding that the 5% they incurred in 2013  was unreasonable. 
With regards to the notion of a refund, I consider that the difference between the average 2% 
rate and the 5% they incurred  that is, 3%  is a fair refund  for the reasons  given  above.  
Refunding of the ongoing advice fees (inclusive of lost growth)  has already been conceded 
and offered by Quilter.
Redress Benchmark
The investigators view explained  that the combined  benchmark was suitable because  Mrs T 
sought income, with some  growth  and a small risk to her capital. I consider this broadly  
consistent with evidence from Mrs T. 
I have noted Quilters arguments  that the benchmark conflicts with the ARs assessment of a 
balanced ATR  which, for the sake of completeness, Mrs T does not appear to have 
conceded  and with the investigators comments about the performance of lower  risk 
investments. As stated above,  I consider the ARs  fact finding documentation to be 
unreliable  and, on balance, I also consider that this extends  to the ATR assessment 
documentation completed by the AR. The notion  of lower risk investment performance is one 
of the points treated by the investigator  which I do not consider necessary to determine. 
Overall and on balance,  Mrs and Mr T appear  to fit into the description of investors who 
sought income, some growth and a small risk to their capital and, as I repeat below, the 
combined benchmark proposed by the investigator  is consistent  with this services  approach  
for such an investor profile.
Trouble and Upset
I agree  with the investigators view to double  from £250 to £500   the trouble and upset 
award offered  by Quilter. £500 is broadly consistent  with the sort of trouble and upset award 
that this service will make in cases like Mrs and Mr Ts.
fair compensation
I consider that fair compensation will be to put Mrs and Mr T as close as I can to the position 
they would  probably now be in if they had not been given unsuitable advice  by the AR. I take 
the view that they would have behaved differently. It is not possible to say precisely what  
they would  have done differently but I am satisfied  that what I have set out below is fair 
given their circumstances and objectives  at the time.
Ref: DRN25125136what must  Quilter do?
To compensate Mrs and Mr T fairly,  Quilter  must:
Compare the performance of the investment/bond they switched to with that of the 
benchmark shown  below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual  
value of the investment. If the actual  value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation for financial loss is payable.
Pay interest as set out below. Income  tax may be payable  on any interest awarded.
Refund to them  all of the ongoing advice fees they incurred  on the bond (with 
compensation for lost growth as offered by Quilter  in its letter  of 4 April 2018) 
between the start and end dates below; and interest at the rate of 8% simple per year 
from the end date below to the date of settlement.
Refund to them  the initial advice fee at the rate of 3%, as explained above (that is, the 
3% segment of the 5% they incurred),  with interest at the rate of 8% simple per year 
from when the fee was incurred  to the date of settlement.
Pay them £500  for the trouble and upset they have been caused.
Provide them with the calculation of compensation  in a clear and simple  format.
Investment status benchmarkfrom (start  
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
AEGON  
Offshore  
Bondsurrenderedfor half of the investment, 
the Bank of England 
average return from fixed 
rate bonds and for the 
other  half, the FTSE  UK 
Private  Investors Income  
Total Return Index (prior 
to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total 
Return Index)date of 
investmentdate of 
surrender  8% simple per 
year from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement 
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Quilter should 
use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
Ref: DRN25125137I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs and Mr T wanted income and capital  growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to capital. The FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return  Index is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds,  and would  be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
I consider that Mrs and Mr Ts risk profile  was in between, in the sense that they were 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objective. The 50/50 
combination would reasonably put them into that position and it broadly reflects the 
sort of return they could  have  obtained  from investments  suited to their profile.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mrs and Mr Ts complaint and I order Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd to pay them compensation  as detailed above and to provide them with a 
calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2512513