K822xcomplaint
Mr D has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited  didnt  repair  his car fully under his motor 
policy following an accident.
background 
Mr D bought his car on 8 November 2018 and insured it with Ageas. Sadly, on 16 November 
2018, someone damaged it in a car park. Mr D made a claim and Ageas agreed its approved 
repairer would fix the damage. 
But when Mr D collected his car, he noticed  that not all the damage was fixed,  to include a 
scratch, the exhaust and the gearbox. His car went back and forth to the repairer and the 
manufacturers main dealer. Ultimately, Ageas agreed it needed to repair the scratch  and 
exhaust but it didnt think the problem with the gearbox was accident related. 
Due to this and the delay  in effecting  the repairs Mr D brought  his complaint to us. The 
investigator was of the view that it was right Ageas completed the repairs to the scratch  and 
exhaust but she was the view that it wasnt clear the gearbox issue  was caused in the 
accident. So she didnt  think  Ageas  had done anything wrong in not repairing that. She also 
thought Ageas should pay Mr D £200  compensation for all the delays and the fact the 
agreed repairs werent carried out properly initially.
Mr D remained  unhappy that the gearbox issue wasnt fixed  so his complaint  has been 
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint along  the same  lines as the investigator  did. Ill now explain why. 
Dealing first with the gearbox issues, I understand and appreciate  Mr D believes this only 
happened because  of the accident. However, the evidence from the manufacturers main 
dealer and the engineers  both at the approved repairer and from Ageas  dont  really  prove 
that was the case. Theres no definitive evidence to show me the gearbox was damaged  in 
this accident.  
More especially, the manufacturers main  dealer  said the following:
 As you may be aware  from your contact with Mr D we have been investigating a 
fault on an [reg number  of car]. The driver experiences a violent jerk at gear change 
intermittently. I wanted  to provide you with an update on the progress of our 
investigations. We have  previously replaced the gearbox oil and carried  out a full 
adaptation of the transmission control unit which re-learns all gears.  The symptoms
have again been experienced all be it very intermittently, we have  only experienced it 
once in the past 2 weeks. The next step would be to remove  the gearbox for further 
diagnosis. We have  been made  aware that the vehicle has been involved in a 
collision, we are unable to state if this is a contributing  factor or not.
As the investigator  explained, we dont  decide  whether any damage occurred to Mr Ds as a 
result of the accident,  thats decided on the basis of the evidence both parties obtained.  My 
Ref: DRN28045372role and that of this service is to assess whether Ageas did enough  to investigate the issue  
and whether it then came  to a reasonable decision on the basis  of those investigations. 
I think it was right that Ageas involved the manufacturers main dealer to look at the gearbox  
issue but sadly, for Mr D their evidence doesnt  say whether the gearbox issue  was as a 
result of the accident.  Ageas said that this type and model of car does have such  gearbox 
issues and given that Mr D hadnt had his car for very long before this accident, its more  
likely he didnt experience  these issues with it by the time the accident occurred. I think  on 
balance that thats a fairly reasonable conclusion for Ageas to come  to bearing in mind the 
manufacturers main dealer didnt say the accident was a contributing  factor. 
Ageas is only responsible  for fixing the damage actually caused by the accident. Obviously if 
Mr D can get his own evidence, which says it was more likely the gearbox issue was caused 
in this accident, I would expect Ageas to consider  it.
Ageas didnt initially repair all the damage to Mr Ds car properly. And Mr D was put to some 
considerable trouble and upset having his car go back  into the approved repairers  several 
times. Following the previous view of the investigator of June 2019, Ageas had agreed to 
rectify the issues with the repair of the scratch which  I also assume  has been done  by now.
So I agree that it should pay Mr D compensation for this delay and repeated times Mr Ds car 
had to go back to the approved repairers.  I also agree with the amount of £200 suggested by 
the investigator. Its in line with previous awards  I have made in similar circumstances. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part.
I now require Ageas Insurance Limited  to pay Mr D £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN2804537