K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Canada Life Limited turned down his claim for benefit  under a group 
income protection policy. 
background
Mr C was a member of his employers group income protection policy.
In 2016, Mr C stopped work because of low mood. He submitted a claim to Canada Life, but 
this was turned down  because Canada Life thought Mr Cs absence  was due to work-related 
issues rather than a medical condition. Mr C disagreed and brought a complaint to this 
service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He thought Canada Lifes  
decision to turn down  the claim had been  reasonable. 
Mr C has asked for an ombudsmans decision,  so the matters been passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
A claim  will be paid under  the policy, after a waiting period of 26 weeks,  if Mr C is unable to 
perform the material and substantial duties of his normal occupation due to illness or injury. 
I see that Mr C met with his GP the day before  stopping work. He was experiencing low 
mood and it was recorded hed been  on antidepressants for some  time. The GP noted that 
recently thered  been a lot of external pressures  both with his home life and problems at 
work. Hed felt his mood slip, wasnt sleeping well and felt tired and anxious. The GP 
increased his dose of antidepressant medication.  
In March 2016, a few days after stopping  work,  Mr C went back to his GP. He was still 
experiencing low mood  and felt unable to face going to work. Then in April 2016, his GP 
recorded he had some anxiety symptoms and was having some problems at home. 
At the end of April 2016, Mr Cs employer arranged for Dr S, a consultant occupational 
physician, to carry out a telephone assessment with him. Dr S said the trigger for Mr Cs 
absence from work  was an interaction  he had with his line manager,  which  led to him being  
issued with a warning.  He thought the problems were likely situational, but related to issues  
and problems Mr C had both at home  and work,  and that the solution would be situational.  
He noted that although  Mr C was on medication, he thought he should attend the 
Employees Assistance  Programme to help him deal with his problems better, and once the 
workplace issues had been mitigated, he saw no reason for Mr C not to return to work.
I understand Mr C attended  four sessions of counselling arranged by the Employees  
Assistance Programme.  
The GP records say that in May 2016, Mr Cs mood was euthymic (stable).  In June 2016,  his 
mood was still described as euthymic,  yet the GP recorded a diagnosis  of depression. In 
July 2016, after a mental health assessment, it was thought Mr C needed stress 
Ref: DRN25215612management rather than counselling. He was referred for a stress management course. I 
see the aim of that course was to help people tackle problems with anxiety, low mood or 
stress. 
Mr C attended the stress  management course in July 2016.
Then in August 2016, the GP recorded  that he wasnt doing  too badly, and had had an 
informal chat with his employer. He wasnt sure whether to proceed with a grievance or 
leave the job. The GP observed that he seemed calmer and less anxious, and was still 
undergoing stress management. 
The 26 week waiting period ended on 5 September 2016. But I see that after this time (early  
November 2016), a nurse who works  for Canada Life spoke with Mr C. She noted  Mr C had 
initiated discussions with his employer about returning  to work in an alternative position, but 
his employer said he had to return to his usual  role. Mr C had made  a formal grievance in 
September, and was in the process  of appealing the outcome. He told her he felt ready  for 
work if his employer would support him in returning  to a different role or department,  but he 
felt he needed  to wait for the outcome of the grievance appeal before returning. The nurse 
thought it was the work based conflict that prevented Mr C from returning to work at that 
time, rather than illness. 
Having considered all the evidence, on balance,  I think Canada  Lifes  decision to turn down 
the claim was reasonable. Ill explain why. 
Before Mr C stopped  work, it was noted by his GP that hed been  on antidepressants  for 
some time. His GP has since  provided more clarification about this. Hes explained that Mr C 
presented back in 2013 with anxiety and stress with panic attacks. He had a good response 
with beta blockers, but with increasing  stress later that year,  he was started on 
antidepressant medication in December 2013. When he was reviewed  in March 2014, he 
was apparently feeling calmer and more  stable. 
Its therefore the case that Mr C had been taking antidepressant medication for over two 
years before he stopped work in 2016.  This was managing his anxiety and stress, and he 
was able to continue working in that time. The trigger for him stopping  work in 2016  was 
apparently due to an interaction with his managers.   
When Mr C stopped work, he was initially described  by his GP as having low mood, yet this 
diagnosis then changed to depression in June 2016.  However,  theres no explanation for this 
change in diagnosis.  At the time,  the GP described  Mr Cs mood as euthymic, and shortly 
after that it was thought  he needed  stress management  rather  than counselling. The stress 
management course was aimed at helping people with anxiety, low mood and stress, rather 
than treating depression.
Mr C was no doubt dealing with a stressful situation at work, and I appreciate he may have 
been reluctant  to return to work  whilst the situation was ongoing. But crucially, Dr S thought 
hed be able to go back to work if the workplace problems were resolved. 
Overall, Im not persuaded the evidence supports that Mr C was unable to perform the 
material and substantial duties of his occupation. That being the case, I think it was 
reasonable for Canada Life to turn down the claim.
Ref: DRN25215613my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2521561