K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy British  Gas Insurance Limited  (British Gas)  hasnt compensated him for the 
new boiler he needed to purchase and have fitted.  He feels  British Gas should  compensate  
him for this under his HomeCare insurance  policy.
background
Mr D has a home emergency insurance  policy in place  to cover repairs to the boiler and its 
controls at a property  he owns and rents out. This policy also includes a yearly service to the 
boiler, to make sure this is running effectively.
Over the past few years the boiler at his property  has broken down  and so British  Gas had 
needed to attend to fix the problem. When various engineers attended the property they 
noted the system  contained sludge  and so advised a Powerflush  was needed to restore 
the system properly. Mr D didnt have a Powerflush  carried out. And in 2018 the boiler  broke 
down, and needed to be replaced.
Both parties  agreed that it was the build-up  of sludge in the system that caused the damage 
to the boiler, and meant it needed to be replaced. British Gas said that damage caused  by a 
build-up of sludge  in the system wasnt covered by Mr Ds insurance  policy.  And it said it had 
repeatedly told Mr D since early  2011 that a Powerflush was needed.
Mr D has explained that although he didnt have a Powerflush completed,  in June 2011 hed 
purchased and British  Gas fitted  a Magna filter to the boiler instead. He noted  this filter was 
designed to collect any sludge  building  up in the system.
Mr D said this filter wasnt checked  and cleaned by British  Gas as he wouldve expected it to 
have been. He felt the filter should  have  been  checked by British Gas to ensure it was 
working properly  and was cleaned of sludge   both during annual services,  and when 
breakdowns were reported to it. Mr D felt British  Gas failure to check  and clean this resulted 
in the boiler breaking down and needing  to be replaced. So, he wants  British  Gas to 
compensate him for the new boiler he needed  to purchase.
British Gas confirmed that during visits to Mr Ds property it didnt check  or clean the magna 
filter. It said its engineers  wouldnt  have necessarily known a filter was present, so they 
wouldnt have automatically carried out any work on this. It said Mr D would have been able 
to ask the attending engineers to have  a look at and clean  the filter if he wanted this done.
British Gas did say it had given Mr D incorrect information on one occasion  when one of its 
engineers incorrectly  told Mr D a Powerflush wasnt needed. It also recognised there  were  
two occasions  when it should have  returned Mr Ds calls, but didnt. So, it offered Mr D an 
amount of £150 compensation as a gesture  of goodwill for these problems.
Our investigator reviewed  this complaint  and didnt think  it should be upheld.  He said that 
based on the terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy it has acted correctly in declining
Mr Ds claim.  Our investigator also thought that even  if British  Gas had looked  at and 
cleaned the magna filter when it has visited Mr Ds property the boiler  would have still broken 
down and needed replacing. He noted  sludge  had been building  up in the central heating 
system before the magna  filter was fitted. He also felt the £150  compensation 
British Gas had offered  Mr D was reasonable.
Ref: DRN28345232Mr D disagreed with our investigators opinion. He said that the magna filter would have 
caught any sludge in the system. So, if had British Gas had checked  and cleaned out the 
filter on subsequent  call outs the damage  to the boiler wouldnt have happened.
As Mr D disagreed with our investigators  view this complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
I sent a provisional  decision  to Mr D and British  Gas on 6 March 2019.  In this I said;
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im not intending on 
upholding this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Ds policy documents to see what cover his policy  provides. Im aware it 
provides cover for repairing the boiler  and its controls. And, in certain circumstances it 
provides cover for a replacement boiler.
All parties  agree the boiler at Mr Ds property couldnt be repaired. So, Ive looked  to see 
whether in these  circumstances the policy provided  cover to replace the boiler. The policy 
explains it will provide a replacement boiler  if;
its less than seven  years old
Or its between seven and ten years old, we installed it, and its been  continuously 
covered by British  Gas under either a warranty or HomeCare  agreement.
Or it caught  fire or exploded, providing you gave  us access  to carry out your annual 
service every year since we first covered you.
Its my understanding that the boiler  in this case was around 11 years old. And it wasnt 
damaged by fire. So, Im satisfied the policy doesnt  provide cover for replacing the boiler at 
Mr Ds property in this case.
But, even if the boiler was newer  than this the policy also specifically excludes
Damage caused  by limescale, sludge  or other debris, if weve  told you before that you need 
to carry out repairs , improvements or a British Gas Powerflus h, or a similar process,  but 
you havent done so.
It is agreed in this case that British Gas had recommended a Powerflush  was carried out on 
the heating system from 2011  onwards, and this wasnt completed.  And the damage to the 
boiler was as a result  of the build-up  of sludge.  So, Im satisfied that Mr Ds claim is excluded  
as a result  of this term of the policy too.
Given the above, Im satisfied British Gas correctly declined Mr Ds claim, based on the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy.
But Mr D has said that British Gas lack of action in servicing and cleaning the magna filter 
he had installed caused the breakdown of the boiler.  So, he feels  it should  pay to replace it. 
He has explained  that in June 2011,  on the recommendation of British Gas,  he had a magna  
filter fitted  to the system. But he said British Gas hadnt checked this filter since  it was fitted  
either as part of the annual services it carried out on the boiler,  or when it was called to the 
property when there were  breakdowns with the system. He said that if British  Gas had 
checked and emptied  the filter the damage wouldnt have occurred.
Ref: DRN28345233Ive thought carefully about this. And I think that British Gas could have provided a better  
service to Mr D. British Gas said Mr D would have needed to ask it to look at and clean out 
the filter when it visited the property. But, Mr D doesnt occupy the property   it is tenanted  
so he wouldnt have  been present at all of the visits with British Gas to ask for this to be 
done.
And as it was British  Gas that fitted the Magna filter,  I think  it should have been aware there 
was one fitted to the system. Given this Im satisfied it would have been reasonable for 
British Gas to have checked  and emptied the filter when it visited Mr Ds property,  
particularly when it was visiting  the property because of a breakdown in the heating system.
But, whilst I think  it couldve provided  a better service to Mr D in this respect, the evidence 
Ive been provided  shows  its likely the problem  with the heating  system wouldve occurred 
anyway. Even if British Gas had cleared and emptied the filter from time to time. So, I dont 
intend on requiring  British  Gas to reimburse Mr D for the new boiler he had to purchase.  Its 
actions didnt cause  the boiler to break down.
Ive reviewed the job history notes  for Mr Ds property.  From  looking at these  its clear  the 
system at Mr Ds property  was suffering from a build-up of sludge  and British  Gas advised 
Mr D a Powerflush was needed on a number  of occasions  starting in 2011. In 2017  British 
Gas did further let Mr D know  there  was a heavy build-up of sludge  in the system. But the 
recommendation to carry out a Powerflush  wasnt acted on.
Mr D did purchase and have a magna filter installed on the system in June 2011  instead. 
British Gas has said that a magna filter is designed to keep the central heating system free 
from particles  so that it maintains maximum efficiency. And it would be able to clean 
particles from a mildly soiled central  heating system.
But it has also said that if a system is heavily sludged the filter will not cope and either  block  
or go into a by pass mode allowing particulates  to pass through/no filtration. Cleaning  the 
filter on a heavily sludged system would have  no effect as once cleaned the filter could block 
or go into by pass within minutes  or hours.
I have no reason  to doubt British Gas explanation of how the magna filter works, or what the 
magna filter could  cope with. The job history shows sludge had been  an issue  within  the 
system since 2011. As the magna filter would be able to pick up some  sludge, but, wouldnt 
have been able to cope with a heavily sludged system I dont  think  the cleaning of the filter 
from time to time would have stopped the breakdown of the boiler. So, I dont intend on 
requiring British Gas to compensate Mr D for the new boiler he needed  to purchase and fit.
Mr D has said the expert  that fitted the new boiler didnt complete a Powerflush   and said 
one wasnt needed.  But, Mr D hasnt provided any evidence to show the fault in the boiler 
wasnt due to a build-up of sludge,  or that if he had a Powerflush carried out as 
recommended it wouldnt  have stopped the breakdown. So, I dont think  this makes  a 
difference to the outcome of this case.
British Gas has offered Mr D an amount of £150  compensation   because it provided  some 
incorrect information to him, didnt call him back when it should have, and wasnt  able to 
replace the boiler at the property for some months  after he had broken down. So, Mr D 
needed to get his own contractor to carry out the work. Ive thought  about  whether this level 
of compensation is fair, for the trouble and upset  these  issues  caused Mr D. And I think  it is.
Ref: DRN28345234I can understand  how these issues wouldve been frustrating and inconvenient for Mr D, and
Im satisfied the £150 offered fairly reflects this upset. So, Im not intending on requiring it to 
do anything more here.
Both parties  were sent my provisional  decision. British Gas hasnt  made any further  
comments, or provided any new evidence on the matter. Mr D responded and said he didnt 
agree.
He said;
he has had Homecare  agreements  on other  properties over the years,  and he 
noticed recommending a power-flush  appears  to be a standard  response when a 
system breaks down  or is running poorly.
on this particular property when he had recently  installed the boiler he said an 
engineer had said his boiler was 10 years old, but this wasnt  the case. Mr D said he 
had told British Gas this. But nothing was done to correct  the issue,  and British Gas 
recommended a power flush  from that point forward.
if there were problems with sludge  in the system  in 2011  he asked how the boiler had 
continued to work, until 2018.
the engineer  that fitted a new boiler  at the property did so without a Powerflush, and 
instead completed a clean  through.  Mr D said the boiler is working fine now.
that the magna filter should have been cleaned as part of the annual service, but this 
wasnt done. Mr G also said he had called  British Gas recently and told it he was 
looking to take out HomeCare agreement, and that he recently  had a magna-filter 
fitted. He said he was told by British Gas that cleaning this magna filter would be 
completed a part of the annual service. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint,  for the same  reasons as detailed in my provisional decision.  
Mr D has said he has had a number of HomeCare agreements  over the years  and has 
noticed powerflushes  regularly  being recommended. I cant comment  on any problems Mr D 
has had with previous  boilers. I can only comment on the evidence  in this case.  And the job 
history for Mr Ds property does note a Powerflush  was recommended  to Mr D on a number 
of occasions,  regardless  of the age of the boiler.  And this was recommended because 
engineers had found the heating system to be full of sludge. So, Im satisfied British  Gas 
advice was fair in this case, based on its visits. And both parties accept that in this case  the 
damage to the boiler was due to a build-up  of sludge, after a Powerflush was advised   
which isnt covered under Mr Ds policy. 
Mr D has said the expert  that fitted the new boiler didnt complete a Powerflush   and said 
one wasnt needed.  But, Mr D hasnt provided any evidence to show the fault in the boiler 
wasnt due to a build-up of sludge,  or that if he had a Powerflush carried out as 
Ref: DRN28345235recommended it wouldnt  have stopped the breakdown. So, as detailed in my provisional 
decision I dont  think  this makes a difference to the outcome of this case.
Mr D has said he feels the magna filter British Gas installed  at his property should have been  
cleaned as part of the annual service  on the boiler. And that this information had been 
reinforced when  he recently called British  Gas, as it confirmed this was the case.  I havent  
listened to this telephone  call between  Mr D and the British Gas representative.  But, I dont 
think I need to. I say this because I do agree  that British Gas could have provided a better  
service to Mr D. And I accept it should have cleaned the magna filter as part of the annual  
service.
But, as discussed  in my provisional decision, I dont think this makes a difference  to the 
outcome of this complaint. I think its likely the problems with the heating  system would have 
happened even  if the magna filter had been  cleaned each year.  Based on the evidence 
provided, Im satisfied the job history does show sludge had been an issue  in the system  
since before  the magna filter was fitted.  And, the evidence  provided suggests the magna 
filter would not have  been able to cope with an already heavily sludged system,  even  if it had 
been cleaned  regularly. So, if British Gas had cleaned the magna filter, it wouldnt have 
stopped the breakdown of the boiler. So, I dont  require British Gas to compensate Mr D for 
the new boiler he needed to purchase.
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold require British Gas Insurance  
Limited to do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2834523