K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that the online account that she holds with Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc, 
trading as Post Office  Financial Services, mistakenly  transferred  money  into her account 
from her linked account rather than transfer  the money to her linked account. 
She says that when  she called the bank  to sort this out, they were rude and patronising to 
her. 
Mrs M wants  compensation for the mistakes  that the bank made.  She also wants  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  that she suffered because of the mistakes  
and the attitude of the bank staff.  
background
In October  2017, Mrs M opened an online saver account with Post Office Money. 
In early July, Mrs M says that she went online to transfer £5,400  from her online account to 
her linked account. She says that she received an automated message telling her that the 
money would  be transferred in three  working days.  
A few days  later, she found  that her account  was still showing the same balance  so she 
called the bank. This was on 8 July 2018.  Mrs M says that she received poor service  during 
her calls. She thought that the attitude  of the call centre staff was patronising,  rude, 
unhelpful and condescending. Mrs M was told that she had transferred money  from her 
linked account  into her Post Office account. Mrs M said she hadnt done this as she was 
capable of using  the online account.  She asked for the transaction  to be cancelled. She was 
told that it would usually be her who would cancel  the transaction  with her linked bank 
directly but, because of the circumstances, the bank would send this through to the back 
office to see if it could be done  for her. The correct transfer was then set up for Mrs M so that 
the money went from her Post Office  account  to her linked account. 
Mrs M raised a complaint regarding this transfer. 
Because of the problems that shed had with the call centre, she said she decided  to close 
her online account.  She did this on 8 July 2018.
On 9 July 2018,  she wrote  to who she thought was the CEO  of Post Office  Money.  She 
received a response saying that the complaint had been forwarded  to the Bank  of Ireland 
who dealt with their complaints. There were then some emails  giving some  confusion about 
who was the CEO  of Post Office Money.  
Then, on 11 July 2018, Mrs M received an email  from the Head of UK Complaints at the 
Bank of Ireland.  Further emails were sent back and forth. 
Mrs Ms consolidated complaint included the following:
1.The transfer that Mrs M had made online hadnt  gone through.
2.Call centre staff had told her she had transferred money into her account rather  than 
out of her account. She thought  this was a bank error  not her error.
3.She had received a message saying that the money would be transferred within  
three working days.
Ref: DRN200280824.She wasnt aware that Bank  of Ireland  under-write financial products on behalf  of 
Post Office Money.  
5.She had received minimal details  of her closing statement  and believed  that there 
was a discrepancy of £994 which led her to suspect fraud.
6.She had suffered stress and anxiety and wanted compensation. 
The final response  letter was written on 13 July 2018. Mrs Ms complaint wasnt  upheld  but 
£250 compensation was offered as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mrs M didnt  accept this decision and didnt cash the cheque for £250.  She came  to us. As 
well as being unhappy with the transaction on her online account being  set up incorrectly,  
she was also unhappy with the following:
The attitude of the call centre  staff when she called in relation to a transfer.
The service received in relation to her complaint.
How Post Office Money trades under different names.
Post Office Money's  IT system  not being fit for purpose.
Incorrect information provided in regards to a final statement.
The lack of information available online for a savings account.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that she could uphold the complaint.  She thought the banks offer 
to pay £250 was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs M didnt  think  that our adjudicator had properly considered her complaint so it has now 
come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mrs M wont be happy with my decision.  I wont be upholding Mrs Ms complaint as 
I dont think that the business couldve done  any more. I understand that this is not the 
outcome that Mrs M wants so I will explain why it is my decision. 
I have listened  to the calls between Mrs M and the call centre staff. I dont find that their 
attitude was patronising, rude, unhelpful  or condescending. I think that they tried their best to 
help Mrs M to the point  that they even  offered to see if they could cancel the payment from 
her linked bank  account  for her, which is something, they point out, that they dont normally  
do. I think that they did their best to explain how a mistake could be made in requesting 
money in rather than money out of the online account. Finally,  they helped  Mrs M set up the 
right payment. I cant see what else they couldve done.
I dont think that the error itself, that is money being transferred into the account  rather  than 
out of the account, was a bank error.  I appreciate that Mrs M is a capable person  and is 
happy dealing  with her accounts  online. But, having  looked at the online system, I can see 
how easy it is to make the mistake of overlooking  the money in/out tab. And, as the default is 
money in, it would be easy to have  left this assuming that money  would be transferred out. 
I think that the Post Office  did give incorrect information on being able to cancel the 
transaction for Mrs M. Mrs M had to go to her other bank  herself  to cancel  the original 
payment. There was also some confusion  and misleading information  about who was the 
CEO. But I dont think that this ultimately affected the service that Mrs M received. Nor did it 
Ref: DRN20028083affect the outcome of her complaint. I believe that the Post Office  have behaved  fairly  and 
reasonably in offering a goodwill payment of £250 for the mistakes that they made. 
With regards to Mrs M not being  aware  that the Bank of Ireland was connected with Post 
Office Money, it is explained on the Online Saver webpage and Post Office money website. 
Therefore I cannot agree  that Mrs M was deliberately misled.
Mrs M doesnt  think that the IT system for her online account was fit for purpose because  
she had to contact  the call centre for help regarding  her transaction.  She also had difficulty  
logging onto her account. I do appreciate Mrs Ms frustration here, but I cant  tell businesses 
how to run their IT systems. This is the role of the regulator. 
I can see that Mrs M was unable to get a full statement for her account  online once she 
closed it. So, when  she suspected fraud, I can understand  why she wanted a statement 
quickly. I believe that she was provided  with this statement without excessive delay. She 
received an email and the final response  letter both giving  her a full statement of the 
account. Additionally,  she was told of a number that she could phone for a statement when 
she closed the account. So, I cant fault the business for this. 
I think that the information provided  on the final statement was correct. 
Mrs M says that the bank  didnt proactively help in decreasing her stress  and anxiety. Im 
sorry that Mrs M feels this way. I think that the level of help that Mrs M got and the speed at 
which she was assisted,  leads me to believe  that the bank was trying their very best to assist  
her. 
The business did make  some errors. But I dont think that these were significant. So, I think 
that the £250 offered  is fair and reasonable in these circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I require Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, trading as Post Office 
Financial Services, to pay Mrs M £250. I am aware that a cheque has already been sent to 
Mrs M for this amount, but I am unsure if she is still able to bank it. If she isnt, a further 
replacement cheque should be sent to her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2002808