K821x#15complaint
Mr T is unhappy  that his van that he acquired  under a hire purchase agreement  with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  hasnt  been repaired. 
background
This complaint is a continuation of two previous complaints made  to this service by Mr T, 
from which two final decisions were issued  by ombudsmen. In the first complaint, the 
ombudsman decided it wouldnt be reasonable for Mr T to reject  the van, cancel the 
agreement and get a refund of his payments.  She said there was evidence of some  issues 
with the van but it was fair for Mercedes-Benz to have the opportunity to put them right.
Mr T then raised a new complaint with our service as he felt the repairs  hadnt been carried 
out. The ombudsman  in that case decided  that Mercedes-Benzs offer to allow  the repair of 
outstanding issues  at an alternative nearby dealership,  and to refund one months  
repayment made to Mr Ts hire purchase  agreement, was fair and reasonable.
Mr T says the van was never repaired,  and has been declared SORN following  a failed MOT  
in March 2018. So he raised a further complaint to Mercedes-Benz who said they wouldnt 
look into this as our service had already ruled on Mr Ts complaint. So Mr T referred the 
matter to us. 
Our adjudicator felt the complaint should be upheld.  She said Mercedes-Benz  ought to have 
overseen the repairs to the van that had been directed by the second ombudsman  and 
ensured that all outstanding  issues had been addressed and rectified. However, she felt 
Mercedes-Benz hadnt done this. And she also felt that Mercedes-Benz  had been  given 
enough time to ensure Mr Ts van was repaired, but this hadnt happened. So our 
adjudicator initially  felt that Mr T should be given a new van as a replacement  for his existing 
van. And she said Mercedes-Benz should pay Mr T £200 as it had failed to act appropriately 
when he told them his van hadnt  been repaired.
Mr T accepted this. Mercedes-Benz said they were happy in principle to allow Mr T to not 
have to use the van any longer, but were  unable to source a new van for him. So our 
adjudicator suggested that Mr T be allowed to hand  the van back and that Mercedes-Benz  
should refund him 25% of the payments hed made under the finance agreement  to reflect  
Mr Ts loss of enjoyment of using  the van. Mercedes-Benz  felt that a refund of 10% of 
payments made was more reasonable as Mr T had been able to use the van.
Mr T wasnt happy with this proposed resolution so the case  has been passed to me to 
review. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 9 May 2019. My provisional findings  said:
I should explain that my decision only covers  the period of time following Mr Ts 
acceptance of the decision from our ombudsman in respect of the second complaint 
we considered. So I wont be looking into whether the van in question was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied or whether it was reasonable to allow 
Mercedes-Benz to arrange for the van to be repaired. These  issues were covered in 
the two previous decisions by ombudsmen. 
Ref: DRN25514332It seems  that Mercedes-Benz accepts that Mr T should be allowed to give the van 
back. So I think it fair to infer that Mercedes-Benz believes this is the fair and 
appropriate way to resolve Mr Ts complaint.  I see no reason to say otherwise and 
would say that I too agree this is the fairest way forward. Its clear  to me that Mr Ts 
van wasnt repaired and that outstanding  issues remained  with it, which  Mercedes-
Benz accepts. That leaves me to determine whether Mercedes-Benz  needs  to do 
anything further.  
Our investigator initially felt that Mercedes-Benz should replace the van. However, 
there are now obvious issues  with this. Mr Ts finance agreement for the van hire has 
reached the end of its term. And Mr T has already bought a new van. So there  seems  
little sense in directing  Mercedes-Benz to replace the van. 
Mr T says the van has been off the road since March  2018. Im happy to accept thats 
been the case although it would be helpful if Mr T could send confirmation of this to 
us before I issue my final decision. But, assuming for now that is the case, then it 
wouldnt be fair for Mr T to have paid for a van since it has been off the road through 
no fault of his own. And I wouldnt think it reasonable  to say Mr T should have 
continued to use it bearing in mind  that it still hadnt  been repaired as required and 
had failed its MOT.
So I think the fairest thing  is for Mercedes-Benz to arrange to collect the van at a 
mutually agreeable time with Mr T, at no cost to him. I also think  that Mercedes-Benz 
should refund the payments Mr T made  to the finance agreement from March 2018  
onwards. And if Mercedes-Benz added any adverse payment information  on Mr Ts 
credit file for this agreement from August 2017 onwards (which is the time period Im 
looking at), then this should  be removed. 
I also have to take into account  that Mr T suffered impaired use of the van. In other 
words, Mr T wasnt able to use the van as expected  from August 2017  to March 2018  
because it hadnt  been repaired. That needs to be balanced by the fact that Mr T did 
use the van, which Mercedes-Benz has pointed out. This isnt an exact  science, 
however overall  I feel it fair that Mercedes-Benz refunds Mr T 20% of the repayments 
he made during  this period. 
I note Mercedes-Benz  agreed in principle to pay Mr T £200 as recommended  by our 
adjudicator for telling Mr T that they wouldnt be looking into the matter  any further. I 
see no reason to change this. However I intend to make a further award for the 
inconvenience Mr T has suffered as a result of what  happened between August 2017 
and the present time. Mr T was left with a van that wasnt  functioning  as it should 
which ultimately led to a failed MOT.  Mr T also had to find alternative means of 
transport because of this. So I think a further amount of £200 should be paid to Mr T 
in recognition of the inconvenience  he was caused.  
My provisional decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services UK Limited  to:
arrange to collect the van from Mr T at no cost to him;
remove any adverse payment information  recorded on Mr Ts credit file 
between August 2017 and the present time;
refund  all payments  made by Mr T to the finance agreement  from March 2018 
onwards;
Ref: DRN25514333pay interest of 8% simple  on these  amounts from the payment  dates  to the 
date of settlement;
refund  Mr T 20% of the repayments  he made  to the finance agreement  
between August 2017 and March 2018;
pay interest of 8% simple  on these  amounts from the payment  dates  to the 
date of settlement;
pay Mr T a total of £400  for inconvenience hes been caused.
I asked the parties  for their comments on my provisional decision. Mr T replied  to say that he 
felt I should look into any losses  he incurred since he entered into the finance agreement  in 
2015 rather than the period of time I actually looked at. Mr T felt that if I didnt do this, then 
he stood to lose out on a lot of money.  
Mercedes-Benz replied  saying it shouldnt be held liable for losses  relating to the van not 
passing its MOT. This was because the MOT wasnt granted because  of service and wear  
related issues. They  felt that a refund of 15% of Mr Ts payments up to the point of the MOT 
failure was reasonable. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr T feels hes losing  out as I didnt take into account  any losses that 
he incurred since he entered into the finance  agreement. However, I am only able to 
consider what losses  Mr T incurred from the point that the second decision issued by one of 
our ombudsman was accepted,  which  was in August 2017. This is because this 
ombudsman, and indeed  the one before him, considered the period of time from when  the 
finance was agreed  up to August 2017. I realise Mr T feels  this is unfair and I do sympathise 
with him on this. But I am simply unable to investigate what losses  Mr T occurred up to 
August 2017 as this has already been considered by our service.
Ive considered Mercedes-Benzs comments about the reasons for the MOT failure.  Im not 
however convinced that the van failed its MOT because of normal  wear  or for things that 
would normally expect  to be serviced at that time. For example, Mr T has complained 
throughout about the brakes  and this came  up in the MOT. 
Id also point out that a third party garage  determined that Mr Ts van was beyond  
economical repair and that this preceded the MOT. So, Mr T actually had a van that had 
serious issues and this stems from the inability of Mercedes-Benz to arrange  the repair of 
this despite being instructed to do so by two previous ombudsman decisions.  And I think  it 
entirely reasonable that Mr T had had enough  of the van by this point. 
So, overall Im satisfied that the redress I proposed in my provisional decision is fair and 
reasonable, for the reasons given in both this decision  and my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN25514334my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services 
UK Ltd to:
arrange to collect the van from Mr T at no cost to him;
remove any adverse payment information  recorded on Mr Ts credit file between  
August 2017 and the present time;
refund  all payments  made by Mr T to the finance agreement  from March 2018 
onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  on these  amounts from the payment  dates  to the date of 
settlement;
refund  Mr T 20% of the repayments  he made  to the finance agreement  between 
August 2017 and March 2018;
pay interest of 8% simple  on these  amounts from the payment  dates  to the date of 
settlement;
pay Mr T a total of £400  for inconvenience hes been caused.
If Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited  considers it is legally required to deduct tax 
from the interest award it should provide Mr T with a certificate  of tax deduction so he can 
reclaim this from HM Revenue  and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2551433