K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  is holding him responsible  for an agreement  
that was taken out in his name without his consent.  
background
In 2017, a conditional sale agreement  was taken out in Mr B and his ex-partners name. The 
agreement was taken  out to acquire a car that cost around £7,500.  It was to be paid back  
within five years by payment from Mr Bs account.  Shortly after the agreement was set up, it 
fell into arrears. Moneybarn made  various attempts to contact Mr B and his ex-partner about  
the arrears over the next few months. 
Due to the missed payments, the agreement  was terminated in December 2017. Mr Bs ex-
partner contacted Moneybarn the following month  and agreed  to enter into a consent  order  
with Mr B to repay the arrears which would enable them to keep the car. The agreement  
remained in arrears over the next few months  and the car was eventually repossessed. 
Mr B says that he separated from his partner, and following on from this, in November 2018,  
he says he found  letters that showed he was party to the finance agreement. 
Mr B says that he did not consent to enter into the finance agreement  and that his signature 
had been forged on the documentation. Mr B says his ex-partner had taken advantage of 
him and done  this without his permission. He also says his ex-partner had taken out other 
agreements without his permission. 
In December 2018, Mr B contacted Moneybarn to say he hadnt agreed to enter into the 
agreement. And, he also contacted the police to obtain a crime reference number. 
Moneybarn said it had received no contact from the police, and based on the evidence  it 
had, it didnt think there was enough to show that Mr B shouldnt be held liable for the 
agreement. It referred to the documentation completed and signed at the point of supply and 
to the consent  order  that was signed  by Mr B in January 2018. Moneybarn  said it had 
received a copy of Mr Bs passport  and bank statements that were provided during the 
application. It acknowledges  that texts and emails it sent went to Mr Bs ex-partner,  but it 
says it also wrote to Mr B at his address various times. 
Unhappy with its response, Mr B brought the complaint to our service to consider. 
Ref: DRN23627082Mr B provided some further evidence to our service after bringing the complaint to us. In 
summary he says:
He had a previous  joint agreement with his ex-partner  for a car but says she told him 
shed managed to source finance herself  with Moneybarn. 
He didnt drive the car.
His ex-partner left him with various  other  arrears. 
His ex-partner used his bank  account  to manage her finances.
His ex-partner hid the post from him, and it was only after she left that he started  to 
receive correspondence. 
He didnt recall signing the conditional sale agreement but does agree that he likely 
signed the consent order  although he says his ex-partner didnt show him the 
whole document,  so he didnt know what he was signing. 
His ex-partner had access to his bank statements and passport. 
The police advised him to go through  Moneybarn  to sort things out. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and contacted the broker  of the agreement. The 
broker said the application was made online and the sale was completed on the phone,  with 
Mr Bs authority. It also highlighted  the documentation and information  supplied to Mr B. The 
broker provided a copy  of the sales  call where Mr B gave his permission to be added as a 
joint applicant.
After reviewing everything,  our investigator ultimately concluded that Mr B consented to the 
application and that it was fair for Moneybarn to hold him jointly liable  for the outstanding  
balance.  
Mr B responded to the assessment to explain he mightve agreed for his account  to be used, 
but he was on medication at the time and his mental  health wasnt  in a good place. So, he 
wasnt sure what  he was agreeing to. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint that said:
The finance  agreement in this case is a regulated conditional sale agreement and our 
service can consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
It sounds like Mr B has been through a lot, and Im very sorry to hear how things have 
affected him. 
I have to bear in mind  that a court  has issued  a consent order in Mr B and his ex-partners 
name. The consent order gave Mr B and his ex-partner an option to retain the car, providing 
certain payments  were made.  
The court order  sets out what would happen if the conditions werent met. This is a very 
important document  because  its something a court has ordered.  Its not my role here to 
question the validity  of a court order. Its my role to decide if its fair for Moneybarn to fairly  
hold Mr B jointly liable for the outstanding debt. And based on the court issued consent order  
that sets out Moneybarn can hold Mr B and his ex-partner jointly  liable for the agreement, I 
cant say that its unfair of it to do that. 
Of course,  I should point  out there  is nothing preventing Mr B from going back to the court  to 
argue that he didnt  consent to the agreement or that it was taken out under duress. But this 
is not something that our service is able to assist him with. 
Ref: DRN23627083All things  considered, while  I know itll disappoint  Mr B, I cant fairly say its unreasonable for 
Moneybarn to be holding  Mr B jointly liable for the outstanding debt.  
Moneybarn didnt respond to the provisional decision. 
Mr B responded to say he was unhappy with the provisional decision and doesnt  think he 
should be held liable  for the debt. He reiterated that he didnt sign the finance  agreement.  
And he said he couldnt remember what happened with the court order and that he was 
unwell at the time and on medication. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I am sorry to hear that Mr B is unhappy and has been  
unwell. And by no means am I saying that his complaint  doesnt  have any merit. But our 
service is an alternative to court. The court has issued a consent order  saying Mr B can be 
held jointly  liable for a debt. And Mr B signed  this order.  Its not appropriate for me to say the 
court order  is incorrect. I can only repeat myself  and remind  Mr B that if he remains 
unhappy, he might want  to consider contacting the court.  
For the reasons  given  above, Im not going to direct Moneybarn to take any action. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2021.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2362708