K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the decision made  by National House-Building Council (NHBC) to 
turn down his building warranty claim. 
background
Mr W bought a flat that was covered  by a building warranty.  In 2017 he made  a claim under 
the policy as rainwater was entering his balcony. 
NHBC turned down the claim. It said the balcony  wasnt intended to be watertight, and 
therefore water ingress was likely  to occur.  It also said the balcony  had drainage  which 
allowed for water to be removed. It thought there could  be an issue with the drainage from 
the balcony, but said this wasnt covered under  the policy. Unhappy with this, Mr W brought  
a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He agreed with NHBC that 
Mr Ws claim wasnt covered, as the policy only provided cover  for below-ground drainage.  
Mr W didnt accept our investigators findings. He said the policy covered a defect to its 
common parts, which included any drainage system.  He therefore thought the issue with the 
balconys drainage  was covered. 
Our investigator then accepted this point,  but he thought that Mr W would need to make a 
complaint to NHBC in the first instance  (with  the other flat owners),  before we could  consider  
it. Mr W didnt  agree  that this was reasonable, so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider. 
I issued a provisional decision on 5 May 2020. My provisional findings were:
Mr W has explained that a large amount  of rainwater  enters  his balcony whenever it rains. 
He says the drainage is poor and so the water  sits there for days. Mr W explains this is 
causing damage to the balcony floor. Hes helpfully explained that the balcony is described 
as a winter garden,  and is fully covered by ceilings and glass  walls  on all sides. 
The claim was made  in years three to ten after the policy started. The policy explains that 
means NHBC would  pay for:
A The full Cost, if it is more than £1000 Indexed, of putting right any actual physical 
Damage caused  by a Defect in any of the following parts  of the house, bungalow, 
maisonette or flat and its garage or other permanent outbuilding,  or its Common  Parts:
Foundations
Load-bearing walls
Non load-bearing partition walls
Wet-applied wall plaster
External render and external vertical  tile hanging
Load-bearing parts  of the roof
Roof coverings
Ceilings
Load-bearing parts  of the floors
Ref: DRN28888892Staircases and internal floor decking  and screeds where these fail to support normal  
loads
Retaining walls  necessary for the structural stability of the house, bungalow, flat or 
maisonette, its garage or other permanent outbuilding
Double- or triple-glazing panes to external windows and doors
Below-ground drainage for which you are responsible.
Damage is defined as:
Physical damage to the Home caused  by a Defect.
 Defect is defined as:
A breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or anyone employed 
by or acting for the Builder.  Failure  to follow the guidance supporting the NHBC 
Requirements does  not in itself amount to a Defect,  as there  may be other ways that 
the required performance can be achieved.
Theres been no investigation into the problem,  but Mr W believes the drainage system must 
be defective. 
In order for Mr Ws claim to be paid, its not enough  for there  to be damage  to his home 
caused by a defect (though  we dont actually know at present whether  there  is a defect).  The 
damage caused by a defect would need  to be in one of the parts listed. As Mr W is aware, 
below-ground drainage is one of the listed parts, but not above-ground drainage. That 
means any defect to above-ground drainage isnt covered. 
I dont agree with Mr W that anything  not specifically excluded  by the policy  must  be 
covered. The policy  makes it clear there is only cover for the parts listed. The policy  includes 
a list of exclusions under the same section of the policy  which provides further clarification 
on what is not covered  (as well as general exclusions that apply  to the whole  policy),  but that 
doesnt mean NHBC needs to set out every part of the property that its not willing to cover.
Mr W also argues  that the policy says it will cover the cost of putting right any physical 
damage caused by a defect in its common parts. He makes the point that the policy 
definition of common parts includes any drainage system serving your home. As he thinks  
the problem is with the drainage system serving  his balcony, he believes his claim ought to 
succeed. Our investigator agreed with Mr W that a claim made  for common parts would  
seem to be covered,  and referred him back to NHBC. 
Im afraid I disagree with our investigator  on this point. And whilst I can understand Mr Ws 
argument, I disagree with his interpretation of the policy terms. Ill explain why.
First of all, I dont know if Mr W is legally obliged to share responsibility  for the cost and 
upkeep of his balconys drainage system with the other flat owners. If he is, then this would  
be considered  a common part. As the investigator  has explained, in order  for us to consider 
a complaint about NHBCs  rejection  of a claim relating to a common  part, we would require 
the other flat owners to be joined into a complaint. 
However, NHBC hasnt treated this as a common  parts claim. Ive already explained above  
that the policy will only cover any physical damage  caused by a defect in certain  parts  of 
theflator its Common Parts.  The policy then lists those parts.  This needs  to be read as 
Ref: DRN28888893a whole. And as Ive explained above, drainage is only covered if its below-ground drainage. 
As the balconys drainage is above-ground, that means it isnt covered under this section. 
I invited both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make, however 
neither party  did so. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, as neither party had any further 
comments they wished  to make, I see no reason to change my provisional findings. 
I therefore remain satisfied that damage  to above-ground drainage isnt covered by the 
policy, for the reasons set out above. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2888889