K821x#15complaint
Mrs A and Mr A took out a Total Mortgage Protection plan with a mortgage in 2004. The plan 
included accident,  sickness and unemployment cover (PPI) for Mrs A, as well as life and 
critical illness cover for them both. 
Mrs A and Mr A say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  the PPI. As 
Mrs A and Mr A have only complained about the sale of the PPI, thats all I have looked  into.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs A and Mr As case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think its likely Halifax made  it clear  that Mrs A and Mr A didnt have to take out the PPI 
and they chose to take it out. Although Mrs A and Mr A say they were told they had to 
have the PPI to get the mortgage, theres no other evidence to support this. And Ive 
seen the type of paperwork theyre  likely to have completed at the time and think this 
would have made it clear the PPI was optional.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs A and Mr A so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  
that it was. For example Mrs A wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover and they seem  to have had a need  for the cover. Mrs As shown us she would 
have received generous sick pay from her employer.  But the PPI would pay out on top of 
this, and would have been particularly  useful when her pay reduced to half after six 
months. The PPI would also pay out for up to 24 months.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs A and Mr A about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs A and Mr A paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs A and Mr A back  
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs A and Mr A now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN22692082my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2269208