K821x#15complaint
Ms D complains that Allianz Insurance Plc declined  her pet insurance claim.  My references  
to Allianz include  its agents.
background
Ms D took out pet insurance  for her dog on 10 July 2017, Allianz is the insurer.  The policy  
provides cover for life, subject to the policy terms and limits, while the policy is in force. Ms D 
says on 26 July 2017 her dog had an accident and injured his right hind leg so she and her 
husband took him to the vet the next day. 
The vet arranged x-rays to investigate the leg stiffness and also noticed  a lump on the dogs 
chest. Ms D says she told the vet she wasnt concerned about the lump as her dog had a 
lump before and the previous vet told her not to be concerned. Ms D says she and her 
husband had noticed the lump a week before.
Following the x-rays the vet practice  recommended the dog see a specialist  vet which  
happened in October 2017. The dog was diagnosed with cruciate disease and had an 
operation on his right hind leg in December 2017 and on his left hind leg in December 2018. 
Ms D made three claims for treatment  for her dogs back leg stiffness,  the first being in 
August 2017.
Allianz declined  the claims. The policy didnt cover any illnesses during the first 14 days  of 
the policy. Allianz said the specialist vets evidence showed Ms D's dog had cruciate disease 
so the problems with his legs were  due to illness not injury. The original vets consultation 
notes showed  the dog had signs of problems with his legs for one week  leading  up to the 
consultation, which was within  the first 14 days of the policy.  
When Allianz declined  the initial claims Ms D said the original vet had mistakenly mixed up 
the leg and lump conditions. The vet wrote  to Allianz saying it was possible  shed  made an 
error when  making  the notes and it was unlikely Ms D would leave her dog with problems for 
a week. But the vet wouldnt change her consultation notes as she wasnt  sure that her notes 
were wrong. 
Allianz continued to decline the claims. It said it relied on the vets consultations  notes made 
on the day of consultation  rather than details  from memory. Allianz paid Ms D £75 
compensation for her inconvenience due to its delay in dealing  with her complaint,  which  it 
says she refused.
Ms D complained to us. She wants Allianz to pay the claims which  total about £6,800.
Our investigator thought Allianz hadnt fairly declined  the claims as it should have taken into 
account that the original vet had probably made  a mistake in her consultation notes. He said 
Allianz should reconsider the claims and pay Ms D £100 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience it caused.
Allianz disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. It said it's more  likely than not the 
original vets consultation notes are accurate.  In summary it made the following points:
the dog had been with Ms D for about  a year uninsured before the policy  started. 
Three days after the excluded first 14 days of the policy the dog was taken to the vet
Ref: DRN22822752the specialist  vets evidence was the dog had cruciate ligament disease, a gradual 
degenerative illness,  not an injury.  Cruciate ligament rupture due to injury  is 
extremely rare and would  only be caused by a significant trauma  and there was no 
report of that to the original vet
as the dog had no obvious  pain and no limp it queried how Ms D could notice her dog 
had an accident/incident  the day before consultation
the symptoms noted by the original vet, together with the durations of the symptoms, 
are consistent with a gradual degeneration as opposed to something Ms D spotted 
the day before
the original vets notes  were  specific about how long the symptoms had been  present 
and in the situations they presented 
the original vet said mistakes in consultation notes are possible but are very rare. 
The vet hadnt  changed her notes.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Allianz  fairly and reasonably declined the claims, and I dont think  it 
did. I uphold the complaint.  Ill explain  why.
The policy clearly excludes  cover for vet fees for any illness which  starts in the first 14 days 
of the policy  or any pre-existing  conditions. The first 14 days of the policy exclusion doesnt 
apply to an injury.
The policy definition of illness which starts in the first 14 days of cover  includes an illness 
that shows clinical signs or is caused by, relates to, or results  from, a clinical sign that was 
noticed in the first 14 days of the policy.
The specialist vets letter  to Allianz  said Ms Ds dog had partial  right cruciate  rupture, left 
cruciate disease and mild left hip dysplasia  and the condition was most likely  due to 
degeneration of the ligaments and not injury  as the animal  was bilateral on presentation and 
there had been  a gradual deterioration. 
So Im satisfied that when Ms Ds dog saw the original  vet on 27 July his leg stiffness was 
due to a medical  condition,  an illness not an injury. Its possible the underlying medical  
condition was exacerbated by the dogs over-exuberance but the medical condition  was still 
the overall cause.  That means  the above  policy exclusion applies if clinical  signs of the 
problems were noticed by Ms D within the first 14 days of the policy.  
The original  vets consultation notes of 27 July say:
When stands not walking properly and lump  on rib cage. History since 1 week 
problems getting  up, tremor in back legs, ok when walking.
Examination- walks bit stiff with hind legs in consult, no limp to see very slow when 
getting up, stretching back leg to side, first left side then right bit difficult to exam due 
to size, no obvious pain reaction when palpating joints  and bone bit stiff on extension 
hip, right side worse  proprioception  mildly reduced, right side worse left side of rip 
cage lump, 1cm diameter,  red, looks like histiocytoma,  offered FNA (fine needle 
aspiration), declined  for now as just spotted  yesterday.
Ref: DRN22822753From the notes as written  Allianz could  reasonably  understand the dog had problems with 
his legs for a week before he was seen by the vet. That meant clinical  signs  of the illness  
were seen in the first 14 days of the policy and Allianz could decline the claims.
However, I dont think Allianz fully took into account  what the original vet later told it about 
the possibility  that she may have made an error  in her notes. In February 2018 the vet wrote:
Ive seen (the dog) on the 27 July 2017 regarding a gait abnormality and a skin 
tumour. I remember the owners  being quite concerned  about  his walking and not that 
much about  the mass because (the dog) had a histiocytoma (a lump) removed in the 
past. Reviewing  my notes from last year and what I can remember it is possible that I 
mixed up the time from when these two conditions were first noticed.  I think  it is 
unlikely that the owners  waited for one week before they brought  (the dog) into the 
practice to get his walking investigated as they were worried it could be something 
more sinister. I always try to write notes straight after a consult or while the owner is 
still in the consult room but on some days when it is busy and emergencies coming in 
it is unfortunately not always possible  and mistakes in the notes  are luckily very rare 
but possible.
The vet doesnt  say she definitely  made a mistake  but she does say its possible she mixed 
up the time from when  the leg stiffness  and lump were first noticed. She didnt change her 
notes but thats  because  she wasnt sure shed made a mistake. The vet practice  she 
worked for at the time told Allianz  that the Royal College  of Veterinary Surgeons code of 
conduct only enables  a vet to correct  contemporaneous notes where a known mistake  has 
been made. So I dont think Allianz  can fairly  say the original notes must be correct because  
the vet didnt change them.
I understand the points Allianz  made about  how the symptoms showed themselves being  
consistent with being seen over a week. But the consultation notes could just as easily  read 
one day problems getting up, tremor in back legs, ok when walking and Ms D just noticing 
the lump a week before. Thats particularly so given that the dogs medical history shows  he 
had a previous  lump  that wasnt problematic. 
But I think the most important evidence is the original vets comments  that she remembers 
the owners being quite concerned about  the dogs walking  and she thinks its unlikely that 
the owners waited  for one week before they brought (the dog) into the practice  to get his 
walking investigated  as they were  worried it could be something more  sinister. I think  those  
comments give a high level of doubt  about  whether  the consultation  notes are accurate.
I note Allianzs comment that Ms Ds dog was previously uninsured.  I dont know if thats 
correct, he may have been insured  through another insurer.  But even if he wasnt,  I think the 
high level of doubt about the consultation notes  accuracy means it wasnt fair and 
reasonable for Allianz to decline  the claims on the basis  the claim illness showed in the first 
14 days of the policy.
I think its fair for Allianz to reassess  the claims subject to the remaining policy terms and 
limits. I also think  Allianz should pay Ms D £100  compensation  for her distress and 
inconvenience due to its handling  of the claim.
Ref: DRN22822754my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Allianz Insurance Plc to:
reassess the claims subject to the remaining policy terms and limits, and 
pay Ms D £100 compensation for her distress and inconvenience  due to its handling 
of the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2282275