K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a monthly premium payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2010 when  he took out a loan.
background
In January 2019 I issued my provisional  decision. In it I explained why I wasnt intending to 
uphold this complaint.  A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of my 
final decision.
I asked for both parties to come back to me with any further information or comments  they 
wanted me to consider before 28th February.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mr Cs case.
Both parties  have been sent a copy of my provisional decision. Neither has come back to me 
with any further  comments or information  for me to consider.  In the circumstances, I see no 
reason to reach a different conclusion. 
Overall I dont think this PPI was mis-sold which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr C, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.  
Ref: DRN29238472my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above and as explained in my provisional decision the PPI policy  
wasnt mis-sold   so Lloyds Bank PLC does  not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN29238473COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a monthly premium payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2010  when he took out a loan.
background
Mr C took out a loan (ending 9745) and at the same time he bought  a PPI policy over the
telephone.
The policy would have covered him if he was off work because of an illness or an accident
for the remaining term of the loan. If he lost his job it would have paid out for up to
12 months on a successful  claim. It cost £30.74 per month.
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint  should be upheld. Mr C disagreed with this view.
He said that he didnt need the policy  as he had other methods  of repayment if things went
wrong. He asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mr Cs case.
Although I realise  Mr C will be disappointed with my decision Id like to explain why Im not
intending to uphold this complaint.
Mr C says he never knowingly had or requested PPI. So the first thing Ive thought  about was whether  
Mr C was given a choice about buying the policy. Lloyds  cant  provide a call recording from the time.  
But it has referred  us to the sale script that would have been used. I think that would  have likely made 
it clear it was an optional product. Ive also seen  a demands and needs  statement which says; we 
discussed your situation  and from the information you provided you have insufficient insurance  
protection from existing insurance or other means to meet  your repayments on this Personal Loan
should your circumstances  change.
Lloyds has also provided a copy of the loan agreement. On it, at the bottom  of the form is a
section about the PPI - its headed Loan Protection Insurance.  And this section  states: I
wish to purchase Loan Protection Insurance. This has been marked with a tick and I think
that more likely reflected  the conversation that Mr C had when he took it out. It also states
that the insurance was optional. Mr C has signed this part of the application  form and dated
it. As he was taking on a new financial commitment, I think he probably  would have read the
form. Overall taking everything into account,  I think Mr C discussed the cover and would
have realised it was an optional product and he chose to buy it knowing he could refuse it if
he didnt want it even  if its understandable if hes forgotten that now after such a long time.
Lloyds says it advised Mr C to buy the PPI. That meant it had to take reasonable steps  to
make sure it was suitable for his circumstances. It also had to give him information  that was
clear, fair and not misleading so that he could decide for himself if it suited his needs.
Ive thought about Mr Cs circumstances and looked at the terms and conditions  of the policy
to see if it was suitable  for him. Thinking about everything carefully I cant say it was unsuitable.
Ref: DRN29238474I can see Mr C feels strongly that he didnt need the PPI. He says he would have received
sick pay of more than three months but less than six months of his pay and he had some
savings of over 12 months of his pay. He has also told us about  another  personal income
protection insurance policy he had which would have covered him if things went wrong. Ive
thought about everything hes told us. Mr C has provided  us a policy schedule in relation to
the other policy he told us about. This shows he would have  been covered  by the insurance
for £200 monthly. But it doesnt say in what circumstances it would have covered  Mr C. And
Mr C hasnt been able to provide the terms and conditions of this policy. I have asked for
some more details about it but Mr C has been unable  to provide  any further information
about this cover. So I cant  say the other insurance  policy  would have covered him for the
same things as this PPI if Mr C lost his job or couldnt work through  illness.
This policy would have  also paid out for potentially  longer than his sick pay from work lasted
and in addition to anything  he did get. And as he took out a loan I think  he might have
wanted to use his savings  for other  purposes or keep them intact.  And if he lost his job or
couldnt work he could have used them for other important expenses. So I dont think the
policy was unsuitable.
And Mr C wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations on the PPI which might have
made it more difficult for him to make  a claim - for example, because  of a pre-existing
medical condition or an unusual employment situation.
I can see the costs were set out on the application form. But its possible not all the
information Lloyds gave Mr C about the PPI was as clear as it shouldve been. But he chose
to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would  have
been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont
think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Im intending  to decide that Lloyds doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of
the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should  have  told Mr C about  that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr C, that was 
unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back  the amount of commission and profit  share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said. But provisionally  these points dont change my
decision.
my provisional  decision
Im currently  intending to decide that the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold   so Lloyds Bank Plc
does not have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have  to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit share  it got
that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand  it has already  done this, so Im
not intending to award any further compensation.
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider
by 28 February 2019 after which I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2923847