K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) PLC (trading as Post Office Money)  wont issue 
two ATM  cards on her savings account.  Mrs W is assisted  in bringing this complaint by her 
daughter Ms W.
background
Mrs Ws daughter  (Ms W) holds a Lasting  Power of Attorney (LPA)  for her. Mrs W opened  an 
Instant Saver Account with Ms W named  on the account as her Attorney.  Post Office Money 
has given her daughter  an ATM  card but will not let Mrs W have one. Mrs W says there are 
times when  she cannot leave  her home  and go to the bank which is why her daughter, Ms 
W, is named on the account as holding a LPA. But Ms W is sometimes  away and Mrs W 
needs to go to the bank  with someone  else to access her funds. She cant  do that without 
her own ATM card.
Post Office  Money said that Mrs W had opened a sole account which  doesnt  allow  for the 
issue of two ATM cards. When an LPA is registered  on such an account, only the attorney is 
issued with an ATM card.  This is in line with its normal procedures  and company  policy. 
Our investigator couldnt see Post office  Money had done anything  wrong.  He looked at the 
terms and conditions of the account.  It was a sole savings account, and so the bank would 
only issue one ATM card. And he thought that was reasonable.
Ms W, on behalf  of her mother,  was very unhappy about this. She said that when  her mother  
opened this bank account they were not told the bank would only issue one ATM card.  When  
she is away her mother  doesnt have any access to her funds. And its not acceptable for the 
bank to say arrangements  can be made  to transfer money to another  bank  account  to allow 
her to access her own money. She said the only reason the bank is refusing to issue another 
card is because its IT system is not set up to do so. Its told her this may change in the future 
so she cant understand  why it wont  change it now. Ms W said she has spoken to other  
banks and their practice is that when a Power of Attorney  is listed on an account both the 
account holder  and the attorney have ATM  cards.  She is concerned that Mrs W has been 
denied access to her own funds and this has had a serious impact on her health.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how strongly Ms W feels about  this so I know  Im going  to disappoint her and Mrs 
W when I say I dont  think Post Office  Money has done anything wrong.
Post Office  Money is acting in line with its internal processes. And I know how frustrating 
Ms W finds this but this is not something  we can make it change.  Thats because our role is 
limited. We try to sort out individual complaints between consumers and financial institutions 
where the consumer  thinks he or she has lost out. We cant  comment on processes which 
apply to all its customers. Thats  the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. And the way 
Post Office  Money manages accounts with a Power of Attorney registered on them applies 
to all its customers. But we can look at Mrs and Ms Ws experiences with those management 
processes and see if anything has gone  wrong.  
Ref: DRN23511492Ms W said they werent told when they opened  the account they could only have one ATM 
card. But I wouldnt  have expected Post Office Money to do that unless Ms W explained her 
particular situation.  This is because when  a Power of Attorney is registered on an account it 
usually means the Attorney is handling the account holders finances on his or her behalf. 
Ms W said Post Office  Money was denying her mother direct  access  to her funds. By 
completing the Power of Attorney, Mrs W gave Ms W the legal authority to handle  her 
financial affairs and to make financial decisions  on her behalf. So Post Office  Money isnt 
denying her mother access to her funds. Its giving  effect to the Power  of Attorney and 
allowing Ms W to access Mrs Ws funds on her behalf. I can understand the problems that 
might occur when Ms W is away but there  are other measures that could  be put in place 
including transferring money to Mrs Ws linked  account. Im aware that Ms W doesnt think 
this is acceptable  but all I can say is that the bank is entitled to manage Mrs Ws account  in 
this way under its own internal procedures.  
Ms W says other banks operate such accounts  differently and will issue two ATM cards. I 
cant comment on other banks and their practices. All I can say is that Post Office  Money  is 
acting in line with its internal policies and procedures and so for the reasons Ive given I cant 
find its done anything  wrong. 
Im sorry  to hear about  Ms Ws concerns for her mothers  health. But for all the reasons Ive 
given I cant make Post Office Money  issue two ATM cards for Mrs Ws account.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2351149