K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited (trading as Very)  allowed a 
fraudster to open an account  in his name, and was too slow to remove the account  from his 
credit file when the fraud was reported.
background
It is not in dispute  that in August 2017 a fraudster opened a catalogue shopping account with 
Very in Mr M's name.  The fraudster used an old address where  Mr M had not lived for five 
years. Mr M discovered what  had happened in December of that year, when the current  
occupant of his old address sent him an account  statement and a notice of default sums.  By 
that time,  Mr Ms credit  score had been damaged  because the fraudster had not paid for any 
of his purchases.
Mr M immediately reported the matter  to Very. Very quickly  accepted that Mr M had not 
opened the account, and closed the account  without holding  Mr M liable for the debt. 
However, Very did not immediately  amend  Mr Ms credit file, and Mr M had to chase Very for 
this to be done. His credit file was finally updated 24 days after he had first reported the 
fraud.
Mr M complained that Very should  not have allowed the account to be opened in the first 
place, because the address provided  by the fraudster was an old address, and did not match 
the address on his credit file. He also complained that Very had been too slow to remove the 
account from his credit  file. Very apologised for these errors and paid him £130.
Mr M did not think that was enough, as he said he had been caused enormous  stress. He 
wanted nearly £1,000 in compensation. He brought this complaint to our Service.  Our 
investigator thought  that a total of £200  compensation would be fair, so she recommended 
that Very pay him another £70. Very accepted that opinion, but Mr M asked for an 
ombudsmans decision, so this case has been  referred to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree that £200 is fair 
compensation. Mr M has not told us he applied for credit during the period that the Very 
account was reported on his credit  file, so there has been no financial impact on him as a 
result of his temporarily  diminished credit score. I accept that the matter  was stressful once  
he discovered it, as his credit score  was important to him, and it had been badly damaged.  
Very took too long to resolve that, adding to his stress. But I think  £200 is in line with what 
our Service  would typically  award for this sort of issue.
Since discovering the fraud, Mr M has spent  £14.99  a month on a subscription to a credit 
reference agency, in order to better detect and prevent fraud in future. However, he might 
still have done  this even if Very had been suspicious in August 2017  and contacted  him 
about the fraudulent application.  So I dont think it would be fair of me to order Very to bear 
the cost of this.
Mr M has asked  for a refund of postage costs of £3.50 for letters  he sent to two credit 
reference agencies  in February 2018. As that was after his credit  file was corrected, I dont 
agree that Very should have to pay for that.
Ref: DRN28894172my final decision
So my decision is that Shop  Direct  Finance Company Limited  must pay Mr M £70, in 
addition to the £130 it has paid him already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2889417