K821x#15complaint
Mr T says Barclays Bank Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr T took out in 1997. It was added  to his 
account when  he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
I dont think Barclays gave Mr T clear enough  information about the policy. I say this 
because Mr T has told us he had a medical  condition at the time he applied for the card and 
policy. 
In our experience we think Mr Ts PPI policy would have excluded  or limited his ability  to 
claim for pre-existing  medical conditions. 
As Mr T was suffering from the condition  at the time he applied for the policy I think this 
would have mattered  to him because it is unlikely he would have been able to claim for 
anything related to the condition under the policy. Barclays has told us Mr T hasnt provided 
further information about the condition but with the information we do have and the 
knowledge of the type of work Mr T did I still think this would have made a difference to him.
So, I think Mr T has lost out because of what Barclays did wrong. 
putting things right
Barclays should put Mr T in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.Barclays should find out how much Mr T would  owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr T owes  and what  he would 
have owed.
Ref: DRN26400112If Mr T made  a successful  claim under the PPI policy, Barclays  can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when Barclays works out what Mr T would have owed each month without PPI  
Mr T paid more  than enough  to clear his balance, Barclays should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr T paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point  when 
Mr T wouldve owed Barclays something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
C.Barclays should tell Mr T what its done  to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Barclays Bank Plc should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2640011