K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about Kindertons Ltd and their decision to only authorise part of the repairs
needed to his car. Hes also unhappy with the length  of time it took Kindertons to arrange for 
his car to be taken to a repairer.
background
Mr T was involved in a non-fault road traffic  accident in September  2018. As his claim was
non-fault, he was referred to Kindertons by his insurer who were instructed to process his
claim.
Kindertons arranged for Mr Ts car to be taken to approved repairer and he was given a hire
car while he was without his own. They also instructed an independent engineer,  who Ill
refer to as J, to inspect the damage to Mr Ts car and authorise the work the repairers
could complete.
But J didnt authorise  the repairers to fix the damage  to both the front and rear of Mr Ts car.
They thought it was likely the damage  to the front of Mr Ts car related to a separate
incident, not the accident Mr T was making  a claim for. So, they only authorised  the repairs
to the rear. Mr T disputed  this, which meant  the repairs were unable  to go ahead.  And as Mr
T needed  his car to travel abroad,  he took the car back from the repairer.  He then raised  a
complaint with Kindertons.
Mr T complained about the length  of time his car had been  damaged  without repair. He was
unhappy that J had refused to authorise all the repair  work  as he felt it was clear  all the
damage was caused by the accident in September. So, he wanted Kindertons  to authorise
all the repairs needed and to provide an apology for the distress  hed been caused.
But Kindertons didnt  agree. They thought theyd acted fairly by only authorising the repairs
to the rear of Mr Ts car, based  on the guidance J provided. They explained  they did this as
theyd be unable to recoup the costs of the repairs for the front of the car from the Third-
Party Insurer (TPI). And they explained  it was standard  practice for engineers to assess  the
damage through photos so didnt  think theyd done anything wrong by not arranging  a
physical inspection. So, they didnt think they needed  to do anything  more. Mr T remained 
unhappy with this response, so he referred  his complaint to us.
While the complaint was with our investigator, Mr T obtained his own report from another
independent engineer, who Ill refer to as E. They  physically inspected  Mr Ts car and
thought it was most likely  that the damage to both the rear and front was caused by the
accident in September 2018.
Our investigator considered this report, and the evidence provided by Kindertons,  and
upheld the complaint. He explained  E has inspected the car in person, rather  than through
images like J. And because of this, he thought  it was most likely  that Es report  was the most
accurate. So, he thought  it was most  likely that the damage to both ends of Mr Ts car was
caused by the accident  and thought Kindertons should cover the cost of all of the repair  work
that was needed. He also thought Kindertons should cover the costs  of the independent
engineers report  they obtained from E.
Mr T accepted our investigators  view. But Kindertons didnt. They  forwarded  the report  from
E to J, and J maintained their view that the damage to the front of Mr Ts car wasnt caused
Ref: DRN24674782by the accident Mr T was claiming for. So, Kindertons thought theyd acted  fairly  and didnt 
think they should cover the costs of all the repairs, or the report  Mr T obtained.  As 
Kindertons didnt agree,  the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 March 2021, where I explained my intention not to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If I havent commented on any specific
point, its because I dont  believe its affected  what I think is the right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mr T. I appreciate its been a
significant amount  of time since the accident  took place. And I can understand how
frustrating it will have been to have a damaged car that hasnt be repaired for that amount of
time. I also want  to recognise the length of time Mr T has been  waiting  for a decision to be
made on his complaint. Unfortunately,  we had to place decisions such  as Mr Ts on hold
while we handled  a challenge to our jurisdiction around complaints brought  to us about
Accident Management  Companies (AMC)  such as Kindertons. Having done so, this has
impacted the way we consider complaints  such  as Mr Ts and Ive explained how Ive
considered his complaint below.
Up until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And
complaints about  AMCs were dealt with by the Legal  Ombudsman.  On 1 April 2019  the
regulation of AMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to
the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because  the events Mr T is complaining about took
place before this change  in regulation, my decision must be based  on the approach  the
Claims Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman wouldve taken.
And having considered Mr Ts complaint based  on this approach, I dont think its one I can
uphold. And Ill explain  why.
Under the rules  set by the Claims Management Regulator, and the approach  taken by the
Legal Ombudsman, AMCs such as Kindertons arent deemed to be responsible  for the
decisions made by independent engineers such as J. So, Im unable to consider  whether  J
acted unfairly when deciding that part of the damage  wasnt  related to the accident in
September 2018. My decision is only able to focus on the actions Kindertons  took and the 
service they provided  to Mr T directly. Even though  I cant  say Kindertons are responsible for 
the decision made by J in its report, I can consider whether Kindertons considered Mr Ts
disputes about it.
Ive seen Kindertons  file notes which show they waited  to authorise the repairs until J
confirmed they thought  they were fair and related to the accident Mr T was involved in. This
is because Kindertons were acting on Mr Ts behalf  on a non-fault basis, meaning any costs
they incurred would  then be recovered from the TPI. When  J raised concerns about the
damage, I can see Kindertons provided all of the images they had available  as well as the
accident circumstances Mr T provided to ensure  J could reach an informed decision.  After
doing so, J maintained their decision that part of the damage couldnt be attributed  to the
accident. So, Kindertons  made Mr T aware of this.
I wouldnt expect Kindertons to authorise the repairs to the front of car if J had decided  it
wasnt caused by the accident in September 2018. This is because  they would  then be
unable to reclaim the costs of this back from the TPI and this would then leave Mr T
responsible for the costs. I can see Kindertons explained to Mr T that he could raise a claim
Ref: DRN24674783on his own insurance  policy  for this further  damage  but that any excess  held on the policy
would apply. I dont  think this was unreasonable advice, but I can understand why Mr T was
unhappy with this as he felt the damage  was all related  to the accident  in question.
Ive also seen that after receiving Mr Ts own report from E, they forwarded  this on to J for
their consideration. And I can see that J maintained  their view that the damage  to the front of
the car was unrelated, despite the comments from E. While I understand Mr Ts point about
E physically  inspecting his car and why this report should have more  weight than Js that
was based on images  alone, this isnt something Im able to consider. As I explained earlier
in my decision, the rules set by the Claims Management Regulator at the time of Mr Ts
accident doesnt consider Kindertons to be responsible for the actions of J. So, they arent
responsible for the report itself, or its contents.
So, from what Ive seen,  I think Kindertons  forwarded Mr Ts concerns to J fairly,  both at the
time his car was taken in for repair and when the report from E was provided. And as J
maintained their view that part of the damage  was unrelated, I think Kindertons  have  acted
fairly when  relying  upon this and not authorising all of the repairs  Mr T wanted completing.
Because of this, I cant say Kindertons have done  anything wrong and I dont  think  it would
be fair for me to say they should cover  the costs  of the full repair  or the report  Mr T obtained
from E.
Ive also considered the delays Mr T as mentioned. I recognise  it took almost  a month for his
car to be taken in to be repaired. But Im also aware Mr T was able to use his car at the time
as it was deemed roadworthy. So, although  I can recognise Mr Ts frustration and his want
for his car to be repaired  sooner,  I dont think Mr T was impacted to such an extent that
Kindertons should  pay him to recognise this. The delays caused when Mr Ts car was with
the repairer was due to the dispute in the authorisation of the repairs  and I dont think  this
was the fault of Kindertons. And this dispute has remained  while  our service has processed
Mr Ts complaint which again,  I dont  think it would be fair to hold Kindertons responsible for.
So, I dont think they need to do anything  more for this part of Mr Ts complaint.
responses
Kindertons accepted the provisional decision and didnt provide any further comments. But 
Mr T didnt.  His response was provided by his wife on his behalf but for the ease of writing,  
Ive taken the comments made as his own. He was unhappy he was being made to feel like 
hed made  a fraudulent claim.  Mr T provided  another copy  of the engineers report from E 
and explained  his belief that this should  be taken  into consideration. He also provided a 
letter he received from his insurer, which confirmed the claim had been settled on a non-fault 
basis, with no impact  on his no claims discount.  
He thought these documents proved the damage  in disputed was caused by the accident. 
And he thought  Kindertons had a responsibility to manage the claim and ensure this damage  
was repaired.  So, he maintained his view that Kindertons failed to do this and he wanted 
them to cover the costs  of the repairs still needed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be changing my 
initial conclusions.
Ref: DRN24674784First, I want to explain to Mr T that my decision isnt intended to place blame on him for the 
situation he finds himself  in. Ive no doubt Mr T genuinely believes the remaining damage to 
be related to the accident. And I dont think hes purposefully manufactured the claim to 
repair damage he was aware the car already had. I can also understand why he feels 
Kindertons should  be the business held responsible, as they were the business managing 
the claim on his behalf.
But as my provisional decision explained, Ive had to consider  Mr Ts complaint under the 
regulatory rules that were  in place the time the incident occurred. And on this occasion,  
Kindertons were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And any complaints made  
about AMCs such as Kindertons wouldve been considered  by the Legal Ombudsman. So, 
Ive had to make my decision based on the approach the Legal Ombudsman wouldve taken.
Within this approach,  Kindertons  are not held responsible for the actions, or decisions,  made  
by J. And in this case, J decided part of the damage was unlikely to be accident related. As J 
were acting as the expert in the claim,  I cant say that Kindertons have acted unfairly by 
proceeding with the claim based  on the decision taken  by J. And when  Mr T raised concerns 
about this, and provided his own report compiled by E, Ive seen Kindertons forwarded these 
to J to consider.  And having done so, Js position  remained unchanged. 
So, while I do understand Mr T feels its unfair that hes been  left with a car that hasnt been 
fully repaired as hed expect, I cant say this is because of anything Kindertons have done  
wrong. I think Kindertons have acted fairly, and as Id have expected them  to do so. They 
progressed the claim on the guidance provided  by J and I think they handled Mr Ts disputed  
fairly by passing his concerns to J for further  consideration. Because of this, I dont think  they 
need to do anything more.
I have also considered the letter  Mr T has provided  from his insurer. And I recognise this 
letter explains it was settled on a non-fault basis and that his no claims discount wasnt  
affected. But Mr T instructed Kindertons  to manage  his claim on this basis and reclaim any 
costs back from the TPI. So, I dont think this letter impacts my decision.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr T was hoping  for. And I recognise this leaves him with 
a car that has damage he feels shouldve been  repaired  as part of the claim. But as Ive 
explained, I dont  think this is because of anything  Kindertons has done wrong when 
considering his complaint under the approach set out by the regulator at the time.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2021.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2467478