K822xcomplaint
Mrs G complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly blocked her bank account and she wants
compensation for the delay in unblocking her account and her losses.
background 
I set out the background  to the complaint within my Provisional  Decision, a copy is attached.
my provisional findings and the parties responses
Santander blocked Mrs Gs account and asked  her about payments when £13,000 was 
credited. I said Santander wrote  to Mrs G the same  day, but Ms G said this wasnt  true, but 
she was in contact  with the bank the next day.
I said that Mrs G responded promptly but Santanders enquiry with the bank that sent the 
payment took time to resolve. Mrs G said she told Santander about the transactions in 
advance and the delay wasnt her fault.  
I said Santander is required  to establish the validity of funds  and may block an account
where it has concerns.  Mrs G said because of the block she had to borrow  money  to pay her 
bills and couldnt meet  her day-to-day  spending.
Mrs G said Santander called her and offered £154  compensation as an inconvenience  
payment, which  she rejected as she doesnt  feel shes been  treated fairly. Santander 
acknowledged it had offered Mrs G £150 compensation for her inconvenience.
Santander had no other comments  to make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that
Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld, and for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
The transactions appeared to be unusual for Mrs G and I havent seen any record of an 
explanation from her to Santander before the money arrived  in her account.
Mrs G said she didnt receive  Santanders letter telling her it had blocked the account. I have 
seen proof  of dispatch and fortunately Mrs G contacted Santander the next day. 
Unfortunately the other bank involved in the transaction  didnt  respond  for several weeks  and 
this caused the delay  of which Mrs G complains.
Mrs G feels that Santander should have lifted the block  based on her information alone, but 
to resolve the enquiry Santander  needed  information from both ends  of the transaction  and 
this was very slow in coming from the other bank. I have seen that once the information 
arrived, Santander unblocked Mrs Gs account immediately.
I sympathise with Mrs G for having  her account blocked for over two months, particularly as 
she provided the information requested by Santander. Mrs G hasnt provided any information 
about her losses and I remain of the view that Santanders previous offer to her of £150 
compensation for her inconvenience, is fair in her circumstances.
Ref: DRN27318252my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld  in part and I 
require Santander  UK Plc to pay Mrs G £150 compensation for the inconvenience she has 
suffered when her account was blocked.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2731825