K820x#14complaint
C, a limited company,  complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont  refund cash withdrawals 
it said werent authorised  to be made  from its account.
background
C disputes ten cash withdrawals which total £1,060.  Cs director says she noticed these at 
the end of October 2018 when she was doing the accounts. The first two were on 25 August 
2018. And in between  those two withdrawals on that day genuine  payments were  made with 
the card. After  a gap these started  again  on 30 September  2018 and continued to the final 
one on 24 October 2018  the day before C reported what happened.  Those latter  eight 
withdrawals were each for £100.
The director  of C says she had her company debit card and didnt give it to anyone. She 
didnt disclose the PIN. She used the card to make genuine payments during this time.  She 
has reported this to the police and now thinks that contractors working  in her house were  
able to take her card each time. She doesnt  have any evidence about  any action that is 
being taken by police.
Barclays said it was holding C liable for the payments. There was no clear way in which 
someone else found out the PIN. And then was able to take and replace  the debit card 
without the director  knowing. It said that on both 8 and 11 October  2018  the director had also 
used her debit card on her personal  account at the same cash  machine at the time that she 
said the card for C was being used fraudulently. Barclays also thought that a fraudster 
wouldve taken as much  money from the account  as quickly as possible. Barclays paid C 
£200 for the poor service  when dealing with the complaint.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-The director had now explained  that the PIN on the debit card for C was the same as 
that for her personal account.  And it was written  down on a piece of paper in her 
desk and couldve been left out. Her children had in the past used  her personal card 
and PIN with her permission.
-All the cards were kept loose  in her bag which was also sometimes  on her desk.  She 
says she kept a close eye on the contractors  but would sometimes  go elsewhere in 
her house to take calls.
-Hed looked at the location of the cash machines and shown that the ones used were 
up to a 16 minute drive from the directors house.  The nearest one was six minutes 
away. This meant it wouldve taken up to 40 minutes to go to the cash  machines, 
take out money and return the card to the house. There  was no reason not to use the 
nearest one. And he said that the director had withdrawn cash from Cs account in 
the past.
-He thought it unlikely that the contractors had been able to take and then replace the 
card on these ten occasions.  Most  times a balance enquiry was also made and he 
couldnt see why someone in possession  of the card and PIN wouldnt have taken  
out more of the money shown to be available in Cs account.
-The director hadnt reported the withdrawals  from her personal account on 8 and 10 
October 2018 as fraudulent. So he couldnt see how it was possible for an unknown  
third party  to take money from Cs account within minutes of her withdrawing money 
at the same location. And Barclays records showed that shed checked  her personal 
Ref: DRN22178582account almost every  day using mobile banking so he wouldve expected her to 
notice this.
-He thought it most likely that the director of C had authorised  the payments herself or 
authorised someone else to do them.  So he hadnt needed to go on to say 
specifically whether the director had been  grossly negligent  in writing down the PIN. 
-C had made a new complaint about access to information from its account which he 
said it would need to raise with Barclays first.
C didnt agree and thought that the assessment was incorrect. The director  said that shed 
made one withdrawal of cash  herself from Cs account in August 2018 but she didnt do this 
regularly. So she didnt  think  this was consistent  with her taking the money.  The contractors 
were in her house for 90 days and only needed  up to 10 minutes to take the card.  There  was 
an ongoing police investigation. She maintained  that these withdrawals werent  authorised 
and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take account of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 when reviewing this 
complaint. The key thing I will be thinking  about  is whether C authorised  these payments. 
Thats more than them being authenticated with the correct security information. But it 
requires C to have  consented to the payments being  made. If the payments werent 
authorised then there would generally  be no basis for C to be held responsible  for them.  But 
as our investigators mentioned if not I would then need to think  about whether  C met its 
obligations to keep its security information  safe.
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that these  withdrawals  were made when the chip on 
the genuine card was read and the correct PIN entered. So I think that these were  
authenticated. The less straightforward  part in considering whether the payments were 
authorised was whether C also consented  to them.
Our investigator has spoken to the director of C about these payments. And Ive also 
listened to a recording of the call when  she first spoke to Barclays  about  this. She made  no 
mention then of having written down her PIN. Or of her explanation now that contractors in 
her house  couldve  had access to her card and PIN. I appreciate that this may not have 
occurred to her then. And neither  was she asked about the timing of the withdrawals for C 
and from her personal account  on 8 and 11 October  2018. She hadnt reported those 
personal ones  as fraudulent. But if there  is a simple explanation for those I think she still 
wouldve been able to give that now. 
I want to summarise some key details drawing  on the information our investigator put in his 
view about the following  dates where the same cash machine was used for disputed 
payments:
8 October 2018 
14:55 Balance enquiry on personal  account  of director  
14:56 Balance enquiry on account  for C
14:56 Cash withdrawal  from Cs account of £100
15:02 Cash withdrawal  from personal account
Ref: DRN2217858316:27 Cs card used for a genuine chip and PIN payment
11 October 2018
17:45 Cs card used for a contactless  payment
19:16 Cash withdrawal  from personal account
19:17 Balance enquiry on Cs account
19:17 Cash withdrawal  from Cs account
I consider it most likely that if the withdrawals  on the personal account were  also fraudulent 
the director would have noticed  and reported  these. So like our investigator  Im struggling  to 
understand how it was possible for the director to be at the same  cash  machine making 
withdrawals at the time she says an unknown third party, possibly a contractor working on 
her house,  was making withdrawals from Cs account.
To me this is the most important evidence in deciding that C consented to the payments. But 
its not the only evidence. I find the pattern of disputed withdrawals inconsistent  with the 
actions of a fraudster. The maximum amount available wasnt  withdrawn as quickly  as 
possible. And a fraudster  wouldve needed to take and replace the card on numerous 
occasions risking detection. Thats  especially as our investigator has shown how long it 
wouldve taken to drive  to and from the cash machines involved. The director  of C says she 
kept a close eye on the contractors. And I dont see even over the 90 day period she says 
that they were  in her house theyd  have likely had all the opportunities to make these 
withdrawals.
So Im afraid  my conclusion  is that these payments were most likely  made  with the consent  
of C given on its behalf by the director. Either the director made the payments or someone 
she had authorised to make them did.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2217858