K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  on behalf  of Ms L about  issues shes experienced with a car purchased with 
finance from Close Brothers Limited.
background
In May 2018  Ms L was supplied  with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement  
with Close  Brothers.
Soon after purchase  Ms L experienced a number of issues including:
Problems with the clutch
High fuel consumption
Car going into limp mode
Noise from the car
The car was returned to the dealer and repairs were carried  out to the clutch and the 
auxiliary belt. A forced  regeneration of the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) was also carried  
out.
Ms L continued to experience issues with the car consuming a lot of fuel. She complained  to 
Close Brothers and asked to reject  the car.
Close Brothers arranged  for an independent inspection of the car. The inspector found  no 
faults. Close Brothers closed the complaint.
Ms P was unhappy  with the response  and complained to this service. She said the fuel 
consumption was high and more  recently shed  experienced an issue with the engine.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She was satisfied,  based  on the findings of the 
independent inspection that the car was of satisfactory quality. She said that in relation to the 
issue with the engine, this wasnt something which Ms P had previously  complained about to 
either the dealer or Close Brothers and that she should obtain  a report  to show that there 
was a fault.
Ms P didnt agree. She felt that the photos  shed provided showed that the car was 
consuming more fuel than it should.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Close Brothers has supplied the car under a hire purchase  agreement theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what  a  reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable, taking into account  factors such as the age and mileage of the car and 
the price paid. I would  expect a  second  hand  car, such  as that supplied  in this case,  to have 
a degree of wear  and tear and to require repairs more frequently than, for instance,  a brand 
new car. So in order  to uphold this complaint I would need  to be satisfied that there was a 
fault with the car at the point of supply as opposed  to general wear and tear.
Ref: DRN25873222Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  theres a presumption that a fault which  arises in the 
first 6 months  was present at the point of supply unless it can be shown otherwise. The 
business is allowed  one attempt to repair the fault and if this isnt successful the consumer 
can reject  the car. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer  
to show that the fault was present at the point of supply.
In this case, the issues were reported  within the first 6 months.  Repairs were  carried out 
which Ms P says werent  successful because the car continued to consume lots of fuel.
An expert engineers  report  can help to decide  whether  a car is of satisfactory quality. In this 
case, an inspection  of the car found no issues with engine performance or fuel consumption.
Ive considered the pictures provided  by Ms P which she says shows that the car consumes 
a lot of fuel. There  are a number of factors which can influence fuel consumption  in a car, 
including (amongst other things)  driving  too fast, old engine oil, dirty air filter, improper gear 
changes and low tyre pressure. I cant be certain of whether any of these  factors have 
affected the fuel consumption in this case.  
Based on what Ive seen  and without a clear diagnosis of a fault affecting fuel consumption 
by the independent  engineer, Im not persuaded that the car is of unsatisfactory  quality.
Ive noted that Ms P has recently raised  a new issue about the engine. This didnt form part 
of her original complaint  to Close Brothers so she would need to raise this with them  first 
before this service  could  look into it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2587322