K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained about CIGNA Europe  Insurance  Company SA-NVs decision to decline 
his claim under his personal accident  insurance  policy.
background
Mr T held a personal accident insurance  policy with CIGNA.  The policy would  pay benefit if 
Mr T were to suffer  a bodily injury which, within 52 weeks,  resulted in permanent disability, 
hospitalisation (of at least 24 hours) or death.
In 2015, Mr T made a claim for hospitalisation  benefit under  the policy,  saying that hed been  
hospitalised due to an injury to his nose. CIGNA obtained medical evidence  from which  it 
noted that Mr T had been admitted to hospital  and discharged on the same day, meaning he 
hadnt been hospitalised for at least 24 hours. It therefore declined the claim.
In 2019, Mr T complained  to CIGNA. He felt that the 2015 injury and a later accidental injury 
had resulted in him suffering permanent disability and so he thought  CIGNA  should  pay him 
benefit.
CIGNA didnt uphold his complaint. It said Mr T hadnt mentioned anything about having  
suffered a permanent disability  when  he made  his claim in 2015 and he hadnt  notified it of 
his later injury. It therefore hadnt  had an opportunity to decide whether he had a valid claim. 
However, it said that if he were to submit evidence from a medical professional (for example, 
his GP) confirming that hed suffered a permanent  disability  as a result  of an accident then it 
would consider this. 
Mr T was unhappy at CIGNAs response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied  
that CIGNA had acted  fairly.
Mr T didnt  accept the investigators findings.  He explained that he was unable  to obtain 
medical evidence  to support his case because his GP had retired.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The medical evidence  from Mr Ts 2015  claim shows that he wasnt admitted to hospital for 
24 hours or more. Im satisfied that he therefore wasnt  entitled  to hospitalisation benefit 
under the policy  and it was fair for CIGNA to decline his claim.
Mr T says that the 2015 accident, and a later accident, have left him with a permanent 
disability. However, the evidence  he previously  submitted in respect  of the 2015  accident 
didnt show this to be the case. In the first instance,  it is up to Mr T to provide evidence to 
support his claim. He hasnt yet submitted a claim form for permanent disability benefit or 
provided supporting  evidence  of this in respect of either injury. While  his former GP may 
Ref: DRN20068932have retired, this doesnt stop Mr T from obtaining supporting evidence from his current  GP 
who will have  access to his medical records.
In the absence of any evidence, Im satisfied that there is no obligation on CIGNA to pay 
benefit.
Mr T has also mentioned an accidental injury he suffered in 2009  and which he reported  to 
CIGNA at that time. However, the investigator told Mr T that any complaint about  CIGNAs 
decision not to pay benefit in respect of that injury was now time-barred under our rules and 
Mr T accepted this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2006893