K821x#15complaint
Mr F says Airdrie  Savings  Bank  (Airdrie) mis-sold him a single premium payment  protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy  when he took out a loan.
background
In 1992 Mr F took out a loan repayable over a term of 24 months. At the same time he was 
sold a single premium  PPI policy to cover  his payments for the loan term if he was unable to 
work due to accident or sickness or lost his job. The loan was for £1400 and the cost of the 
policy £150.08 with interest charged  on the PPI premium  of £33.12.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because  he didnt think  there  was 
enough evidence  to show that Airdrie  had given Mr F the opportunity during the sales  to 
actively confirm that he wanted to take PPI out.  
Airdrie disagreed. So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Fs complaint.
For the following  reasons  Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Airdrie had to make  clear  to Mr F that the PPI was optional  and make sure Mr F agreed to 
take it. Mr F says this wasnt done.  Airdrie have given us a copy  of the credit agreement  
which it says makes  it clear the policy was optional. So in coming  to my decision Ive mainly 
relied on this document. 
Ive looked at this document carefully.  I can see on the right of the agreement  under LOAN 
DETAILS it shows the cost of the loan and insurance premium.  Though  there is no 
explanation as to what the insurance  premium  is for or that it is an optional  product  it very 
much looks  as though  it is standard on the credit agreement.
Further down the agreement I can see that in the loan details section it says in small caps:
DISABILITY & UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE  COVER WILL BE ARRANGED UNLESS 
WE ARE ADVISED TO THE CONTRARY. Please mark box (X) if cover  is NOT  
REQUIRED.
There is no cost given  for this insurance or any explanation as to what  it covers - just that 
unless Mr F marks  the box insurance will be included.  On Mr Fs credit  agreement the box 
has been left clear so PPI was been included automatically.
And because it was included automatically I cant say whether Mr F actively  agreed to take 
the policy or understood that it was an optional product.
Airdrie says it wouldve  been clear to Mr F from the paperwork sent after the sale that he had 
PPI. But this doesnt show me Mr F agreed to the policy before  the sale. 
Ref: DRN21014632So taking everything into account, I cant say its likely  was made clear to Mr F that the PPI 
was optional or that he agreed to take it. So it follows that I uphold  this complaint.
what Airdrie should  do to put things right
Mr F borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve  been and he 
paid more than he shouldve each month.  So Mr F needs to get back the extra hes paid. 
So, Airdrie  should:
Work  out and pay Mr F the difference between what he paid each month  on the loan and 
what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr F paid each month  from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from 
then on.
If Mr F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Airdrie can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Airdrie to take off tax from this interest.  Airdrie  must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Fs complaint against Airdrie  Savings  Bank  and 
direct it pay the fair compensation  outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2021.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2101463