K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays)  mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B remortgaged their property in 2002. At the same time they were sold a PPI 
policy which  would have  covered their mortgage  repayments for up to a year at a time if Mr 
B was involuntarily unemployed. 
Mr and Mrs B say they werent aware of the PPI. They say there was no discussion about it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs B say they dont remember any discussion about  the PPI. They  say no questions  
were asked about it during the meeting where they applied for their mortgage and they didnt 
agree to buy it.
Barclays has provided the paperwork for the mortgage application. Theres  a separate  
section for the PPI after the main mortgage application. It makes it clear that the PPI is 
optional and Mr and Mrs B have selected the type and amount of cover as well as who 
would be insured. Theyve both signed  this section, as well as the complete mortgage  
application form. They also completed a separate direct debit mandate solely  for the PPI. 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs B may not remember  applying for the PPI but I am 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs B were aware of the PPI and that they elected to buy it knowing 
they had a choice about it.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, so it had to take steps to make  sure it was 
right for them. Looking at Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of sale I think  that it was. 
Mr and Mrs B chose  to buy it, so it seems they wanted this type of cover. Only Mr B was 
covered which, as he was the only one working,  was appropriate. Mr B wouldnt have been 
affected by any terms which might have made it more difficult to make a claim,  such as 
those related to self-employment. The cost of the cover was comparable  to other similar 
policies on the market around the same time and I havent seen any evidence to suggest  it 
was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B. 
Its possible Mr and Mrs B didnt  get all the information they ideally should have done about 
the policy. But I dont  think it would have made a difference to their decision to buy it, 
because it was suitable for them  in the way Ive described. So I dont think  Mr and Mr B lost 
out as a result of anything Barclays might have done  wrong.
Ref: DRN24740182Mr B says that he was made redundant while the policy was in place but that he didnt make 
a claim.  He says this was because he didnt know he had the policy. Ive already  explained 
that I am satisfied Mr and Mrs B were aware of the policy when they bought it, but its 
possible they forgot they had it afterwards. Mr B may wish to approach Barclays  to see if it is 
possible for him to submit a retrospective  claim.  Given the length of time since  the event I 
think this will be unlikely but Barclays will be able to advise Mr B.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, so Barclays Bank  UK PLC doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 November 2019.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2474018