K820x#14complaint
Miss H is unhappy that National  Westminster Bank  Plc hasnt been able to return money  she 
paid into various  timeshares in 2010  and 2011.
background
NatWest said in its final response that there  are strict  timescales  for making a chargeback  
request within  at most 540 days of a payment being  made. Here  that period has passed and 
it cant help Miss H as it is out of time to raise any refund claim. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
Miss H says she paid the money by cheque and debit  card.
Theres no way to get money returned  when its paid by cheque.  So, NatWest hasnt 
taken any action  on these  payments.
When a payment is made by debit card NatWest can raise a chargeback  on Miss Hs 
behalf. But this is only possible  within  540 days of the transaction  being made. Here  
Miss H made her chargeback request to NatWest in 2018 which  is between  seven 
and eight years after the transactions. As this request  was made over the 540 day 
time limit period, NatWest isnt able to complete a chargeback.
Even if the transactions had been made by credit card NatWest wouldnt have been 
able to pursue  a section 75 Consumer Credit Act claim for Miss H as theres a six 
year time limit on them.
As NatWest has said it cannot take any further action to help Miss H or to refund 
money to her, due to the amount of time thats gone by. It hasnt  done  anything 
wrong when dealing with Miss Hs complaint.
Miss H doesnt agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. In summary she says the 
breach of contract didnt happen at the same  time as her purchase of the timeshares. She 
only became aware of it years later. She thinks  NatWest should assist  her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with the unfortunate situation  Miss H has found herself in but the simple fact is 
NatWest isnt able to help her get a refund of the payments she made because some  were 
made by cheque and in the case of other payments on her debit card because  of the time 
thats gone by.
Money paid by cheque cannot  be returned  and theres nothing NatWest  can do to try to get 
this money back for Miss H.
NatWest can make  a chargeback request for payments  made by debit  card but only if that 
request is made within 540 days of the actual  transaction. Here Miss H didnt raise  the 
Ref: DRN21086502chargeback request until 2018 long after the 540 day periods from the transaction dates in 
2010 and 2011 had ended.
Miss H says she only found out there  had been misrepresentation or breach of contract  by 
the companies she paid the money to, some years after the transactions. But Im afraid here 
that isnt relevant. All that matters is that the chargeback request is made  within 540 days  of 
the actual transaction. And here it wasnt. So, NatWest cannot assist  her further in seeking a 
refund of the money she paid on her debit card.
I understand how frustrating this is for Miss H but NatWest hasnt done anything wrong. And 
I cannot fairly or reasonably ask it to do anything more including refunding  any of the money 
she paid out on these transactions, as shed  like.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2108650