K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that a car she is financing through an agreement with Close  Brothers 
Limited (Close Brothers)  is of unsatisfactory quality. Shed therefore like to reject it and 
terminate her finance agreement.
background
Miss H took receipt of a used vehicle on 14 September 2018.  She funded the deal through a 
conditional sale with Close  Brothers. At the point  of supply the car had completed 53,000 
miles and was eight  years  old.
Miss H has provided evidence to show she returned  the car to the dealership  on three  
occasions between  November and December 2018  because the heater wasnt working and 
also because the headlight bulbs kept failing. She said shed had to replace the headlight 
bulb on four occasions and that the dealership replaced the heater matrix and a coolant  pipe 
to try to resolve the heating problem. 
In March 2019 Miss H complained to Close Brothers. She said the problem with the heating 
had never  been  properly  resolved and the side window still steamed up. She also said the 
headlamp was still going out and shed like to be allowed to reject  the vehicle because  it was 
of unsatisfactory  quality.
Close Brothers organised  an inspection of the car by an independent engineer  and he said 
the problem with the heating was probably due to a faulty head gasket. He went  on to 
suggest that, given the time and mileage Miss H had covered in the car, it was most likely 
the fault had developed at some  point after the car was supplied to her. 
He also noted  several  fault codes to do with various  electrical issues such as an alternator 
electrical fault and shorts  to the lamp circuit; distribution motor and fuel sensor.  He checked 
the electrical system  and at the time of inspection he said there  were  no problems. But he 
said the vehicle  should now be checked  under  workshop conditions.
So Close Brothers  said that as there was no linkage between this fault and the previous 
ones and this heater fault wasnt present at the point of supply, they wouldnt allow  Miss H to 
reject the car. 
Miss H was disappointed with their response  so she referred her complaint to this service  
and our investigator provided  his opinion. He noted that although the dealership had 
suggested theyd  only attended to the car once in 2018, there  was compelling evidence 
provided by Miss H that theyd seen the car for the same issue  on three occasions. But he 
understood that at that time Miss H had accepted  repairs to her vehicle.  He thought  that it 
was fair to suggest  that it was Close Brothers  responsibility to demonstrate that the current  
problems werent linked to the previous ones and he was personally  persuaded that it was 
most likely they were.  So he thought it was fair to suggest Close Brothers  allowed  Miss H to 
reject the vehicle and that they return her deposit  to her and terminate the finance 
agreement. And he thought it was clear  there  had been times shed been without the car so 
he suggested they return one finance  instalment  to her and also compensate  her for the 
inconvenience shed  experienced by paying a further £150.
Miss H agreed with the investigators opinion but the business  didnt.  They accepted that as 
the car had been with Miss H for less than six months it was for them  to demonstrate  the 
Ref: DRN28269062fault hadnt been there at inception. But they said thats what  theyd done: the independent  
engineer had explained that it wasnt likely the fault was there  from the beginning. So they 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss H acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. The relevant law says that the 
car should have  been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt  then Close Brothers  
are responsible. I take account of relevant law when deciding  what  is fair and reasonable. 
On this basis if I thought  the car was faulty when supplied, Id think it fair and reasonable to 
ask Close  Brothers to put this right. 
But Close Brothers  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for 
its condition at the point of supply  they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Wed usually assume that if a car developed a fault in the first six months it was likely to 
have been there from the point of supply  so I agree that it was for Close Brothers to 
demonstrate the fault was a new one. 
Here the independent  engineer has suggested  that the head gasket fault was probably  not 
developing at the point of supply. But I think he had limited information available  to him. 
We now know that Miss H had returned  the car on several occasions to the dealership. 
Legislation may have allowed her to reject the car on her second visit when the fault she was 
complaining of doesnt appear to have  been fixed.  But she chose to get the car repaired 
instead and did so again later in the year. With this additional knowledge I think  it becomes 
more likely that the problem with the car in March was related to the ones  recorded  at the 
end of the previous year and Im persuaded that they are most likely to be linked. I note that 
the independent engineer would also seem to have been prepared  to support that argument 
if hed known the full service  history at the time as, in his report, he said:
if the vehicle has been presented previously  for repair   these have clearly been  
unsuccessful
So Im persuaded  that the repairs to the heating system have most likely not been 
successful and I therefore think it would now be reasonable to allow  Miss H to reject the car.
And even  if Im wrong  about  the heating system faults its clear  this vehicle has suffered 
other problems. Theres been  little said of the headlight failures and I can see that theres 
evidence in the engineers  report of shorting to several components in the past. Relevant 
Ref: DRN28269063legislation does not give a business one chance  to repair each separate fault that may occur. 
Whether a vehicle is of satisfactory quality when supplied refers  to the vehicle as a whole not 
each separate  component. Indeed the more  separate faults - the more  likely it is the vehicle 
isnt of satisfactory quality. And here I dont think Miss Hs car has been.
Her use of the car has clearly been impaired by these issues especially given that the fault 
was over the winter  period when she wouldve needed the heating.  So I agree with the 
investigators suggestion that Close  Brothers return one monthly finance instalment in 
recognition of loss of use. I also think they should  pay compensation to Miss H for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. Id agree that £150 is fair in the 
circumstances. And in line with our usual approach in these matters they should return  
Miss Hs deposit.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited  to:
allow Miss H to reject the vehicle  and collect it at no cost to her
cancel the finance agreement with nothing further to pay other  than any arrears
remove any adverse reports they may have made to the credit  reference agencies in 
relation to this agreement
refund  the deposit of £500  and add 8% simple  interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
refund  one finance instalment to reflect loss of use
pay Miss H £150 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience this issue  
has caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2826906