K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains about issues  shes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited.
background
In September  2017 Mrs H was supplied with a car and entered  into a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS. The purchase  price  of the car was £26,450. The car was less than 
a year old at the point  of supply and had covered  8,407 miles.
Within the first week, Mrs H noticed  a judder  when  braking. The car was taken to the garage 
where it was found that the nearside front brake  disc was warped. Front discs  and pads 
were replaced under  warranty.
In August  2018  Mrs H experienced  the same issues. The car was taken to the garage where 
it was found that it needed new front discs and pads again.  
In January 2019 Mrs H complained to BMWFS.  She said the car had a knocking noise and 
she didnt think the previous repairs  had resolved  the issues.
In its final response BMWFS said that Mrs H had made three warranty  claims since  
purchasing the car in September 2017.  It said there  was no evidence that the car was faulty 
at the point of supply.
Mrs H wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. She wants to reject the car.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She felt that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality for 
reasons of durability. She said a reasonable person wouldnt expect to replace  brake  pads 
and discs twice  in a car of this age and mileage. The investigator recommended that Mrs H 
be allowed to reject the car.
BMWFS didnt agree. It disputed the report from the third party garage insofar as it said that 
cheaper or incorrect pads  had been fitted  during  previous repairs. It also said there was no 
evidence that the knocking noise was a fault.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMWFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres  an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would regard 
as acceptable,  taking into account such as the age and mileage of the car, the price paid, 
fitness for purpose,  safety and durability. I would expect a nearly new car such  as that 
supplied to Mrs H to be of a very high standard. 
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first 6 months,  its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed  one attempt at 
repairing the fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car.
Ref: DRN23894802Mrs H and BMWFS  disagree  about  whether the car had a fault at the point of supply, and 
about whether  the fault has ben successfully repaired. In order  to reach  a decision, I need to 
look at the available evidence and determine,  on the balance of probabilities,  whether the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
An expert engineers  report  can help with deciding whether theres  a fault and whether the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  In this case, BMWFS was asked to 
arrange an independent inspection but it said it didnt think this was necessary because  
Mrs Hs local BMW  retailer  was an appropriate expert.
I can see that the car has been repaired at Mrs Hs local BMW retailer  on three  occasions.  
Two of these occasions relate to the juddering noise and the front discs  and pads. Ive taken 
into account the job cards. Ive also had regard to a report from a third party garage obtained 
by Mrs H in July 2019.
Looking at the job cards, I can see that a brake  judder  was confirmed in September 2017. A 
warped disc was diagnosed and the front discs and pads were  replaced. The mileage at this 
point was 8,628.
A brake judder was confirmed again  in August 2018 and the front brakes and discs were  
found to need replacing again.  The mileage at this point was 13,799.
In July 2019 the third party garage found a knocking  noise coming  from the front brake  pads 
moving in the callipers. It said that new brake pads were required.
Looking at the job cards and the third party garage report, Im persuaded that there was a 
fault with the car at the point of supply which the garage attempted  to repair  by replacing  the 
brake pads  and discs.  The same  fault arose in August 2018 and the same  repair  was carried  
out. During this time the car had covered approximately 5000  miles.
BMWFS has said that the brake  pads  are wear and tear items. Whilst I agree that brakes  are 
component parts which require replacement from time to time, I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect  to have to replace brake  pads  and discs every  year,  or every  5000 miles. 
Taking into account the fact that the pads and discs  needed replacing again in August 2018, 
I dont think the repairs  in September 20167 were  successful. 
I think a reasonable  person would expect  new brake  pads and discs to last a reasonable 
period of time. In this case they needed  replacement very soon after the point of supply and 
after that they only lasted 11 months.  Taking  account of the fact that this is a nearly new car 
with low mileage, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think Mrs H should  be allowed to reject  the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  BMW Financial Services  (GB) Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mrs H.
Refund the deposit together with simple interest  at 8% from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Ref: DRN23894803Refund the cost of the third party garage report
Pay compensation of £250 for trouble  and upset
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2389480