K820x#14complaint
Mr T says American Express Services Europe Limited (AmEx)  mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ts credit card account when  he applied  for the card by post. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint  because:
I think AmEx made Mr T aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to take it. 
Mr T said initially he thought the way the tick boxes  were laid out made  it look as if the 
PPI was a reward. He now thinks the way they were  laid out suggests  the PPI was 
compulsory. Ive looked at the form Mr T completed. The PPI and rewards scheme 
boxes are next to each  other,  but theres no suggestion that they are linked  or that 
either is compulsory. 
AmEx didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
him. Thats the case even if Mr T already held a card with AmEx,  as he says he did. 
Mr T ticked  to both get the PPI and confirm  his eligibility for the insurance as described 
in some  accompanying  information.  That suggests AmEx did send Mr T information 
about the PPI, even  if he no longer  remembers this. Its possible the information AmEx 
gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have  been.  But Mr T chose to take 
out the policy and so appears to have  wanted  this type of cover. He was not affected  by 
any of the exclusions  or limitations and the policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable.  I think it unlikely Mr T would have made a different decision if 
better information had been provided. On balance I think he would still have taken out 
the policy.
Mr T says AmEx took advantage of his relatively  weak position compared to AmEx itself. I 
havent seen anything that supports this. The invitation to apply for the card was sent and 
returned through the post  and Mr Ts told us he didnt speak to AmEx  during that process. 
So it appears Mr T made the decision to get the card and buy the PPI in his own time, 
without any influence from AmEx. Ive already explained why I think AmEx did enough to 
make it clear  the PPI was optional, and I cant see anything else that suggests AmEx  acted  
improperly towards Mr T.
Ref: DRN24621052Mr T also says AmEx breached Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) principles. Other  than the 
points Ive covered  above, I can see AmEx  acknowledged it didnt tell Mr T about the level of 
commission it was going to receive  and has offered to refund some of this. Thats what  Id 
expect a business to do where its made  a mistake. The offer is in line with the FCA 
recommendations, and Ill leave it with Mr T whether he wants  to accept the refund. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2462105