K820x#14complaint
Ms W is unhappy  with the service  she received  from AXA Insurance  UK Plc when she made 
a claim on her travel insurance  policy.  
background
Ms W was on holiday when  she became very unwell. She was admitted to intensive  care 
where she received  treatment. Ms W was travelling with her daughter,  Mrs R, who also 
represents Ms W in relation to this complaint. In summary, Mrs R says that they received no 
assistance from AXA and organised the repatriation by themselves. They  say they also had 
to pay around £12 000 in medical and other expenses. 
Mrs R also told us she injured her foot helping Ms W off the plane.  She says this has led to 
her taking time off work and she holds  AXA responsible  for this, including  her loss of 
earnings. 
In summary,  AXA says Mrs R arranged the repatriation  before theyd had chance  to verify 
the cover  and form a repatriation plan. AXA agreed  to pay approximately  £11 722 towards 
the expenses  Ms W incurred and said theyd pay for unused  pre-booked accommodation  
upon receipt of the booking confirmation. In their final response letter they also offered £100 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused during  the claims handling 
process.
Ms W made a complaint to our service.  Our investigator thought this was a fair outcome as 
AXA hadnt  had time to make any arrangements. She also explained that Mrs R wasnt party  
to the contract  of insurance and so our service couldnt make an award for her distress and 
inconvenience. 
Ms W didnt  agree. Mrs R, on her behalf, says that AXA arent  telling the truth and the 
treating hospital  told them  shed been  admitted to hospital very early  on. Mrs R explained the 
hospital should be able to confirm this was right. Our investigator and Mrs R tried to get 
more information  from the treating hospital.  The hospital sent across  Ms Ws medical 
records but didnt  confirm the date they first contacted AXA. So, I need  to make a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN28219362Im really  sorry  to hear about the experience  Ms W and Mrs R had whilst on holiday.  I have  
no doubt that the severity of Ms Ws condition made it a stressful  and upsetting time. 
Experiencing a medical emergency abroad  is distressing  and inconvenient.  My role is to 
decide whether  AXA responded appropriately  in the circumstances. As our investigator 
explained Mrs R wasnt party to this contract of insurance. So, I can only reach a decision 
about any trouble  and upset Ms W experienced, not Mrs R. 
Our service is an informal alternative to the courts which aims to resolve  complaints with 
minimal formality. Mrs R has made  a number of detailed representations  on Ms Ws behalf. 
But Ill only refer to those  I think are central to my decision. 
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt unreasonably  reject a claim. Im not upholding 
Ms Ws complaint because: 
Mrs R told us that shed been  given assurance  that the hospital had contacted AXA 
once Ms W was admitted to hospital.  Theres no record of this on AXAs file and 
theres no supporting  evidence from the hospital to show  when contact was first 
made. I appreciate Mrs Rs surprised the hospital may have admitted Ms W, and later 
discharged her, without involvement  from AXA. But theres no evidence they were in 
contact with AXA and none of the reports are addressed  to, or refer to, AXA.  
I can understand why Mrs R relied on what the hospital told her. But the terms of the 
policy say its the responsibility of the policyholder, or someone appointed on their 
behalf, to make  contact with the emergency assistance line if theres a medical 
emergency as soon as possible. I appreciate  that Ms W was very unwell and I Mrs R 
would have primarily been concerned for her welfare. But I think  it would have been 
reasonable for Mrs R to contact AXA before 22 June 2018 as by that point Ms W had 
been in hospital for around  a week. One of Mrs Rs complaints is that she didnt hear 
from AXA at all during  that period of time so its surprising that Mrs R didnt get in 
touch to make sure AXA knew what was happening and were aware of the situation. 
I think its most likely  Mrs R didnt hear from AXA because  they didnt know about the 
potential claim
Mrs R has pointed to inconsistencies  in the dates that AXA said they first became 
aware of the claim. When deciding what is most likely to have happened, the 
available evidence  suggests to me that AXA werent  aware  of Ms Ws admission until 
the 22 June 2018.  Theres a note dated  the morning of the 22 June 2018 (UK time) 
which says: 
Mom admitted since 16/6 with pneumonia no pmh daughter said they wanted 
to pay the bill as Hap Sunday 2am. But they couldnt explained procedure 
topld (sic) I wasnt sure that they would  be ablet(sic)  o make hap but thatwe 
(sic) would need documents  first. Explained pmh process repat  process as 
well. cust was in ICU but isnt anymore 
So, I think this was the point AXA were made aware  of the claim, particularly bearing 
in mind that Ive seen  no supporting evidence  to confirm the hospital were in touch 
with AXA before this date.  I also note that in this call the notes say AXA explained to 
Mrs R that she may not be able to return on their original flights  and cover  would  
need to be verified  
Ref: DRN28219363Mrs R provided  a series of medical  reports from the period of time that Ms W was in 
hospital. But Ive seen no evidence to confirm  these  were  being sent on to AXA by 
either the hospital or Mrs R. So, I cant fairly  conclude AXA was in possession  of the 
reports before 22 June 2018  
I dont think AXA failed to give Ms W and Mrs R reasonable assistance. I can entirely 
appreciate that they were anxious  to get home on their original flight. But there was a 
short window of time between Ms Ws discharge and the flight home. Ms W was 
recovering from being in intensive care so AXA needed to review  the relevant  
information and arrange the repatriation process.  This usually involves liaison 
between AXAs medical team,  the treating hospital  and Ms W 
Id expect repatriation  to take place  within a reasonable  timescale,  appropriate to the 
level of urgency of a case. The medical  report was received  by AXA at around 1740 
(UK time). On 23 June  at 1421  UK time (2021  local time) AXA reviewed a medical 
report which confirmed Ms W had been  discharged. They did so within  less than 
24 hours which I think was a reasonable timescale  given that Ms W had been 
discharged and was no longer receiving medical treatment
AXA planned a call back  to establish if Ms W had returned  to the UK. However, in the 
meantime, Mrs R and Ms W took their original flight departing at 0225  on 24 June  
local time (2025 on 23 June  UK time). There wasnt much time between  the review of 
the medical report and Ms Ws planned departure
The planned call back took place at 1023  on 24 June (UK time) by which  time Ms W 
and Mrs R were  already on their way home.  But I dont  think  the timescales  were  
unreasonable in the circumstances of this case. I bear in mind Ms W had been 
deemed fit to fly with a non-medical  escort which indicates that she was recovering 
from her illness.  Overall, based  on the evidence Ive seen,  I dont think that AXA had 
a reasonable opportunity to arrange  upgrades or assistance due to the fact that 
Ms W and Mrs R went home on their original flights rather than waiting for AXA to 
review the medical  evidence, liaise  with them and arrange help 
Ms W says that she arrived at the airport to find that no business  class seats had 
been booked for their return  to the UK. AXA has been unable  to locate a number of 
calls Mrs R says she made at this time.  But I dont  think  thats central to the outcome 
of this complaint.  Although the fit to fly certificate does state that business class 
seats needed to be booked theres  no evidence of any clear  communication  between 
Mrs R, AXA and the treating hospital which demonstrates a repatriation plan was 
agreed or confirmed.  This would have taken  planning, and input from AXAs  medical 
team. So, its unclear  to me why Mrs R and Ms W expected this to be done in time for 
them to go home on their original return flight especially given the tight timescales 
involved
Mrs R says that she injured her foot helping Ms W, whilst doing AXAs job for them.  
She says this happened whilst she protected her mother  from another passengers 
falling suitcase. Shes had time off work and has explained that this has impacted on 
her job and overall health. Im sorry to hear that Mrs R was injured but I dont think 
its reasonable to conclude  that AXA was responsible for this. In reaching this 
conclusion I bear in mind what Ive said above  about the timescales involved and 
there being no firm agreement about the repatriation plan for Ms W would involve
Ref: DRN28219364I understand Ms W was admitted to hospital  after her return  to the UK. Im really 
sorry to hear that as I can see she was unwell. Mrs R has attributed  this to AXAs 
handling of the case. But Ive not seen  medical evidence to confirm thats the case 
and I think its unlikely  based  on the information Ive been  provided with. For 
example, one of the medical conditions  she was treated for in the UK had previously  
been screened whilst Ms W was abroad  and her results were  clear
I can see that AXA has settled  the expenses aspect of the claim and based on the 
available evidence  I think they have acted reasonably.  Whilst they have asked for 
some more  information its to ensure they are covering valid expenses  under the 
policy. AXA says it acknowledges that Mrs R may well have been passed to different 
departments during  the claims process. But I think £100 trouble  and upset fairly 
reflects any trouble  and upset caused to Ms W as a result.  
my final decision
Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
Im required  to ask Ms W to accept or reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2821936