K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains IPS Pensions Limited (trading as James  Hay Partnership) (IPS) encashed 
the investments  in his pension plan and he lost out as they werent reinvested as planned.
background
Mr S said hed been given advice to disinvest his existing portfolio and transfer it to a new 
investment plan to be held within  his existing SIPP structure. His adviser said they had 
checked with IPS that the new investment could be held within his SIPP. The instructions 
were issued and the disinvestment went ahead but not the reinvestment. It was only then 
that his adviser  was told the new investment couldnt be held in the SIPP.  This caused delay, 
cost Mr S further SIPP fees and he needed  additional advice to review  his options. There 
was an administration  fee of £175,  an annual platform fee of £71.06 and a module fee of 
£100. He said IPS shouldve told his adviser  they couldnt hold what was proposed before he 
acted. When the instruction to disinvest and reinvest was issued they shouldve advised  the 
investment wasnt possible before disinvesting and leaving Mr S in cash.
IPS accepted it had made an error  and said it was sorry. However it said that during the time 
of disinvestment between August and September 2018, the standard index it used to 
measure loss had fallen. As a result Mr S hadnt suffered any financial loss.
The investigator said IPS accepted itd made  a mistake. He needed  to consider what  Mr S 
wouldve done. He said it was difficult to be certain  but on balance he thought  Mr S would 
still have disinvested as he didnt reinvest when  he was aware  of the problem. Although he 
later transferred part he couldnt  be certain this wouldve  happened  from the outset and 
might have opted to invest  in another fund that could  be held in his SIPP.  He felt the best 
way to measure  any potential financial loss was to use the FTSE UK Private  Investors  
Balanced fund benchmark. IPS had already done  this and it showed that during the period  
the index fell. This meant Mr S didnt suffer financial loss due to the mistaken  advice about 
the proposed  new investment. He also felt it was reasonable to continue to apply SIPP  fees 
in accordance with IPS terms  during  this time.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he was paying ongoing  charges for a SIPP he didnt need. He 
didnt think the benchmark comparison was relevant. Fairness  meant that ex gratia 
recompense should  be made for the mistake. He suggested  waiving  the SIPP fee would be 
reasonable or some other form of one off payment was appropriate. The investigator didnt 
agree. He said the SIPP fees were being  applied in accordance with the terms and 
conditions and the SIPP remained active so they were  appropriate.  IPS had nothing further 
to add.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said that IPS had accepted it made a mistake  
so my decision  needed to focus on any award for financial loss and distress  and 
inconvenience. 
In considering an award for loss I needed  to seek to put Mr S back in the position he 
wouldve been in but for the mistake. It was hard to establish what  that positon would be. 
Mr S did eventually transfer out part of his investment. In such  circumstances I think  it is 
reasonable to use an index  to assess any financial loss due to the delay in reinvestment.  
Ref: DRN26260612The index suggested by IPS is reasonable and demonstrated that Mr S wouldnt have 
suffered a loss from being disinvested during the time and he has not disputed  this. 
However Mr S has said he was put to additional  cost by the mistake.  In particular he needed 
to take further  investment advice. He suggests  further administration  and SIPP fees but it 
isnt clear what these are for. But for the mistake he wouldnt have needed to take further  
advice. However he has since confirmed that he wasnt charged so I dont need  to make an 
award for this.
I have considered the continued SIPP fees that are being charged in accordance with the 
terms and condition of the SIPP. I thought it was reasonable that IPS should continue  to 
charge these fees. I said that because Mr S continued to have funds in the SIPP. While he 
said he was paying  for something he doesnt need, it is open to him to transfer out his 
remaining money. He hasnt explained why it wasnt possible to transfer all of his funds, but 
to the extent that he has money in his SIPP it is reasonable that these fees should be 
applied.
He also claims  that he needed to pay and administration fee of £175 and a WOM  fee of 
£100. As Mr S could  never have  proceeded with the original investment it seems reasonable 
to assume he would always have been advised  to invest  as he eventually  did. As the fees 
seem to be as a result of the new investment he would always have had to pay them.  So I 
havent made an award for these.
I have also considered whether to make an award for distress  and inconvenience.  Such  an 
award seeks to reflect  the impact  on Mr S and isnt a punishment for IPS. From the 
complaint it is clear that Mr S was put to inconvenience by the delayed investment and need 
for further  advice so I think  an award is fair and reasonable. I think the impact  was moderate 
and an award of £150 would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I proposed to uphold  the complaint and direct that IPS Pensions  Limited  (trading as 
James Hay Partnership) should  pay Mr S £150 for distress and inconvenience.
IPS accepted my provisional decision.
Mr S said he welcomed  the offer of £150  but still thought he shouldnt  suffer  the ongoing 
SIPP costs.  He said the only reason he was not charged for additional investment advice to 
complete the pension  switch was because the adviser absorbed  the costs.  It didnt  think it 
was fair to charge Mr S due to an error  by IPS. It also assumed IPS would offer an ex gratia  
payment and waiver  of ongoing SIPP fees.  He said he wasnt  able to transfer the residual 
element of his investment because it was in an illiquid asset.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  changed  my 
mind.
I note that Mr S says his adviser didnt make a charge for further  investment  advice.  As a 
consequence he hasnt  suffered any loss and I cannot make an award  where there is no 
financial loss. 
Ref: DRN26260613I note also that Mr S remains partly invested with IPS as he has an illiquid  asset. However it 
isnt the fault of IPS that the asset is illiquid and cannot be easily transferred. So I think it is 
reasonable that IPS should  continue to apply SIPP charges in accordance with its terms 
while assets remain invested with it.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct that IPS Pensions  Limited (trading as 
James Hay Partnership) should  pay Mr S £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2626061