K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The policy was taken out in 2006 when Mr H applied for a new credit  
card. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already told Mr H that they didnt think his mis-sale complaint 
should be upheld.  But Halifax  has offered to give back to Mr H some  of the cost of the PPI. 
Mr H still thinks  the PPI was mis-sold  in the first place  and has asked for an ombudsmans 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs mis-sale complaint.
Halifax wasnt able to send us a copy of Mr Hs original application form but as the sale was 
all quite a while ago, this isnt that unusual.  However  we were sent an example of the type of 
application form that was used at the time and I can see there was a box about PPI. To get 
the cover  added, the applicant would have  been expected to select this option on the form. 
Theres no dispute that Mr H was sold PPI, so I think  its more likely he asked for it on the 
application form by ticking the box. Looking at the form - and also considering  the type of job 
Mr H did at the time - I think  he would have understood the process  and that PPI wasnt 
something he needed to buy if he didnt want to.
Overall, I think Halifax got his consent  for the PPI.  
Halifax concedes this was probably an advised sale. This means it had a duty to make  sure 
the PPI was suitable for Mr H. I think it was.
I say this because  he was eligible for the PPI and I dont think  that hed have been caught  
by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies.  The monthly cost of the 
policy was 78p per £100  of the outstanding balance which was comparable with similar 
policies I know were  sold around that time.  Ive got no evidence to suggest this was 
unaffordable for Mr H. 
Mr H says he got sick pay with his job at the time.  Ive thought  about  this but Im afraid it 
doesnt necessarily  mean  the PPI wasnt of use. In the event of a successful claim for 
example, the PPI could have paid out 10% of his outstanding credit  card balance for up to a 
year. So having very carefully  considered everything Mr H has told us, I think the policy was 
suitable for him.
Halifax also had a duty to make  sure the information it provided was clear enough for Mr H 
to make an informed decision.  He says it wasnt and I obviously  cant say he was told 
Ref: DRN26607372everything he should have been told. But I can see he was sent a letter dated 30 January 
2006 explaining the cost of the policy and what it covered. 
All this means I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading  as Halifax 
doesnt need to refund everything Mr H paid for it. But its offered to give him back some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  Bank of Scotland Plc will make  
these arrangements now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt already done so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about the mis-sale. I dont 
direct Bank of Scotland  Plc to do anything more  than the above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2660737