K821x#15Complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank plc wont refund  transactions  on his current  account  
that he says he didnt make.
Background
Mr G says his card was stolen by someone  he befriended during a night out. He thinks  the 
individual  who I will refer to as Mr A  saw Mr Gs PIN when  they both withdrew cash from 
an ATM. Mr A then stole Mr Gs card while he was asleep and used it to withdraw cash from 
his account and for three point of sale transactions. In total, £583.44  was debited from his 
account.
The disputed transactions, which all took place  on 8 November, are listed  below:
Time Amount Type
09:37 £100.00 ATM withdrawal
10:47 £193.96 Point of sale transaction
10:49 £59.99 Point of sale transaction
11:20 £200.00 ATM withdrawal
11:27 £29.49 Point of sale transaction
There were also four unsuccessful attempts  to withdraw cash from an ATM, because  the 
withdrawal limit had been reached and one unsuccessful point of sale transaction.
Mr G realised the card was missing, and probably  stolen, when he woke  up between 11am 
and 12pm  and phoned the bank to report  it. The card was cancelled at 12.34pm.  Later that 
day he noticed the transactions on the account and reported them to the bank as he said he 
hadnt authorised  them.
HSBC didnt think the transactions were those  of a typical  fraudster  it would have  expected 
a third party to withdraw as much as they could as quickly as possible.  So it wouldnt refund 
the transactions.
Our investigators conclusion
Our investigator thought it more likely than not that Mr G didnt  make  or authorise the 
transactions. He didnt  think the activity on the card appeared to be that of someone who 
had the cardholders consent  and that there was an attempt to use the card after it had been 
cancelled. 
Our investigator thought Mr G probably failed to exercise reasonable care in shielding  his 
PIN when  he withdrew cash from an ATM  when he was with Mr A. But he didnt think  this 
amounted to gross negligence. He concluded  HSBC should refund the disputed transactions 
and rework the account as if the disputed transactions hadnt taken place.
Ref: DRN27369882HSBC didnt agree with our investigator. It said, in summary, that:
The person using  the card didnt carry out a balance  enquiry before the first disputed  
transaction, implying  they already knew the balance. If, as our investigator  suggested,  
the third party  saw the balance  when Mr G carried  out a balance  enquiry, they wouldve 
withdrawn more than £100.
It would have expected to see the account emptied as quickly  as possible using large 
transactions. Mr G says hes found  out that Mr A was known for similar crimes and has 
previous convictions, so he wasnt  acting  as an opportunistic fraudster as our 
investigator suggested.
There are gaps  between the transactions, including an hour between the first and 
second transaction. A fraudster would  have acted more  quickly  to get as much money 
as they could before the card was stopped.
Mr Gs testimony is unreliable. Hes changed  his mind about what transactions he 
disputes and hes mentioned other fraudulent transactions which took place on 
15 November, but there  werent any fraud  declines around that date.
Mr G failed to shield his PIN from a stranger.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were the disputed transactions authorised by Mr G?
Im satisfied from the evidence HSBC  has provided that whoever made  the transactions  had 
both Mr Gs genuine card and PIN.
So Ive gone  on to consider the possible explanations for how the disputed transactions  were  
made using  the genuine  card and PIN. These are that:
Mr G used his card and PIN to make the transactions.
Someone  probably  Mr A  used  Mr Gs card and PIN with his authority.
Someone  probably  Mr A  was able to obtain  Mr Gs card and PIN and use them to 
make the transactions without his authority or consent.
Ive considered which I think is the most  likely. I cant be sure exactly what happened;  its a 
decision I make on the balance of probabilities. Having considered this carefully, I think  its 
more likely that not that Mr G didnt  make or authorise the transactions.  Ill explain why.
I can see that HSBC cancelled Mr Gs card  while he was on the phone to it  at 12.34pm.  
There were attempted  point of sale transactions at 12.32pm  and 12.36pm.  I dont see how or 
why Mr G would have  been cancelling his card and trying to make transactions at the same 
time. And I think the person who attempted this transactions was, in all likelihood, the same 
individual who carried out all the disputed transactions. So I think that makes it very unlikely 
that it was Mr G who carried out the transactions.
Ref: DRN27369883Parts of Mr Gs testimony  particularly regarding  what transactions  he actually disputes - 
havent been consistent. And I will comment  further  on this later. But what  has been  
consistent is his version  of what he thinks happened  on the night of 7/8 November. Following 
an evenings  work Mr G and some friends  decided to have a night out. But, whilst in a taxi, 
they decided they wanted to go to different destinations. Mr G got out of the taxi, but found  
himself in an unfamiliar  area. His phone wasnt  working  and he didnt have any cash. So he 
tried to find an ATM. At some point, he bumped  into Mr A. Mr A convinced Mr G that they 
had mutual friends  and invited him to a nearby house party. Throughout the night, Mr G and 
Mr A made several trips to an ATM  to withdraw cash. The last transaction  was at 7.18am on 
the morning of 8 November.  Mr G says they then both returned to the house, where he fell 
asleep on the sofa. 
When he woke up  around  11.30am  he realised his card was missing. He used someone 
elses phone to report the card as stolen. As he pieced together  what  had happened the 
night before, he realised  that he had probably  been conned. This was confirmed in his mind 
when he asked his mutual friends about  Mr A and they confirmed they didnt know  him.
Mr G thinks Mr A must  have seen his PIN during one of the ATM transactions   Mr G made  
10 cash withdrawals at ATMs between 00.57am and 7.18am. I will comment  on whether 
Mr G acted unreasonably  in revealing his PIN later.
I think, based on what Mr G says, that its quite possible Mr A saw Mr G entering  his PIN 
during one of the ATM  transactions.  And that he was later able to steal Mr Gs card.
So I dont  think its likely  that Mr G carried out the transactions, or that he consented to 
someone else doing so.
Ive taken into account what HSBC says about  the transactions not being  those of a typical 
fraudster. And I agree  that we would usually expect to see a fraudster making  as many large 
transactions as possible over a short time period. But I agree with our investigator  I think  
this was an opportunistic  crime. Im not sure how Mr G has found  out that Mr A has previous 
convictions, when  Mr A seems to have given him a false  name   I think this is probably  
based on hear-say.
Did Mr G fail with intent or gross negligence to comply  with the obligations  set out in 
Regulation 57 of the Payment Services Regulations  2009?
Mr G says that he visited an ATM with Mr A on several occasions  during the night  - his 
statements show he made  10 separate cash withdrawals. And he recalls  one occasion 
where the buttons on the machine needed to be pressed fairly hard to register his PIN. Mr G 
had met someone  whose  company he was enjoying and  whilst hed met him on the street 
 had no reason  to believe  he wasnt genuine, particularly as he was able to quite easily 
convince Mr G that they had mutual friends.  
Mr G had an obligation to protect his PIN. Theres no evidence  that he didnt try to shield it. 
But, as he input his PIN with Mr A in close proximity on 10 occasions, its not surprising Mr A 
was able to work out what it was. When Mr G was doing that, Im persuaded that he wouldnt 
have had any reason to think that Mr A was trying to obtain his PIN with a view to having an 
opportunity  several hours later  to steal his card. So I dont find that Mr G acted with gross  
negligence.
In the circumstances, I think HSBC should refund the disputed transactions.
Ref: DRN27369884Mr Gs testimony
Mr G originally told the bank that the last transaction carried  out by him was at 1:07am.  He 
also said hed not authorised a contactless transaction on the afternoon  of 7 November. He 
was therefore  disputing eight ATM,  three  point of sale and two contactless  transactions.  
Later, he changed this to dispute two ATM,  three  point of sale and two contactless 
transactions. Following  the banks response to his appeal, he accepted  the two contactless 
transactions were  genuine.
I can see why HSBC  considers Mr Gs testimony to be unreliable. But, as noted above, Mr G 
has been consistent with what he thinks happened  that night. And I find his confusion  over 
what transactions were  genuine is reasonable given the circumstances of an all-night party, 
little sleep and the realisation that the person hed met wasnt  who hed made  himself  out to 
be and had more  than likely stolen his card.
Also, when the bank phoned Mr G to discuss the outcome of the fraud investigation, Mr G 
couldnt hear properly and had to leave where  he was and hold the conversation on the 
street. He was trying to identify the transactions from several sheets of paper which he says 
were blowing in the wind. Hed also been  given  two statements from the bank  one with the 
transactions in ascending date order and one in descending order. And, on various 
occasions, I dont  think Mr G was clear about whether the dates he was being given were for 
when the transactions took place,  or when they debited his account.  So I dont find it 
surprising that he got confused about what transactions he disputed.
The point of sale transaction which took place on 7 November was initially  disputed by Mr G 
because he didnt recognise the payee. But the payee was the business umbrella name with 
a number of underlying brands. Mr G was unlikely  to recognise the description unless hed 
been given the name  of the actual outlet hed visited.
Finally, during one of the phone calls with the bank, Mr G mentioned  hed received a call 
from HSBC about  three other transactions which took place on 15 November but which were 
all immediately reversed by the bank. Mr G implies these were also carried out by 
Mr A, but theres no evidence of this. The bank reversed the transactions  because  there 
wasnt enough money in Mr Gs account  to cover them.  I cant  explain why Mr G thought 
Mr A had attempted these transactions  although  he now recalls it was the payment service 
provider, rather than HSBC, that alerted him to the transactions.
I accept that Mr G hasnt always been as clear and consistent as HSBC wouldve  liked about 
whats happened here and the surrounding circumstances. These three  transactions  on 
15 November are an example of that. But these transactions arent the focus  of this decision.
In weighing  up the evidence that is available and considering whats most likely to have 
happened here on balance, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Mr G didnt 
authorise the listed transactions for the reasons Ive given.
Ref: DRN27369885my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
HSBC UK Bank plc should:
1. Refund the disputed transactions totalling  £583.44.
2. Rework the account as if the £583.44  didnt debit the account, adding  any interest 
Mr G missed out on.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2736988