K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mr H complain  that A J Bell Management Limited (AJ Bell) provided misleading 
information about the terms  of a joint dealing account and provided poor service.
background
Mr S and Mr H applied  for a joint dealing  account  in December 2017. After the account was 
opened, Mr S and Mr H became concerned  that they couldnt  both access the account and 
felt they had been misled about it. They also raised  concern that their future  tax liability might  
be affected by AJ Bells  delay in transferring funds from their mothers  account. Mr S and 
Mr H say that AJ Bell hasnt handled their complaint  fairly.
AJ Bell says it gave  clear information  about  the account and the nominated contact had sole 
responsibility for operating it. AJ Bell relies upon correspondence to show  that it responded 
to Mr S and Mr Hs requests and took steps to look at other ways in which  both Mr S and 
Mr H could have access to the joint account.
AJ Bell says that transfers from Mr S and Mr Hs mothers account were  made  within five 
working days, in line with their usual working  timeframes.
Our investigator considered the complaint  but didnt uphold it. She thought  the application 
form gave clear information about the respective roles of the account holders. Also she 
thought AJ Bell did respond to Mr S and Mr Hs concerns within  seven weeks of the initial  
complaint and whilst referral rights werent  given, Mr S and Mr H were aware of their right to 
bring the complaint to our service. Our investigator thought any issue with future tax liability 
was too speculative and so didnt  ask AJ Bell to do anything.
Mr S and Mr H disagree with the view so the matter has come to me for a final decision. 
Both parties  have provided their comments on my suggestion to award £250 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr S has raised concerns about  AJ Bells dealings with accounts belonging to his mother,  in 
which he acted as her representative.  These matters have been  addressed  in a separate 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is helpful to explain at the outset  that we provide an informal, impartial,  dispute 
resolution service. We have no disciplinary or regulatory powers, which means  we cannot 
tell a business how to operate or define the terms on which it provides a service.
account terms
Mr S and Mr H complain  that they were unable to both have access  to the joint account and 
both make withdrawals. They say AJ Bell failed to make things easier  for them  and it was 
misleading to call the account joint when in fact only one person could access it.
Ref: DRN23926992Ive looked at the terms of the account and the documents signed by Mr S and Mr H at the 
time. 
Part 12.7 of the terms and conditions for Joint  and Trust Accounts, says that, Only the 
Nominated Contact will have access to the secure area of our website.
On the first page  of the application form, under the heading first applicant, it says:
 
On page 3 of the application form there is another heading: create  username  for the 
nominated contact. This has been  completed  by Mr S and thereafter a handwritten note 
asks if a username can also be given for the second  applicant, Mr H. 
Its a matter for AJ Bell as to how it chooses to operate its accounts and as Ive explained,  
we dont have  the power  to tell it to operate differently. But in order to be fair to consumers, 
AJ Bell would need to provide clear information  about how the account  worked.  Having 
considered the documents from the time, I think it did this. The application  form explained 
that only the nominated contact would have authority to operate  the account. 
Mr S complains that one of the security  questions relates to the account holder rather than 
the account. But as the application form shows, the security questions were  specific to the 
nominated contact not all account holders. 
Taking everything into account,  I do not agree that AJ Bell misled  Mr S and Mr H about this 
joint account. And on balance, I also think it is likely that Mr S and Mr H understood that 
there was a nominated account  holder at the time they applied.  I say that as they asked if it 
was possible for a different username  to be given for the second account  holder.
I understand that it was Mr S and Mr Hs preference for both of them to be able to operate  
the account and make withdrawals. But if the terms of this account didnt meet their needs, 
they could have chosen not to open it.
When Mr S and Mr H raised their concerns with AJ Bell, attempts were made to find a 
workable solution,  so that both could access the account.  AJ Bell discussed the possibility of 
Mr S having  access to the joint dealing account through a linked individual account. This was 
set up in January  2018. It was also agreed  that Mr S and Mr H would be able to call AJ Bell 
and to obtain information about the account. I think this was a fair and reasonable response. 
I wont be asking AJ Bell to do anything  more.
service
Mr S and Mr H think AJ Bell failed  to provide a point of contact who could engage  about  the 
adequacy and effectiveness of AJ Bells  systems  and control mechanisms. They  thought AJ 
Bell took too long to consider their complaints. 
I can see that AJ Bell investigated Mr S and Mr Hs concerns  and explained why it thought it 
had provided clear information  about the joint dealing  account. It is unfortunate that referral 
rights werent provided to Mr S and Mr H but I cannot see that they were put to any 
disadvantage as a result  of this as they were aware  of and made use of the referral process. 
But I can see there were some delays in responding to Mr S and Mr H.
Ref: DRN23926993Mr S and Mr H also say they were misled  about transfers between their account  and their 
mothers account over a period of around three  weeks.  AJ Bell accepts that conflicting  
information was provided and theyve  apologised for this. Given  that this was a difficult  time 
for the family, I consider  it likely  that this confusion caused Mr S and Mr H unnecessary 
distress and upset.
Mr S and Mr H also say theyve suffered a loss because a request to transfer an asset on 24 
April 2018 wasnt completed until 1 May 2018.  But Ive seen that the transfer  was made 
within five working days, which is in line with AJ Bells usual timescales.
tax liability
Ive seen that AJ Bell gave conflicting  information about whether it was possible to transfer 
some assets  in specie  from Mr S and Mr Hs mothers account to their joint dealing account. 
This meant there was some delay  in the transfer being made. Mr S and Mr H havent  
evidenced any specific financial loss but they have alluded to potential, future tax liability  as 
a result of delays in the transfers by AJ Bell. They say they should  be compensated in case  
gifting rules are affected by this delay. Currently, Mr S and Mr H havent  suffered any loss 
and I cant fairly say whether a loss will materialise in the future. So I dont think  it is fair and 
reasonable to ask AJ Bell to do anything further.
putting things  right
I think its fair and reasonable to compensate Mr S and Mr H for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the provision of misleading information and delays in response to 
correspondence.
Taking everything into account,  I think £250  is a fair and reasonable award of compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding this complaint  in part, I direct  AJ Bell Management 
Limited to pay Mr S and Mr H a total of £250  in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2392699