K821x#15complaint
Mr C and Mrs B bring a complaint on behalf  of Mrs W about advice provided by Brewin
Dolphin Limited (Brewin) and Brewins management of her portfolios.
background
Mrs W and her late husband, each held a portfolio with Brewin.  The portfolios  were on a
managed advisory  service. From October 2014,  Mrs W and the late Mr W moved to a
discretionary investment  management service,  whereby the investment manager was
responsible for maintaining the appropriate blend of assets for the assessed level of risk and
their objectives. At a review in September 2014,  Brewin advised Mrs W and the late Mr W
that risk level 5 was appropriate for their needs.  Brewins guidelines say that this would
equate to roughly a 55% equity exposure  and some fixed interest exposure at about  32.5%.
When Mr W passed away in August 2017, his investments were transferred to Mrs W. It is
said on behalf of Mrs W that she and the late Mr W were vulnerable,  the portfolios were  not
managed in line with the recommendation and the split of investments was inconsistent  with
their attitude  to risk, especially given  their stage of life. It is said that proper reviews were not
undertaken. In April 2018, representatives  for Mrs W, directed Brewin to de-risk the portfolio
to level 3. This was undertaken promptly. Its said on Mrs Ws behalf that the fees charged
by Brewin for the discretionary investment management service should be refunded  for the
period October  2014 to when the portfolio was de-risked. Also, compensation should be paid
as the portfolio would  likely  have lost less had it been managed in line with a lower  level of
risk.
Brewin say that due to the quantity of unrealised  gains within  the portfolios, they had to be
de-risked slowly to avoid  capital gains tax (CGT). They point out that Mrs W had £67,000
worth of capital gains as at September 2014. Further, Brewin  maintain that regular reviews
were undertaken but as Mrs W and the late Mr Ws needs hadnt  changed,  the
recommendation remained sound.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  He thought Mrs W and the late Mr Ws attitude  to
risk was similar and their response to questions  identified  them  as wanting medium risk.
Brewin felt this was too high and recommended  risk level 5, said to be low to moderate
investment risk on their categories, which gave a higher level of equities to fixed  income
investments. Our investigator didnt think there were any concerns  about  Mrs W and the late
Mr Ws capacity  at the time reviews were  undertaken. Our investigator acknowledged  that
the equity split was above 55% but accepted Brewins point that reductions were made over
time due to the CGT allowance limit. Overall, he thought the advice given was suitable. He
thought there were  enough reviews and there  was no request from Mr and
Mrs W for the representatives to attend  the meetings.  Further, he hadnt  seen anything to
show that Brewin hadnt utilised the ISA allowances and considered that they held cash ISAs
with other  providers. Our investigator concluded that Brewin  hadnt  done anything wrong.
Mr C and Mrs B, acting  on behalf of Mrs W, dont agree. They  say there were health
concerns by 2017 and theres  no evidence  of a review meeting in 2015, which meant  the
gaps between reviews  were too long. The original recommendation in 2014,  gave different
investment terms, ranging from short to medium. Further, there was no evidence of a
discussion between Brewin and Mrs W and the late Mr W about  the level of their equity
holdings being  above 55% and no evidence of discussion about CGT, such  as paying some
Ref: DRN24521032CGT to preserve their capital. Also, no consideration appeared to have been given to ISA
allowances.
I wrote  a provisional decision in December 2019,  in which  I said:
It was not disputed that when the Brewin took over the portfolios under a discretionary
investment management  service in October  2014,  the equity holdings  were high and I
took that into account when making my decision.
Attitude to risk
I considered the documents from the time. In a needs assessment created on 26
September 2014, Mrs W and the late Mr Ws financial priorities were recorded  as income,
without too much risk. The investment management section recorded the specific
investment objectives  as income generation and capital growth without undue risk. I had
seen some inconsistencies within the risk questionnaires, whereby Mrs W and the late Mr W
ticked to say they strongly agreed to put their money in the stock  market and were prepared
to take an investment risk to have a chance  of making a better long-term  return. But they
were also relatively worried about  the volatility of the stock market and were  worried about
losing money on it.
Considering the response to the risk questionnaires,  Brewin  recorded Mrs W and the late Mr
W as falling  in a high-medium  risk category, wanting investment over the medium term (5
years). Brewin felt that level of risk was too high for Mrs W and the late Mr Ws
circumstances, so recommended investment at risk level 5 over a 3-5 year period. It was
recorded that fluctuations  in capital value were  less important to Mrs W and the late Mr W
than income generation. In the review letters of December 2014, Brewin  recorded that both
Mrs W and the late Mr W wanted to continue to produce a variable  (natural) additional
income, wanted growth over the short  term (3-5 years) and wanted the portfolio to maintain
its capital value.
Brewin explained to Mrs W and the late Mr W that maintaining the portfolios at risk level 5
would give some equity  exposure (circa 55%) and some fixed interest exposure (circa
32.5%). In the client services review  document of December 2014, Brewin recorded, we
agreed that this mandate would meet your objectives without taking on undue  risk by overly
exposing the portfolio  to equities but also not restrict the potential for longer term growth by
not having sufficient equity exposure to meet your needs.  You and [Mrs W] both decided
jointly that this level of risk was appropriate  given that you consider your financial
circumstances together  and we agreed to run the portfolios under the same level of risk.
It was noted that there was some  capacity for loss, as Mrs W and the late Mr W were not
solely reliant on income from the portfolios.  Further, it was acknowledged  that whilst the ISA
and portfolios, when  viewed  independently,  might not be appropriate for the level of risk
stated, the level of risk was appropriate  when considering the combined funds.
Suitability
I considered Brewins  risk guide, which defined risk level 5 as follows:
5 Low to moderate investment risk
You would like a significant proportion of your portfolio to be in higher-risk investments  and you are willing to accept a greater
short-term potential for losses from your overall  portfolio, in order to generate potentially higher long-term returns.  Your  portfolio
may typically have a higher exposure to equities  than fixed income investments and is likely to have low to moderate  levels of
Ref: DRN24521033market volatility.
Overall, I was not satisfied that the recommendation of risk level 5 was in line with Mrs W 
and the late Mr Ws needs.  Level 5 incorporated  a short-term potential  for losses, in order to
generate potentially higher long-term returns.  But Mrs W and the late Mr W sought growth
over the short-term and given Mr and Mrs Ws stage of life, I didnt  think it could sensibly be
said that they were  looking  to generate  potentially  higher long-term returns.  (Where  Ive seen
that Brewin consider  long-term to be 10+ years.)  The potential for long-term growth was also
inconsistent with their aim to keep inheritance tax as small as possible (see answers  in
needs assessment). Further,  the reference  to long-term returns  was inconsistent with the
investment objectives  of a 3-5 year investment  term. And I have seen that despite the
objectives being recorded as 3-5 years, Brewin later referred to a medium-term  horizon of 5
years, so there appears to have been  confusion around the period of investment. Having a
significant proportion  of the portfolio in higher-risk investments was also inconsistent with
Mrs W and the late Mr Ws requirement for steady income and capital  preservation.  Overall, I
considered the recommendation  of risk level 5, exposed Mr and Mrs W to more risk than 
was suitable for their circumstances.
Brewin said they advised Mrs W and the late Mr W to hold their overweight positions
initially given  concerns over likely rising interest rates and they pointed  out that the
equities were in blue-chip company shares or highly regarded  collectives.  There  was very 
little information  about what was said about  this at the time Mrs W and the late Mr W moved 
to the discretionary  investment  management service, but it was clear  that the adviser
thought risk level 5 was the appropriate exposure  of risk for Mrs W and the late Mr W. But
despite that express recommendation,  Brewin didnt manage the portfolio in line with risk
level 5.
The representatives said that the equity  split was closer to 68% when Brewin commenced
the discretionary investment management  service. Whilst I acknowledged that some time
would have been required in order to de-risk the portfolios, it was notable that the equity  split
was still over 58% by April 2018. Save  for one call note, there are no meeting notes  from the
time. I saw that when  Brewin  spoke to Mrs W and the late Mr W in 2016 and met in
2017, they continued to say that the portfolios were being managed  in line with level 5, when
in fact, the equity  split always  remained  above  the recommended level. I could not see any
discussion about the reality of the equity holdings.
Brewin said that CGT was a central consideration and they were unable to bring  the
holdings in line with the level 5 equity  split straightaway. They pointed out that there had 
been a reduction  in equity  holdings over time as by April the equity split was just over 58%. I 
was mindful not to make an assessment with the benefit of hindsight. But it was relevant that 
there was nothing to show that a discussion took place around balancing the reduction of
equities against the cost of paying  capital  gains tax (CGT). I was not satisfied that Mrs W 
and the late Mr W were  aware that it formed part of the rationale  for keeping the equity split
above the recommended banding  for level 5. If this had been such a key consideration, Id 
have expected to see reference  to it in the contemporaneous notes.
In fact, the review  letters dated December 2014 said:
As both your existing portfolio and the new mandate are similar in their asset allocation, we do not
foresee any significant changes to your investments  following our recommended  changes. In the
event that we do need  to make any changes we will of course be mindful  of CGT implications.
That suggested the reason for failing  to bring  the equity holdings in line with the
Ref: DRN24521034recommendation was because  Brewin considered the asset  allocation  split already met
level 5, which it didnt  at the time. Brewin also said theyd, endeavour to make  good use of
the CGT allowance. But there was no other record of CGT being  discussed at all. Theres  
also no record of an explicit discussion around ISA allowances, other than in the December 
2014 review where  Brewin stated  they would make  use of the annual  ISA allowance with 
funds from the main portfolio. As Id seen that funds were taken from the portfolio in line with 
this, I couldnt fairly say that no steps were taken with the ISAs.
Considering my findings above, I was satisfied  that the equity holdings remained higher than
the recommendation. This re-enforced my view that Mrs W and the late Mr W were  exposed
to more risk than was appropriate for their circumstances.
Reviews and vulnerability
Brewin said that reviews  were undertaken in 2014, 2015, 2016  and 2017.  But theres no
record of a review in 2015 and Brewin accepted  that if anything took place it didnt amount
to a suitability  review.
I had seen a file note in May 2016. It appeared that a call was made  to Mrs W and the late
Mr W, said to be a review  light. There was very little in the note, other than to say that the
previous full review  of 2014 was discussed, no changes were recorded.  Both Mrs W and the
late Mr W had been relatively  well.
At a meeting  in May 2017, it was recorded that there were  no material  changes and Brewin
recorded that the appropriate risk level remained at 5. No reasoning for this was set out.
So, whilst there were  some light touch reviews, I wasnt satisfied that Brewin undertook a
proper review of suitability at the review points. That was relevant because Id not seen
anything that showed the reality of the equity holdings was discussed  or addressed  with
Mrs W and the late Mr W and there was no mention of CGT  at the light reviews at all.
I appreciated that the representatives raised concern about Mrs W and the late Mr Ws
vulnerability, but I hadnt seen anything that shows  they lacked  capacity at the time.  The
notes showed  that they expressly  stated  that they didnt  want representatives
to attend meetings as at 2017  and that was a decision they were entitled to make.
When Mr W passed away in August 2017, his holdings were transferred to Mrs W.
Representatives then became involved in January 2018 and by April most of the portfolio
had been de-risked to risk level 3, with most work  being undertaken within a week  
(completing by June  2018). At review in May 2018,  Brewin recorded  that Mrs Ws level of 
risk was lower than before. The sole objective of the portfolio was to provide a consistent 
and sustainable  level of natural income  to complement her other sources of income. Under 
risk level 3 the anticipated equity rating  was round  23.5%.  I appreciated that the speed at 
which this took place was due to a change in circumstances but the shift in equity holdings  
was significant  and it supported my view, that the portfolios were previously exposed to too 
much risk before.
Putting things right
Considering my findings, I thought  it was fair and reasonable  for Brewin  to put things  right for
Ref: DRN24521035Mrs W. I couldnt say what  would have  happened, my aim was to put Mrs W as close  to the 
position she would probably have been in if she had not been given unsuitable advice  or had 
the portfolios not been managed unsuitably.
I thought Mrs W and the late Mr W would have invested differently. It was not possible to say
precisely what they would have done, but I was satisfied that what  I set out below was fair
and reasonable given  their circumstances and objectives when they invested.
I was not persuaded, from the evidence  Id seen, that immediate de-risking of the portfolio
would have resulted in a CGT liability or even if it did, I was not persuaded that any such
liability would have  been so high as to have been disproportionate to the worth of having the
portfolios suitably managed. So, I thought Brewin  ought  to have started  managing the 
portfolios on a lower  risk base from the outset of moving to the discretionary investment 
management service.
what should  Brewin  do?
To compensate Mrs W fairly, Brewin must:
Compare the performance of Mrs W's investment with that of the benchmark shown
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the
investment. If the actual  value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is
payable.
Brewin should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to 
(end date) addition
al interest
portfolios mixedfor half the 
investment: FTSE UK
Private  
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bonds1 October
2014 27 April 20188% simple 
per year from 
date of 
decision  to 
date of 
settlement  (if 
compensatio
n is not paid 
within 28 
days  of the 
business 
being notified 
of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid  (meaning it could not be readily  sold on the open
Ref: DRN24521036market), it may be difficult  to work  out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual
value should be assumed  to be zero. This is provided Mrs W agrees to Brewin  taking
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Brewin to take ownership,
then it may request  an undertaking  from Mrs W that she repays to Brewin  any amount she
may receive  from the investment in future.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Brewin  should
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually
compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the
fair value  calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the
calculation from that point on.
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if
Brewin totals all those  payments and deducts  that figure at the end instead of deducting
periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I chose this method  of compensation  because:
Mrs W and the late Mr W wanted income  with some growth with a small risk to their
capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It
would be a fair measure  for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a
higher return.
I considered that Mrs W and the late Mr W's risk profile was in between, in the sense
that they were  prepared  to take a small level of risk to attain their investment
objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs W into that position.
It does not mean that Mrs W and the late Mr W would  have  invested  50% of their
money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I
considered this a reasonable  compromise that broadly reflected the sort of return Mrs 
W and the late Mr W could have obtained  from investments suited to their objective 
and risk attitude.
I was not satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable to refund fees in addition to this, as 
my recommendation put the portfolios in the position  they should  have been, on which fees
Ref: DRN24521037would have been payable in any event.
The parties have  confirmed receipt of the provisional decision. Those acting on behalf  of 
Mrs W have nothing further  to add. 
Brewin have raised  a number of concerns and Ive addressed these in my findings below. I 
have reconsidered  everything in order to reach  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Brewin have made  the following points in response  to the provisional  decision as to attitude 
to risk:
i.in the risk questionnaire, Mrs W and the late Mr W ticked  the middle box in response 
to the question I worry about  the volatility of the stock market. Brewin say this 
means they neither agreed nor disagreed;
ii.Mrs W and the late Mr Ws previous investment  experience  showed  they had a high 
level of composure indicating a willingness to accept fluctuations in the value of 
the investments.
Mrs W and the late Mr W didnt disagree that volatility of the stock market  was a concern, 
which suggests it was a consideration for them albeit not a significant  one. I cant fairly say 
that much  weight attaches to Mrs W and the late Mr Ws historic  investment experience,  as it 
was clear they were  looking to reduce  their exposure to equities in the future  and their needs  
were changing.
Brewin have made  the following points in respect to the provisional decision as to suitability:
i. Brewin disagree that risk level 5 was more risk than Mrs W and the late Mr W 
were prepared  to accept. They say Mrs W and the late Mr W were happy with 
the equity exposure to ensure  the income  levels remained  higher and 
understood that investing in high quality equities had potential  for income 
generation whilst providing some  protection of the capital value against 
market volatility;
ii. Brewin say that at the time the portfolio moved to discretionary management 
the equity content  was 73% and by April 2018 it was 58%, which  was in the 
tolerance for the tactical asset  allocation of the profile.
iii. Brewin still say that de-risking would have taken a considerable time.
Brewin were providing advice to Mrs W and the late Mr W, so it was for them  to make 
recommendations that were suitable  for Mrs W and the late Mr Ws circumstances. Im still 
not persuaded that the equity split was within the tolerance of a 55% equity holding during 
the investment  term. 
Whilst the equity  allocation was 58% by April 2018, Brewin  have now confirmed that the 
equity split was 73% at the time Mrs W and the late Mr W moved to the discretionary 
Ref: DRN24521038investment management  service in 2014. The holding decreased  over the 2014-2018  period 
from 73% to 58% on a sliding scale and Brewin have conceded they didnt make the 
reduction quickly. It is therefore artificial to look at the very end point. So, for all the 2014-
2018 period the equity split would have  been  above  and at times significantly above 55%. 
That is a material point  because in the limited  correspondence  sent to Mrs W and the late Mr 
W during this period,  Brewin  continued  to say that the investment was being managed in line 
with a level 5 risk, i.e. circa, a 55% equity holding.
In any event, the key consideration for me isnt whether the portfolio had the right equity 
weighting for Brewins  particular risk categories. Its whether  the investments Brewin 
recommended were suitable for Mrs W and the late Mr W in the context of their 
circumstances, objectives and risk appetite. And as Ive said in the provisional decision, I 
dont think risk level 5 was suitable. Brewin have  now provided a copy of a client  factsheet 
from May 2017, in which Mrs W and the late Mr W said they wanted to maintain their capital 
in case they had a requirement for medical or later life care.  This re-enforces my view that 
capital preservation was important to them. 
There was a direct conflict between the objectives  of growing the portfolio in the short-term 
and wanting to maintain capital  value (set out at review in 2014) and the risk within  a level 
5 investment of greater short-term potential for losses . . . to generate potentially higher 
long-term returns. And as Ive already  said, it remains my view that there  was confusion 
around the duration of the term.
Brewin have made  the following points in respect to the provisional decision as to reviews 
and vulnerability:
i. Brewin say they are unclear as to the change in circumstances that I referred 
to. I would like to clarify that I meant  the transfer of the late Mr Ws assets  to 
Mrs W, the involvement of attorneys and change in Investment  Manager.  Ive 
seen that Brewin  go on to identify most of these factors in their response.
ii. They say the request  to de-risk was made  by the attorneys;
iii. Brewin point to the client factsheet  of May 2017 and say Mrs W and the late 
Mr W did not wish to gift capital  sums and confirmed they did not wish to pay 
CGT.
It may be that the attorneys  suggested de-risking the portfolio, but Brewin were giving advice 
about suitability  and didnt disagree with this. Ive seen from review  in May 2018, that Brewin 
recommended risk level 3, considering, the desire for more  stable returns reducing equity 
exposure in favour of fixed income and alternative assets is more appropriate. It was agreed 
by all parties that, risk level 3  very low investment  risk with an income investment 
objective was the most  appropriate  and that based upon  all known facts presented,  the 
recommendation is suitable  and should  deliver your mothers objectives. Ive taken into 
account that the investment objectives hadnt  materially changed, being to provide a 
consistent and sustainable level of natural income  to complement Mrs Ws other sources of 
income, along with capital  preservation. So, it remains my view that the swift change  in risk 
level suggests the portfolios were previously exposed to too much  risk.
Also, despite  Brewin maintaining that CGT was a central consideration, this is not borne out 
in the contemporaneous  notes. In addition to the documents Ive referred to in the 
provisional decision, the client factsheet of May 2017 simply states:
Ref: DRN24521039Clients view on paying CGT? No
Theres no record of a discussion  about  CGT, which Id expect to see if it was a central  
consideration. And even if Mrs W and the late Mr W did say they didnt wish to pay CGT, I 
cant see that there was any thought or discussion about how much CGT would have been 
payable if the equity holdings were further  reduced. 
So, my overall conclusions remain unchanged. I still consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Brewin to put things  right for Mrs W. I consider that the recommendation set 
out in my provisional  decision is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding this complaint. I direct  Brewin  Dolphin Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2452103