K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) taken  out in 2002. 
Mrs and Mr C say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  the PPI.
background
The PPI was part of a Total Mortgage  Protection  Plan, which can also include other types  of 
cover like life cover  and critical illness cover. Mrs and Mr Cs complaint is about  the PPI. The 
PPI cover was on Mr C only.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Theres very little from the time of the sale to go on. But from what we know  of how Halifax  
sold PPI like Mrs and Mr Cs, Halifax would normally make it clear  PPI didnt have to be 
taken - and give customers like Mrs and Mr C a choice about taking it. 
Mrs and Mr C say this didnt  happen  in their case. Theyve said the policy  was not clearly set 
out to them  and was added without  them  knowing or being given a choice.  Ive thought  about  
this carefully. But the sale took place many years  earlier. So I wouldnt expect Mrs and Mr C 
to have remembered everything vividly or in detail. And I dont have anything else to suggest 
that Halifax didnt  give Mrs and Mr C a choice like I think Halifax normally did. Taking all this 
into account, on balance  I havent seen enough  to make me think that Halifax didnt make it 
clear to Mrs and Mr C the PPI was optional  or that Mrs and Mr C didnt agree to the cover.
If Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr C it had to do more  and check  the PPI was 
right for them. This would place on Halifax a higher level of responsibility  for the sale. And 
Halifax thinks it did recommend the PPI for Mr C to Mrs C and Mr C. So I think  its fair to 
assess the case on that basis.
The PPI was protection for Mrs and Mr Cs mortgage  a significant liability secured on their 
home. Mr C, who had the cover, wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
cover. And for a successful claim the PPI benefits wouldve been paid on top of Mr Cs work  
sickness or redundancy benefits  and paid for up to two years.  So the PPI could help at 
what could be a difficult time if Mr C were unemployed or too sick to work.
Mrs and Mr C have also said family  or friends couldve helped  pay their mortgage  instead. 
But other peoples  circumstances  and ability to help can change.  Mrs and Mr C have  said 
they didnt claim on the PPI and they say this shows they didnt need it. But, bearing  in mind 
what Ive already said above, I still think  Mrs and Mr C had a need for the cover.
So, based  on what Ive seen of their Mrs and Mr Cs circumstances at the time, I think  the 
PPI was right for them. Mrs and Mr C have told us Mr C was the higher  earner  and that they 
both worked full time but Mrs C wasnt entitled  to full sick pay and they werent aware the 
PPI didnt cover her in the same way as Mr C. But, from what  I have, Mrs and Mr C didnt 
Ref: DRN22428242lose out by not splitting  the cover between  them.  The cover wouldnt have cost them any 
less if it had been split between them.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs and Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I cant  say they didnt  want this type of cover  because  I havent seen 
enough to make me think they didnt choose to take it out. And, for the reasons  Ive given 
above, it seems like the cover would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. It 
also looks like the cover was affordable. Taking everything into account, I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put Mrs and Mr C off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about all Mrs and Mr Cs points including what theyve said about feeling the 
policy was sold unfairly and Mr C having life cover  with his work.  But, for the reasons Ive 
already given above, I still think  the PPI was right for them  and these points dont change my 
decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs and Mr C paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Mrs and Mr C back some  of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs and Mr C now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2242824