K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy about the impact TSB Bank  plcs IT issues have had on his ability  to access 
and manage his bank statements.
background
I issued my provisional decision in early  January  2019 (copied below). I explained I had 
carefully considered  all of the available evidence and arguments  from the outset, in order to 
decide what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I had also taken  into account 
relevant regulatory  rules  as well as the law and good industry  practice.
Having done so, I explained  I intended to uphold the complaint and ask TSB to pay Mr A 
compensation in respect of the poor customer service he had received. However, I explained 
it wouldnt be fair to try to compel TSB to provide his statements in any particular format.
Mr A has told us that he is still unable to download his files in his preferred format, and so I 
understand he is making plans to leave TSB. 
Neither party has provided any further  evidence  for me to consider. The deadline for further 
submissions has now passed.
my findings
Having reconsidered  the complaint again in its entirety, I have reached the same decision as 
before, and for the same  reasons. It follows  that I uphold this complaint, and instruct TSB to 
put things right as set out below.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  TSB Bank plc to pay Mr A £150 for the trouble and upset 
hes experienced (if it has not done so already) and £1.50 to cover the parking charges hes 
says he incurred. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Clair Bantin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26751962copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr A is unhappy  about the impact TSB Bank  plcs IT issues have had on his ability  to access and 
manage his bank statements.
background
In April 2018,  TSB experienced issues with its IT system.  As a result Mr A has told us he was no 
longer able to download his account statements  in the usual format. The information was available in 
a different format, but I understand this wasnt compatible with the software Mr A uses to manage his 
finances. As such, Mr A has told us that since then he has had to manually  input the data, which 
takes a considerable amount  of his time.
 
Mr A has made a number of telephone calls to TSB in an attempt to resolve  this issue,  as well as 
visiting his branch in person.  He has also told us that his statements are still not available in the 
format he was using before. TSB has also confirmed this is the case, saying it is attempting to resolve 
the problem, but cannot give a date as to when this work might be completed.
Mr A brought  his complaint  to this service, and our Investigator agreed that TSB hadnt provided  him 
with an appropriate level of service. As such, our Investigator recommended that TSB pay Mr A 
compensation of £50 to reflect the trouble and upset hed experienced.  He also asked TSB to make 
the statements available  to Mr A in the compatible  format.
Mr A wasnt happy with this. He thought the compensation  amount should be higher,  and suggested a 
figure of £500.  Furthermore, as noted above, as yet TSB has been unable to resolve the formatting 
issues. A second Investigator reviewed the complaint,  and recommended that the compensation  for 
trouble and upset be increased to £150.
Mr A remained unsatisfied  and requested  an ombudsmans decision. As such, the case has passed to 
me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr A found  it frustrating and inconvenient that his statements  were not provided in a 
format compatible  with his software, and that it cost him time and trouble  to update his financial  
management systems manually. However,  its important to note that TSB is not under  an obligation to 
continue to provide the account statements in a particular format, or to ensure ongoing  compatibility 
with Mr As software.
As such, if TSB chooses to withdraw this service  temporarily, while resolving  internal IT issues,  or 
permanently  Mr A wouldnt necessarily be entitled to compensation. Nor would I attempt to compel  
TSB to make the statements  available  to Mr A in his preferred format.
However, in this case, I do agree that Mr A has experienced poor customer service and is entitled to 
some compensation.  This is due to the abrupt manner  in which the service  he was relying on  the 
provision of compatible statements  was withdrawn,  and the lack of clarity that surrounded this 
withdrawal.
Had this change  been  planned and communicated  to Mr A in advance, rather  than resulting from IT 
system issues, Mr A may have been able to prepare more effectively. Furthermore, he wouldve been 
spared the frustration of attempting to resolve  the problem with TSB. So I believe a compensation  
award is appropriate  here to reflect the trouble and inconvenience Mr A has experienced.
Ref: DRN26751963Mr A thinks the total figure  of £150 proposed by our Investigator  isnt high enough. But, taking into 
account everything Ive seen, I think £150 is a fair and reasonable  level of compensation. It is also 
broadly in line with what Id expect to see in a case of this nature.
In addition to compensation for Mr As trouble and upset, Ive thought  about  whether  he has suffered 
any direct  financial loss. Mr A has told us he has been charged for calls to TSB and has provided  bills 
showing the various calls he has made. However, while I agree  that Mr A has certainly called TSB, his 
bills do not show that any charges were  applied.  The charges on the bills appear to relate  to other 
numbers, unconnected to TSB. Mr A has not been able to provide any further evidence of call costs, 
so Im not making an award for this.
Mr A has also told us he spent £1.50 on parking fees when he visited his TSB branch. I am asking 
TSB to refund this sum.
Finally, for clarity, I should state  that whether or not TSB is able to restore  the previous formatting and 
start sending  out Mr As statements in a compatible  format once more, Im not holding TSB 
responsible for any further loss to Mr A resulting  from this issue. Mr A has now had sufficient 
notification of the formatting  change to take any action he feels is appropriate. He has told us he has 
a limited choice of alternative  banking  providers  in the vicinity of his home, but  although this may be 
unfortunate for Mr A  it doesnt  place  any additional responsibilities on TSB.
my provisional  decision
Im minded to uphold  this complaint and instruct  TSB Bank plc to pay Mr A £150 for the trouble and 
upset hes experienced  (if it has not done so already) and £1.50 to cover the parking  charges hes 
says he incurred. 
If either party has anything further to add, they should do so by the date specified above. I will then 
reconsider the complaint before reaching  a final decision.
Clair Bantin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2675196