K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(MPPI).
background
Mr and Mrs H took out MPPI  with a mortgage in 1999 and further advances in 2003 and 
2004. They  paid a monthly amount for the cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint was passed  to me.
I sent Mr and Mrs H and Lloyds my provisional  decision  on 26 February  2019  explaining why 
I wasnt intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I said that before I made  my final 
decision, Id consider any more comments and evidence that I received by 26 March 2019.
Since sending  my provisional decision,  I havent  received any new points for me to consider.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
Ive explained  my reasons again  below.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint because:
Mr and Mrs H have said they werent  told the MPPI was optional.  And I accept this is 
possible. But overall I just dont think theres  enough evidence to say this is what most 
likely happened.  Lloyds has sent us paperwork  completed  at the time that presented the 
MPPI as optional,  and Mr and Mrs H signed  separate forms for the MPPI for each sale.  I 
think its most  likely  that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs H aware  that they had a choice about 
buying the MPPI, and that they chose to take it, even  if  understandably - they cant  
remember that now.
Mr and Mrs H have said the sales were pushy. But again, I dont think theres  enough 
evidence to say Mr and Mrs H were  pressured  to take out the MPPI.
Lloyds recommended  the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs H, and it seems  to have been right for 
them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time. The mortgage borrowing 
was a significant long term financial commitment secured  on their home. And the MPPI  
was designed  to provide protection for the unexpected  and could have paid out for up to 
12 months  per claim if either Mr or Mrs H lost their job or couldnt work. I have thought, in 
this regard,  about what Mr and Mrs H have said about their sick pay entitlement  and 
savings. But Ive not seen enough  evidence that makes me think this was of a level that 
meant the MPPI wasnt  still a sensible precaution or that it was wrong for Lloyds to 
recommend it.
Ref: DRN23787742Its possible the information Lloyds gave  Mr and Mrs H about  the MPPI  wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been   including information  about  its cost, and the main things the MPPI 
didnt cover.  But Mr and Mrs H dont appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the MPPI didnt  cover.  And they chose to take the MPPI  out  so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  It seems  like it would have been useful for them  if something  
went wrong.  And I dont  think  better information about the cost wouldve made  a 
difference. So I dont  think better information about the MPPI  wouldve  put Mr and Mrs H 
off taking out the cover.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Hs comments. But for the reasons Ive explained above, 
these points dont  change my conclusion.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2378774