K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  didnt properly explain its 
claim process under his motor insurance  policy  when he reported an incident.  He wants 
compensation for his financial losses.
background
Mr S was involved  in an incident  and reported  it to Admiral. Mr S said he made it clear that 
he wanted to minimise  the financial consequences  of having to claim and was considering  
arranging repairs to his car. He said Admiral  told him an approved repairer could inspect  his 
car and if Mr S didnt  want to go ahead with the repairs, he could make this decision.
But Mr S said he called  Admiral and it had decided his car wasnt  economical to repair and 
declared it a total loss. He said Admiral told him it needed to be dealt with that day as the 
courtesy car needed  to be returned. So Mr S said that under pressure he agreed for the 
claim to be dealt with as a total loss - and in panic bought a replacement car. 
Admiral said it had provided Mr S with the correct information both before the inspection  and 
when the car was declared a total loss. Mr S felt Admiral had been  selective  in its summary 
of what was discussed. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought Admiral 
hadnt explained the claims process  clearly to Mr S. She thought  Mr S had made it clear that 
he was considering retaining  the cars salvage. She thought Admiral  had told Mr S that hed 
have the opportunity to carry out his own repairs, but this didnt happen. She recommended  
that Admiral should  pay Mr S £300 compensation for his trouble  and upset. 
Admiral replied that the correct information  had been provided  to Mr S about not making a 
claim for repairs  and also that he could  retain  the salvage if he wished to. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S told us he had to pay £5,000 for a replacement car. His settlement from Admiral was 
£3,000. So I can understand  that he feels out of pocket. I can also understand that, being 
new to the claims process,  he found this to be not straightforward. 
Ive been able to listen to the two calls between Mr S and Admiral about  the claim.  In the first 
call Mr S made to Admiral, I think at first it explained the claims process  reasonably clearly. 
Mr S described the damage to his car. Admiral asked if Mr S wanted to make a claim. 
Admiral explained  that it would  make  arrangements for Mr Ss car to be taken to an 
approved garage  for an estimate of the repairs needed. 
I think the agent understood that Mr S wanted  to withdraw his claim if the repairs needed 
were of low value. She explained that Mr S could  withdraw his claim by letting the approved  
garage know this before  it ordered  any parts. Mr S agreed to go ahead  on this basis. So I 
think Mr S understood that hed be able to make a decision  before matters  proceeded any 
further.
Ref: DRN28312522Admiral later told Mr S that it didnt explain that he could obtain his own independent 
assessment of the car if he thought the approved  garages estimate was too high. It said this 
wasnt its process, so it didnt need  to offer this option. I can see that Mr Ss policy  states 
that if he doesnt want to use Admirals  approved  repairer, then he should discuss  this with 
the claims handler. So I think it was for Mr S to do this if he wished. 
But what  wasnt explained  was that the garages  assessment would  lead to the car being 
deemed a total loss and a category N marker would be placed on the car. This means  that 
the insurer has decided  it isnt economical to repair the car. I think  Admiral could have 
warned Mr S about this, but it didnt know the outcome  of the assessment when the claim 
was first reported. From its notes, it looked  like the car may have been repairable. 
But I think Admiral could  have been  clearer about the process Mr S would need  to follow to 
withdraw his claim. It had told him that the garage  was self-authorising, and hed need  to tell 
it he was withdrawing  before  it ordered  parts. But it didnt explain how this would happen and 
he wasnt given the opportunity to do this. 
As it turned out, the garage passed its report to Admiral and its in-house  engineer  decided  
the car was beyond  economical repair. I can see that the estimate for the repairs exceeds 
the cars  pre-accident value. So I cant say that this was incorrect.  
In the second  call, following this decision,  Mr S explained that hed been given the option in 
the earlier call to not have the car repaired.  The agent explained that the car had been 
deemed a category N total loss. Mr S said he hadnt been involved in this decision as had 
been agreed. But Admiral said it was too late now.  
Mr S was given the options of taking a total loss settlement or withdrawing his claim, paying 
for his own repairs, and having an MOT on the car to put it back  on the road. But the 
category marker  would remain  on the car. 
The agent  said she wouldnt offer a valuation  until Mr S made  his decision, but she later 
changed her mind to conclude the matter. He chose the settlement as the process for 
removing the total loss marker seemed difficult. He explained that he was unhappy  as hed 
been misled in the initial call. 
So I think Mr S made it clear to Admiral in the first call that he would want  to keep his car 
and carry out repairs  himself if it was cheaper than making a claim. Admiral  agreed he could 
do this. But it didnt  then allow  this option.  So I think Admiral prejudiced  Mr Ss position and it 
should put things right.
Mr S didnt have the opportunity to retain the cars  salvage. He felt pressured to accept  the 
total loss offer. I think this caused Mr S loss as he had then to buy a replacement car rather  
than repairing his own. The investigator  recommended that Admiral should  pay him £300  
compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id award 
in similar  circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  to pay Mr S £300 compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim. 
Ref: DRN28312523Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2831252