K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited,  trading as Very, are charging  
her for items she didnt receive.
background
Mrs R ordered a desktop and monitor through a catalogue  shopping  account  she had with 
Very. When the delivery arrived Mrs R says the desktop was missing  but the monitor  was 
present.
She says she called Very to complain whilst the delivery man searched his van for the 
missing package but to no avail.
Very agreed to refund her for the desktop  and arranged to collect the monitor.  Mrs R wasnt  
at home  when the monitor was returned but she says her daughter  handed it over to the 
driver. But Very said the monitor wasnt collected and the driver  left a calling card. 
They later re-debited Mrs Rs account for the whole order  and have refused to credit the 
account until a returns slip is provided by Mrs R as they say she would have got one if the 
driver had collected the monitor.
Mrs R referred  her complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion. He 
thought it was clear  that Very had accepted they would  refund the cost of the desktop and he 
didnt think it was fair of them to change their minds. He could not understand why Mrs R 
would arrange  for the collection of the monitor  but not return it. So, on balance, he decided 
the monitor probably had been  returned and he suggested Very refund  Mrs R for the monitor 
and the desktop and any interest that had been charged.  He said they should also pay 8% 
interest on any amount  that had been  overcharged  and that they should pay Mrs R £100 in 
respect of the distress  and inconvenience  shed  experienced.
Very didnt agree with the investigator. They provided a photograph to show how the 
products were usually  packaged. That showed two boxes strapped together  so they 
suggested there would only have been one package delivered  not the two that Mrs R was 
suggesting. They also provided a screenshot of their order system which showed the 
delivery as one parcel. They  therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Very so please  let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN21645782This is a finely balanced decision but Im persuaded on balance that its most likely Mrs R 
didnt receive the desktop and did return the monitor. I say that because:
Ive found  Mrs Rs testimony compelling and consistent;
I dont think its fair for Very to have offered to refund the desktop cost but to 
subsequently change their minds;
It doesnt make much  sense that Mrs R would agree to return the monitor but not do 
so;
I can understand that a return slip may not have been acquired  and Im not 
persuaded that the absence of that necessarily demonstrates  the monitor wasnt  
returned;
Ive noted  the packaging information  Very supplied. It may well have  been  the case 
that the package left the depot as one parcel but I think the parcel size would be very 
clumsy. These  were  both quite large  items  and I think its likely they would have 
needed to be split before delivery at some point. 
So I think it would be fair for Very to rework the account and remove  the cost of the goods.  
They should  also refund  any interest  that has been charged on these items and add interest  
of 8% to any overpayment.
Mrs R has been inconvenienced by having  to arrange to return  goods  and by having to 
formulate a complaint  and pursue  it through this service. In the circumstances  I would agree 
with the investigator  that they should pay £100 to compensate her for her experience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I tell Shop  Direct Finance Company Limited to:
rework the account by removing the balance of the desktop, monitor  and associated  
interest (if applicable).  Add 8% simple interest from the date of any overpayment to 
the date of settlement;
pay Mrs R £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2164578