K821x#15complaint
Mr F, represented by a claims management  company (CMC), has complained  about  short-
term loans granted  to him by CashEuroNet  UK LLC trading  as Quick Quid.
background
Mr F entered  into eight  loans with QuickQuid between October 2015 and February  2018
Loan Date Repaid Amount
1 October 2015 December 2015 £100
2 December 2015 March 2016 £250
3 May 2016 August 2016 £100
4 September 2016 October 2016 £150
5 October 2016 November 2016 £300
6 November 2016 January 2017 £400
7 January 2017 May 2017 £100
8 February 2018 March 2018 £400
The CMC says that QuickQuid failed to establish whether Mr F could repay the loans while  
still affording his living  costs. It says that Mr F was making use of other short  term loan 
providers at the time and become reliant on this form of borrowing. It says he was borrowing 
again within days of repaying previous loans which showed a clear cycle  of dependency.  
QuickQuid says that it carried out appropriate and proportionate affordability assessments 
before providing  the loans to Mr F. It says its checks included validation on Mr Fs income 
and expenses and credit checks.  It says its assessments were in line with the relevant 
guidance at the time.  
QuickQuid says that the loans provided to Mr F varied in amounts and that there were gaps 
in Mr Fs borrowing  history.   
Our adjudicator said that she hadnt seen  enough  to say it was unfair  that QuickQuid 
provided loans  one to three and loan eight to Mr F. But she thought  that loans four to seven 
shouldn't have been lent. She recommended  that Mr F be refunded all interest and charges 
paid on loans four to seven (along with interest) and that these loans  be removed from his 
credit file.
QuickQuid didnt accept  our adjudicators view. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN22212572QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr F could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
In regard to the first three  loans  Mr F received,  I think  the checks carried  out were  
proportionate. I note that based on the information  Mr F provided, after accounting for the 
repayment of the second  loan (for £250) Mr F was left with just over £100. While this is a low 
amount, I dont find at this stage I can say there is enough evidence  to say the loan wasnt  
affordable.
By the time Mr F took out the fourth  loan and up to and including loan seven, Mr Fs overall  
pattern of borrowing suggested  he had become persistently reliant on short-term loans. Mr F 
had taken four loans  in less than a year and while the amounts borrowed varied, they were  
in general increasing  and this didnt change for the rest of the borrowing relationship  with 
QuickQuid. In my view, the pattern of lending at this time shows that lending  to Mr F from 
loan four to seven  was not sustainably  affordable.
Ref: DRN22212573Although there were  some short gaps between Ms K repaying a loan and asking to borrow  
again, I dont think it would have been  reasonable for QuickQuid to conclude  these  were  any 
indication that Miss Ks finances had moved on from whatever situation had required her 
previous loans
Following loan seven,  which  Mr F repaid in May 2017,  he didnt take out another loan with 
QuickQuid until February  2018.  This was a gap in his borrowing of around  nine months. 
Given this break I find it reasonable to accept QuickQuid may have considered Mr Fs 
situation could  have changed and that this loan should be considered as part of a new 
lending chain. The loan was for £400  but as this was the first in the lending  chain I find the 
checks carried out were proportionate.  Based on the information available  I dont think it was 
unreasonable that this loan was provided.
I think that Mr F lost out because QuickQuid continued to provide borrowing from loan four to 
seven because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Fs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Fs ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Because of this I am upholding  this complaint  in regard to loans four to seven.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  four to seven inclusive. 
CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as Quick Quid should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr F paid on loans four to seven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan four means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  four to seven should be removed from 
Mr Fs credit file.
*HMRC requires  you to take off tax from this interest. If Mr F asks you for a certificate 
showing how much  tax you've taken  off, you should  provide  this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2221257