K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained, on behalf  of his late wifes estate,  about Cova Life Limiteds decision 
to decline two claims made under his late wifes payment protection insurance.
Background
In 2006 Mr Ms wife, Mrs M, took out payment protection insurance alongside a personal 
loan. It was sold by another  company, who Ill call L, but the cover was provided  by Cova. 
The policy provided  cover  in the event  Mrs M died, was diagnosed  with a listed  critical illness  
or suffered a disability during the policy term. In the event of a successful  claim,  the balance  
of Mrs Ms personal loan would be paid off. Cover started on 16 February  2006,  and was set 
to run for three years. 
 
Mrs M sadly  died on 29 December  2007. Mr M registered a claim under the life insurance  
element of the policy in April 2009,  after hed been granted the executor of his wifes estate.  
 
Cova declined the claim on 6 May 2009.  It explained the evidence showed  Mrs Ms death 
was linked to AIDs,  which was expressly  excluded under the policy.  
 
Mr M contacted Cova at various times over the following  years  questioning the earlier  
claims decision, and also asking if he could claim benefit under any of the other sections  of 
the policy. 
 
Cova sent Mr M details of what the policy provided  and said it would consider a further 
claim if he could show  his wife had either been  diagnosed with a listed critical illness  or was 
certified as unfit to work  before she died. When it didnt hear from Mr M it closed the claim as 
it didnt have enough information to consider  it. 
 
Mr M contacted our service  and complained that Cova:
unfairly declined  a claim for life cover following his wifes death; 
failed to tell him the policy provided  critical illness benefit when he first claimed;
unfairly declined  a claim for critical illness benefit  after he told it that his wife had 
suffered multiple  organ failure  before she died; 
wrongly understated the number of conditions that were covered under the critical 
illness benefit; 
failed to properly  respond to his Subject Access  Request (SAR) because it didnt 
provide a signed copy of the policy; and
had written to the wrong address.
 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. He said we could only consider the 
complaint in relation to the critical illness claim.  He said Mr M had brought his complaint 
about the declined life claim too late, and so we couldnt look into it. 
In relation to the critical illness claim, our investigator explained that Cova had provided us 
with evidence to show it hadnt declined the critical illness claim. It had closed the claim 
because it didnt have  enough information to complete its claims assessment, but would 
reconsider the claim if Mr M provided  more information. Overall he didnt feel Cova had 
acted unfairly and so he didnt  uphold  the complaint. 
 
Ref: DRN23919842Mr M disagreed. He responded in detail  explaining why he felt Cova had acted in bad faith 
and was acting  fraudulently. 
 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was passed to me to make  a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 20 March 2019, explaining why we could look into both 
parts of Mr Ms complaint. But I also explained  why I didnt think  the complaint should be 
upheld, addressing each of his points in turn.  
Having reviewed all the information provided, I was satisfied that while Mr M hadnt followed 
up on his complaint until recently,  he had told Cova he was unhappy with its decision in 
2012. Under our rules  this meant that his complaint had been brought to us in time and so 
we could consider  it.  
In terms of Covas claims decisions, I was satisfied it had acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances. Mrs Ms death certificate  showed  that AIDs was one of the underlying  causes 
of her death. As the policy  expressly excluded any claims where death results directly  or 
indirectly from AIDs, I couldnt say Cova  was unreasonable to turn down the claim as it fell 
outside the terms of the policy. 
In terms of the critical illness claim, I wasnt persuaded Cova had prevented Mr M from 
claiming under this section of the policy. It wasnt clear  if hed been  told about the critical 
illness benefit when  he first called in 2009.  But I didnt think this was unreasonable given that 
he was registering a claim under the life insurance  section  of the policy. The evidence also 
showed Cova  had discussed  the critical illness benefits with Mr M when he contacted it in 
2012. So I didnt  agree Cova misled him about  the cover  available. 
The evidence showed the policy Mrs M purchased provided cover for seven listed  critical 
illnesses. I explained  it appeared  Mr M was referring to documentation from another  insurer 
when he said the Cova policy provided  cover  for 64 conditions,  as this wasnt  supported by 
the policy documentation. Like the investigator, I thought Covas offer to assess a claim if 
Mr M could  provide more  evidence that his wife had been diagnosed with one of those seven  
listed conditions was fair in the circumstances. 
I could see that Cova made a mistake when it first responded to Mr Ms SAR, as it wrote to 
the wrong address. But as Mr M had shown  hed received the correspondence,  I wasnt  
persuaded hed lost out, or been  particularly inconvenienced because of Covas mistake. I 
also explained that I wouldnt expect Cova to hold all the sales  documents, as it didnt sell 
the policy itself.  So I didnt think it was unreasonable that Cova had been unable  to provide 
a signed policy document.  
Mr M replied. He again raised concerns that Cova hadnt provided him with a signed copy 
of the policy  document, and questioned the validity of the cover  in view of this. He asked that 
I obtain a copy  of this document.  He also complained that Cova  had written  to the wrong  
address on more than one occasion, with the intention  of delaying him receiving a pay out 
from the policy. He asked that his case be reconsidered on compassionate grounds as 
Covas decision had caused financial difficulties. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes Mr Ms recent response to 
Ref: DRN23919843my provisional decision. Having done  so, I dont  think the complaint should be upheld for the 
same reasons I set out in my provisional decision. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr M. So Id like to explain how Ive reached  this conclusion.
I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling  in this matter. And Im very sorry to hear of the tragic 
circumstances surrounding  his wifes death.  I can see its been  a very difficult  time for him. In 
the circumstances I can understand why hes so keen to ensure hes been treated  fairly, and 
that the right claims decisions have  been reached. 
Mr M has repeatedly asked Cova for a signed copy of the policy.  Cova has only been able 
to provide an unsigned copy. It has explained that it doesnt hold a signed copy  of the 
document because  it didnt  sell the policy, L did.  
Mr M has asked  that I request a copy of this document from Cova, but Im satisfied from its 
earlier responses that it doesnt hold the information.  So I dont see any value in me asking  
for it again. 
I know Mr M is very concerned that Cova doesnt  hold a signed copy of the document.  
While I can see it would  reassure Mr M to see a signed document,  I dont think it would make 
a difference to the consideration of his claims or the outcome of his complaint. Im satisfied 
Cova has considered the life and critical illness claims under  the correct  policy  terms and 
conditions, and I dont  agree the absence of a signed document  affects the validity  of the 
contract of insurance.  
In terms of writing to the wrong address, Cova has apologised  and explained this was down 
to an administrative error.  Ive seen nothing to suggest it was anything other than a mistake. 
Cova had nothing  to gain by sending  the information to the wrong address, and on learning 
it had sent the information  to the wrong  address it resent it to Mr Ms correct address. Im 
also satisfied that Mr M received the original letters even though  they were incorrectly  
addressed, as hes sent us images  of them. So while  it was unfortunate that the letters were 
incorrectly addressed,  I cant see Mr M has suffered any loss as a result.  
Mr M has asked  that his case be reconsidered on compassionate grounds.  I have taken  
Mr Ms circumstances  into account when reviewing his case. And while  Im sorry to hear of 
the difficulties  hes face, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask an insurer to pay a 
claim that doesnt meet the policy  criteria.  Having considered all the available  evidence, Im 
satisfied Cova reasonably concluded that Mrs M death resulted, at least indirectly,  from 
AIDs. As the policy expressly  excludes  any claims where death results directly  or indirectly  
fromAIDS , I cant say it was unreasonable for Cova to turn down the claim  on this basis.
Similarly, Ive seen  no evidence that Mrs M would  have met the definition of any of the listed 
critical illnesses before she died. But Cova has agreed to consider a claim if Mr M provides 
further evidence  to show that she did. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN23919844my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2391984