K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) shared details  of her new 
account card with a company without her permission.
background
Mrs R says there was a fraud on her account and NatWest then sent details of her new 
account card to company which I will call A that provided a payment scheme  using a 
mobile phone.  Mrs R says this shouldnt have happened and says shes  been told NatWest 
should have told her this had been  done. She says she would like a procedure put in place 
to avoid this situation and authority given by a consumer before details are shared in this 
way.
NatWest says it hasnt made  a mistake and says its given Mrs R an explanation for what 
took place as well as explaining how the scheme  works.  In summary it says it provides the 
card provider with Mrs Rs new details  and it in turn update as in this case A. It also says Mrs 
R is likely  to have agreed to As terms and conditions about  this issue  and it has no plans  to 
follow Mrs Rs recommendation about  updating its customers.
Mrs R brought her complaint to us but our investigator didnt  uphold  it. The investigator  
thought it likely Mrs R had agreed  to As terms and conditions and that most banks and 
building societies would act in a similar  way by updating details in this way. The investigator 
didnt think it our role to tell a business  what its policies or procedures should  be and in any 
event Mrs R hadnt suffered a financial  loss.
Mrs R doesnt accept  that view and says NatWest released details of the new card to A and 
to the card provider scheme. She says it should  have been  left to her to decide if she wished 
to update A with those details.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar  reasons.
Im satisfied that NatWest  has acted  fairly  by giving Mrs R a detailed explanation about why 
it gave the card provider  the new account  card information which  in turn provided  that 
information to A. Im also satisfied that its likely  Mrs R agreed to As terms and conditions  
and if she thinks A acted unfairly  then she will need to contact it. I dont think NatWest has 
acted unfairly or made a mistake here by sharing  the information it did and if Mrs R didnt 
want A to have details  of her new account  card then I would have expected her to have  
cancelled her A account before she received the new card.
I appreciate Mrs R would  like NatWest  to change its procedure on this matter. But whilst Im 
sorry to disappoint  Mrs R I should explain that its not our role to tell a bank or building 
society how it runs it business as we are not the regulator. I also dont think Mrs R has 
suffered any financial  loss as a result of what took place.  
Overall I dont think NatWest has acted unfairly or made a mistake  so I cant  order it to do 
anything further  in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN21740422my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2174042