K820x#14complaint
S Ltd, represented  by Mrs A a director, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt make a direct 
debit payment to one of its suppliers resulting in it not supplying goods, the imposition of 
substantial charges and lost business. She wants Lloyds to compensate S Ltd for this.
background
Lloyds said in its final response that the direct debit  in question was cancelled  at Mrs As 
request. But it accepted  itd given poor customer service and inconsistent information.  So, 
itd arranged a direct payment into the business account of £150  for this.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Lloyds says the direct debit was cancelled at Mrs As request. And it set up a new 
direct debit  but the supplier didnt request funds on it. This meant payments were 
rejected. The problems with payments have resulted from the supplier not being  able 
to change its system rather than from any banking error made by Lloyds.  And the 
costs the business  incurred  werent a result  of an error by Lloyds. 
Mrs A was given conflicting  information  about how to resolve  things. There  isnt a log 
of the visits Mrs A made to the branch  or what was said. But the problem has been 
resolved. The £150 compensation Lloyds has paid seems  fair in the circumstances. 
Mrs A remains unhappy. She says shes had a similar problem with other payments but they 
have been resolved quickly by the branch. She shouldve been given a similar  service  in this 
case. The supplier  says it was the banks fault not theirs. The problem was caused  more by 
Lloyds than the supplier. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Ref: DRN20367202I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
S Ltd experienced problems with a direct debit to a supplier. Some payments didnt go 
through and a new direct debit was put in place although Lloyds says the supplier  didnt 
claim any payment on it. The supplier says the problems were  with Lloyds.
It appears that the original direct debit was cancelled  by Mrs A and so I cannot hold Lloyds 
responsible for the consequences of that. On the available evidence  I think  on balance its 
likely the resulting issues werent caused  by a banking  error on Lloyds part. 
Even so Lloyds could  clearly have dealt with resolving the issue better as it gave  Mrs A 
conflicting information about how to put things right. 
Lloyds has paid S Ltd £150 for this. Taking  everything into account  I think  thats fair and I 
dont think I can reasonably require Lloyds to pay the company anymore.
I recognise Mrs As frustration and strength of feeling, but overall I dont see any compelling 
reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case.
Mrs A has also made reference to other  issues she says she experienced with some direct  
debits to other recipients. But I cannot comment on those matters in this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A as a director  
and on behalf  on S Ltd to accept or reject my decision  before 29 June 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2036720