K820x#14complaint
Mr Fs complaint against Assurant General  Insurance Limited (Assurant) is about  what  
happened when  he tried to claim on his household gadget insurance policy.
background
In January 2018 Mr F took out a gadget insurance policy,  which was underwritten  by 
Assurant. Mr F registered four devices under the policy.  
In July 2018 Mr F wanted to claim for accidental damage to three of the devices. Assurant 
told him he could either send the devices to them  for repair or replacement,  or take them to a 
store to be repaired.  
Assurant told Mr F that if he sent the devices to them  hed first have to pay the excesses.  
And if he took them to a store, hed have to pay for the repairs  and then send the invoices to 
Assurant for them to refund him  less the excesses that would apply.
Mr F complained about this process.  He said it didnt reflect the information  given in his 
policy terms or on Assurants website. He was also unhappy some of his calls to Assurant 
were disconnected and he wasnt called back.
Our investigator looked into what happened. He didnt  think Assurant had done anything 
wrong. Mr F disagrees  and has asked  for an ombudsman to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at what Mr Fs policy  says about the claims  process.  It makes  clear that 
Assurant will either repair or replace a damaged device. And under how to make a claim, 
the terms and conditions say:
We will walk you through the simple claims process  and tell you what information 
and documents  you will need to provide for us to assess your claim.You will need 
to pay your excess for every  accepted  claim. Your excess will need to be paid before 
we settle your claim.
This process  is also explained on Assurants website.  
Mr F says the process Assurant described  when  he tried to claim wasnt what he was 
expecting. But I think it was in line with the terms of Mr Fs policy  and the information 
provided on their website. And Ive not seen  enough  evidence  to say that Assurant had 
previously told Mr F anything different.
Mr F was unhappy that hed have to pay the cost of having his devices repaired in store, 
before being reimbursed  by Assurant. He said this would  leave him out of pocket. 
The policy terms dont specifically refer to this part of the claims process.  As Ive noted, the 
terms and conditions simply  say Assurant will walk a claimant through  the process,  and the 
excess will need to be paid before a claim is settled. 
Ref: DRN29661302But I dont think it was unreasonable for Assurant to offer this option to Mr F. It could have 
enabled him to have  his devices repaired more quickly and it wasnt  contrary  to the terms of 
the policy. He was given the alternative of sending the devices to Assurant for repair  or 
replacement. 
Mr F has also said he was led to believe  that replacement devices would be provided 24-48  
hours after making a claim. But the policy information Ive seen doesnt refer to this 
timescale for providing replacement devices. Ive not therefore seen enough  evidence  to say 
Mr F was misled  on this point.
  
Finally, Mr F says hes unhappy about  the service he received from Assurant. In particular,  
he complains that when he called to make  his claim he was disconnected, and Assurant 
didnt call him back.
Assurant have said their call handlers are unable to make outgoing calls so they couldnt  
immediately call Mr F back. But theyve  said a manager called Mr F later the same  day to 
discuss his claims. 
I can understand that it must have been  very frustrating  for Mr F to have  his call 
disconnected. But I cant tell Assurant how they should set up their call centres, and I dont 
think they acted  unreasonably by arranging for a manager to call Mr F later the same day. 
I know Mr F feels strongly about  whats happened. But Ive not seen enough evidence to say 
that Assurant have misrepresented the policy to him, or done anything  that wasnt  in line with 
the terms and conditions. So I wont be upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint 
against Assurant  General  Insurance  Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2966130