K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) hasnt fairly settled a claim he made  
on his travel insurance policy after hed fallen unwell  abroad and had to be flown  back  to 
England. He wants IPA to cover his claim in full as well as pay compensation to him for the 
distress and inconvenience caused when  he was flown home.
Mrs R is also a party to this complaint. 
background
The main  facts in this matter arent in dispute.  And theyve been  set out in some detail by the 
investigator so I havent sought to repeat them in detail in this decision.
Mr R was very unwell  whilst  abroad  and needed emergency surgery  to save  his life.
Mrs R contacted IPAs emergency assistance team for support. As part of the process  to 
check the claim, IPA looked at Mr Rs medical history. As a result of this they felt he hadnt 
answered a question correctly. And, if he had answered it correctly, the policy  wouldve cost 
more money. So IPA agreed to cover Mr Rs claim based on the amount he did pay as a 
percentage of what the policy wouldve actually cost. This meant  IPA agreed to be 
responsible for 65.38% of the total claim.  
Almost six weeks after Mr R was taken into hospital, hed recovered enough to be returned 
back to England (known as repatriation). IPA and the doctors  treating  him abroad agreed the 
way he could be transported home. And in late August 2017,  Mr R came back to England. 
He was then taken to the accident and emergency (A&E) department of a hospital local to 
his home.
Mrs R says that IPA didnt tell the hospital  how serious Mr Rs condition  was. This disrupted 
and delayed Mr Rs care, caused stress and aggravation for them both and the treating 
doctors. And this was so serious it couldve  threatened his recovery.
Mr and Mrs R disputed IPAs offer to pay only part of the claim.  They  were  also unhappy with 
how theyd been  treated  on their return to England. They complained  to IPA about this but 
IPA didnt uphold  their complaint. IPA says their team told the hospital about Mr Rs 
condition based  on the information they received from the doctors  treating  him abroad.  So 
Mr and Mrs R brought  their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into this compliant and decided to uphold  the part of it in relation to 
Mr Rs return to England only. He explained his reasons in detail. This includes the following:
-IPAs medical team  were in frequent contact  with the treating doctors. They  spoke on 
a regular basis and spoke with one of the doctors shortly  before the repatriation went 
ahead.
-Although the evidence  shows  Mr R recovered steadily throughout August, he took a 
turn for the worse  and the repatriation was called off at short  notice. The treating 
doctors were able to stabilise him and the repatriation was set up again.
-The time between  Mr Rs deterioration  and the date of repatriation  suggests he was 
nowhere near fully recovered.
Ref: DRN28767812-The medical evidence  from the UK hospital also shows he was in a very serious  
condition upon his arrival and nowhere  near well enough to go home which  was the 
impression the UK hospital had.
-IPAs notes show that it spoke to the hospitals registrar, Dr G, in late August 2017. 
The agent  left no notes to describe the conversation. 
-Dr G, however, has provided  his testimony  about the phone call in a written letter. Dr 
Gs written notes  from the time of Mr Rs admission have also been  supplied to our 
service which  support Dr Gs letter.
-Dr Gs writes that IPA:
osold Mr R to him and the hospitals clinical coordinators as being fit to go 
home. 
oLed him to believe Mr R had already made  a full recovery. 
oThe impression given  to me was that you were  medically fit to return home 
(to your usual place  of residence), and that a plan was for me to assess  you 
in the Accident and Emergency Department  as a formality  prior to allowing 
you back to your home.
Overall, our investigator was persuaded  that: 
-IPA were aware that Mr Rs condition  was still relatively serious and that he needed 
to be admitted to a specialist hospital back home  or they at least  shouldve  been 
aware of this; and 
-IPAs medical team  didnt adequately inform the UK hospital of Mr Rs condition.
The impact  of this is described by our investigator  having taken into account what Dr G 
and Mrs R have said  as follows:
-Mr and Mrs R arrived at the hospital and were seen by two doctors who were both 
expecting Mr R to have  a quick  check over before being sent home. Once it came to 
light that Mr R was still in a serious  condition, problems started to occur.
-The hospital didnt  have any medication  ready because they didnt think Mr R needed 
to be admitted and were under  the impression he had recovered.  
-The hospital abroad only gave Mr R enough medication for the journey  presumably  
as they expected him to be admitted and medicated in the UK. 
-This caused Mr and Mrs R distress while the doctors worked out what  medication he 
had been taking from the medical  records written in another  language. 
-This caused a delay  in Mr R receiving his medication and stress to all parties  
involved.
-The hospital didnt  have a bed prepared for Mr R. At the time, it was dealing with a 
major outbreak and several wards were closed off. This made finding a bed 
considerably more difficult.  
-After several hours of delays while Mr R was in serious pain and in need of careful 
monitoring, he was placed in an unsuitable ward with none of the relevant cardiac 
equipment and expertise he needed. 
-Mr R had to be left overnight before the hospital could arrange his transfer  to a 
specialist cardiac  facility.
-Mr R had to suffer  through this delay while in a serious condition,  which  also caused 
additional distress  to Mrs R.
-Mr R remained  at the specialist hospital for two full weeks  before he was fit enough 
to be discharged.
Ref: DRN28767813Our investigator thought that its likely that a plan would have been put in place for his arrival 
had the hospital been properly informed such as making arrangements for Mr Rs medication 
and a suitable bed at a suitable facility. He accepted  this caused considerable distress  to 
both Mr and Mrs R, including pain and suffering  while Mr R was left in a serious condition 
and while  his care was delayed.
So our investigator recommended that IPA pay £600  to put things right in relation to Mr Rs 
repatriation.
In relation to the remaining part of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about IPAs offer to pay only a 
proportion of the claim, he thought  this was fair in the circumstances and he explained his 
reasoning in detail. However, for completeness, he confirmed that he felt it was fair and 
reasonable for IPA to:
1.settle Mr and Mrs Rs claim taking  into account  the following things:
a.Mrs Rs out of pocket expenses; 
b.The hospital bills Mrs R settled; and
c.The 35% Mrs R owes in line with IPAs partial settlement.
2.reduce any settlement  figure  by the outstanding amount owed to it by Mr and Mrs R. 
Mr and Mrs R have accepted our investigators view. And theyre keen to point out that they 
dont feel any blame sits with the UK hospital.
IPA doesnt accept what the investigator has said in relation  to Mr Rs repatriation.  It says: 
-It doesnt agree that Mr Rs condition was a result of the actions of its agents.
-IPA act as a third party and have a duty to bring  the customer back safely  to the UK. 
Having said this, IPA is only able to pass on the opinions and reports of the treating 
doctors from the hospital abroad.  
-Mr R was taken to hospital for reassessment for the hospital to establish  their own 
opinion of his condition.
-IPA are not in a position to carry out its own assessment of the customer and must 
base its findings  on the medical information  given  to it. Precautions such  as a 
reassessment upon return to the UK are always in place  to ensure the customer is 
safe.
-While  it notes the findings made by this service indicate IPA did not provide sufficient 
information to the UK hospital about the care needed, it took Mr R to a UK hospital 
via A&E as no hospital would admit a patient on IPAs review or that of another 
practise overseas.
-While  the comments from Dr G seem to indicate IPA did provide information to lead 
him to believe the care needed  was more  urgent, IPA are not responsible  for how a 
hospital runs its department and the relevant test should be made by the hospitals 
own staff to determine what is needed.
-So it doesnt agree  that any distress caused  was as a result of IPAs action.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN28767814my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision addresses those issues  
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell both IPA and Mr R that I think the investigator has reached the 
right outcome here.  Ill explain why.
Our investigator gave  IPA the opportunity to send  our service a copy  of the call recordings 
between their medical team and:
1.the treating  doctors abroad  to show that IPA was told Mr R was well enough to go 
home and that he didnt  need any further in-patient  treatment; and
2.Dr G to show  that IPA told the doctor something different to what Dr G has told us.
These call recordings havent been  provided.  Neither has any evidence  to support IPAs  
claim that it isnt responsible for the treatment of Mr R upon  his repatriation  to England.
In the absence of this, and taking into account the evidence that has been given to our 
service  testimony from Dr G and Mrs R and Dr Gs notes  I cant  see that itd be fair or 
reasonable for me to conclude that IPA had no part to play in the treatment Mr R faced when  
he arrived at the UK hospital. And I dont  think its appropriate for IPA to suggest  it can wash 
its hands of all responsibility here by saying it is for the A&E department to make  its own 
decision about the treatment for someone  who is repatriated.
That misses the point  here which is that I think its likely that something different wouldve 
happened if Dr G had been  given accurate information about  the serious nature of Mr Rs 
condition. For example, the A&E department Mr R was sent to wouldve  either  asked IPA to 
make to take him to a different A&E department or made  alternative  arrangements within 
their own hospital. If this had happened, I think that its more likely  that the distress and 
inconvenience outlined  by our investigator  couldve been avoided. 
That isnt to suggest that Mr R would immediately  be admitted on to a ward without the 
hospital running its own checks. But IPA couldve given  the hospital  receiving  Mr R  and Mr 
R  a head start.
In fact, taking into account everything  that has been said,  I think  IPA had an important role in 
what transpired on Mr Rs return.  And I think that, had IPA relayed the information I think it 
was  or should  have been   aware  of from the treating doctors  and what it already knew  
about the delayed repatriation, I think the course of what happened wouldve looked quite 
different for Mr R. And IPA is responsible for the part it played in this.
So, for the reasons set out above, I think its right that IPA should compensate Mr R for the 
distress and inconvenience caused when  Mr R was repatriated. 
Ref: DRN28767815Our awards  are designed to compensate consumers. We look at the impact  this has had on 
the consumer  concerned.  I can see from what has been  said to the investigator how 
distressed Mr and Mrs R have been  by this. 
The impact  of what went wrong here has been  outlined in some  detail  in the investigators 
view and in the background to this complaint. I think an award of £700 in total for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused in this matter is fair and reasonable. I recognise that this is an 
increase of £100 from what the investigator has recommended. But I think its fair to say the 
distress and inconvenience is certainly  substantial and came at a time which  was already 
stressful.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. To put things 
right, Inter Partner  Assistance SA needs  to:
-settle Mr and Mrs Rs claim in the usual way and as outlined  by our investigator;  and
-pay £700 to Mr and Mrs R in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2876781