K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs C bought  the policy in 2009  to cover a mortgage provided by a different financial 
business. Bank of Scotland has assumed that they applied for PPI policy  in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr C for accident and sickness   subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £798.00  a month towards Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage balance in 
the event of a successful  claim. At the time, it cost £21.79  a month. 
At the time,  Mr C was employed  in engineering.  He has told us he was entitled  to statutory 
sick and redundancy  pay and didnt  have any other  means of repaying  his mortgage should 
he be unable  to work. Mr C has said he had a medical condition  at the time of the sale.  
Mrs C wasnt covered  by the policy.
The mortgage was provided by another  lender,  not by Bank of Scotland.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Cs representative says:
Bank of Scotland failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In 
those circumstances,  applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs C 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Cs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Bank of Scotland 
should have told Mr and Mrs C about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Bank of Scotland should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs C 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN22031402The information Mr and Mrs C received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
The mortgage was provided by another  financial  business. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale took place  in 2009 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result,  its appropriate  for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS 
rules and the other relevant  considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN22031403GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Bank of Scotland, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Bank of Scotland was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 
when considering Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Bank  of Scotland gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs C with reasonable 
care and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN22031404-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs C, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs C 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs C 
and Bank  of Scotland, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs C know they had a choice?
Bank of Scotland had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Mr and Mrs C wouldve  completed an application  form specifically for the PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs C knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Bank of Scotland provide advice?
Both Bank of Scotland and Mr and Mrs C agree  that advice was provided  during this sale. 
This means  Bank of Scotland had to advise Mr and Mrs C with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Bank  of Scotland took some steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs C, by asking questions about their emplkoyment  but I 
dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland  did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs C given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland  advised  with reasonable care and 
skill.
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs C, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr C met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs C had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Cs ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
Mr C was not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the 
redundancy and sick pay benefits  they say they would have been  entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs C.
 
Ref: DRN22031405-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs C. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Cs employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing  medical  conditions,  Mr 
and Mrs C has told us about had suffered from depression sometime before the 
policy was sold. I dont  think  this made  the policy unsuitable  theres nothing to 
suggest the problem was ongoing or had caused  Mr C to have any time off work.  
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident and sickness, it still provided useful cover given Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Bank  of Scotland  gave Mr and Mrs C 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Bank of Scotland was recommending to them and make an informed decision about 
whether to follow that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr C was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs C 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Bank  of Scotland  gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs C agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs C Im not persuaded 
Bank of Scotland did enough to present information  about the policy  it was recommending  in 
a way that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland gave Mr 
and Mrs C all of the information they needed  about the policy  to make  an informed decision 
about whether  to follow the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Cs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Cs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
Ref: DRN22031406-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs C about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs C has suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Bank  of Scotland ought to have done either. 
what effect did Bank of Scotlands shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs C? To what 
extent did Mr and Mrs C suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Bank of Scotland didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr and Mrs C. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs C suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs C would have still taken out the policy,  had Bank  of Scotland 
done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland took the steps it should  have done to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs C, I have found that the 
policy was ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs C have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Bank of Scotland had explained 
things properly, Mr and Mrs C would have  acted differently, or whether they would have  
taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs C say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs C had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Bank of Scotland advised  them  that 
there was a suitable product they could buy that would  protect  their mortgage payments in 
the event they were  unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they 
concluded they wanted that product. But they made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Ref: DRN22031407Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Bank  of Scotland told them the exact premium  at 
the point Mr and Mrs C applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs C 
would have been told the cost before the policy started, so if the costs were  significantly at 
odds with their expectations  at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with 
Bank of Scotland at the time,  or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs C would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Bank of Scotland made clear  exactly what  Mr and Mrs C 
would get back  in return in the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr 
and Mrs Cs expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs C thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr C 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr C 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr C be unable  to 
do their own job, a similar job or any paid work  which their experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs C pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs C from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr C was eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
Mr and Mrs C should the insured  risks have become a reality.  Although  Mr C says he had a 
medical condition  some time before the policy was taken out and the policy  wouldnt have 
provided cover had he needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think  better 
information about this exclusion would have  put Mr and Mrs C off agreeing to it. I say this 
because theres nothing to suggest the condition was ongoing  or had caused him to take 
time off work. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr C wouldve been caught  by any of the other  
significant exclusions. So I still think Mr and Mrs C had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
Ref: DRN22031408I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and 
Mrs C might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely  they would have expected to be able 
to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Mr and Mrs C from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs C, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs C had known they could only claim for disability if Mr C was unable  to do both 
his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view he might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into Mr and Mrs Cs thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr C was unable  (through 
disability) to carry on his own occupation  the chances that he would  be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Bank of Scotland may not have told Mr and Mrs C that any claim they made would be limited 
to a 12-month. This may have differed  from what they expected  and might have hoped  for  
but they had limited other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs C would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr C be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs C would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr C was made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs C would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs C would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN22031409Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs C found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs C believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs C in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Bank  of Scotland should  pay Mr and Mrs C compensation, as 
that would  put them  in a better position  than they would have been in if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs C think Bank of Scotland misrepresented the terms of the 
policy in how it described the PPI. While  I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude 
some of Bank of Scotlands statements misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the 
reason why Bank of Scotland failed to act fairly  and reasonably was not because  of what it 
did or didnt  say in the information  it provided   but because the overall information Bank of 
Scotland gave  Mr and Mrs C, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards  I 
consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 2009 when providing  information 
about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Cs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Bank of Scotland  negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs C 
and about the remedy a court might  award  if it were  to find that Bank of Scotland had been 
in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my 
conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  
including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons 
Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable  to put Mr and Mrs C in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN220314010Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 May 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2203140