K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1992. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, and Ill explain why.
After such a long time,  I dont have much information about how Mr and Mrs M came  to buy 
the PPI. Ive not been given any notes  of the meeting in which the PPI was sold.  So I dont 
know what was said. And Halifax hasnt been  able to provide copies of the actual paperwork 
that it thinks Mr and Mrs M wouldve seen or signed  at the time of sale.  But thats not 
surprising as the sale took place  over 26 years ago. So Ive had to decide  what I thinks most 
likely to have happened.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs M has said including that they felt the Halifax  
representative advised them to take the policy. Halifax has said the optional  nature of the 
policy wouldve been explained. Ive not seen anything that clearly shows  Halifax  didnt make 
Mr and Mrs M aware the PPI was optional and the representative may have said Mr and 
Mrs M should  take the PPI but thats different to saying they must take it. So I cant  fairly 
uphold the complaint on this point.
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs M and from what  I have read and been told 
thats probably right. This meant Halifax had to take reasonable steps to make sure the 
policy was suitable  for them. And it seems to have  been right for them,  based  on what  Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time.  I say this because:
Its likely  Mr and Mrs M were eligible for the cover. And I dont think  they wouldve 
been affected by any of the main things  the policy didnt cover,  for example any 
unusual employment  terms  or pre-existing medical  conditions. 
Mr and Mrs M say they both would have  got at least 6 months  full sick pay from their 
employers if they were off work unwell and they said they has savings and shares  
they could have relied on to help with the repayments. 
Ive carefully considered  Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances  and I think  their mortgage  
wouldve been an important and a relatively  long-term financial commitment  for them 
Ref: DRN27794462and importantly, one which  was secured against their home. So I think  the 
consequences of them not being able to keep up payments if their income had 
suddenly dropped, could have been serious. 
This policy would  have paid out for up to 24 months  had they been off work for an 
accident or sickness  this wouldve  been for a longer period than their sick pay 
would lasted and in addition to any sick pay or other means they had. It would have 
meant they couldve kept their savings and shares for other important living  
expenses, in what I imagine would have  been  a difficult  time. 
The policy would also have paid for up to 12 months  if they lost their jobs and this 
wouldve been in addition to any redundancy payment they might have got. So 
overall they couldve found the policy useful.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the cover was unaffordable  for Mr and 
Mrs M  or that they had a particular need to keep the costs down. And as they were 
paying for the PPI monthly, they could cancel it without further  cost if their situation 
changed or they no longer  wanted  it. 
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think that the policy  was suitable  for Mr and 
Mrs M.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr and Mrs M, Halifax  also had to give them  
clear enough  information  about  the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as Ive explained I think  Mr and Mrs M chose the cover and for the 
reasons I mentioned above about why I think the policy  is suitable,  I dont  think  better 
information wouldve  stopped them from buying it.
I know Mr and Mrs M feel strongly,  and have put time and effort into their complaint. I realise  
theyll be disappointed  by the outcome. And its difficult  to decide a complaint when I know 
so little about the sale. But on balance,  for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think theyve 
lost out because of anything  Halifax mayve  done  wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2779446