K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr W says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold him the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr W case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr W says that he was told by Bradford & Bingley that he has to take out MPPI as he was 
self-employed. I wasnt there at the time,  so I cant  know  what was said  I have to base my 
decision on the information I do have. Bradford and Bingley has provided a copy  of Mr Gs 
mortgage application. I can see on this that the MPPI is presented  as an optional product   
and the level of cover required has been  selected. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident and sickness, but not for unemployment. Having 
looked at the policy  terms, I can see that Mr W may have found it difficult to claim for 
unemployment due to his personal  circumstances, so I can see why this choice may have 
been made  but theres nothing to suggest that his employment circumstances required him 
to take any type of cover. Mr W has then signed the application, agreeing  to the information  
on it. So taking everything in to account, I think Bradford & Bingley made it clear that Mr W 
didnt have to take out the MPPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why he cant remember this as it was so long ago.
Bradford & Bingley  didnt  recommend the MPPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr W got the information  he needed to decide  if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr W about the MPPI  wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI  cover - so it would 
have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the MPPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the MPPI  would have  put him off taking 
out the cover. 
This means  Bradford & Bingley  doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the MPPI  to Mr W.
But Bradford  & Bingley will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr W because: 
Bradford & Bingley  got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the MPPI  premium) - so it should  have told Mr W about that. Because  Bradford & Bingley 
didnt tell Mr W, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think  that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN22289212Ive thought about everything Mr W has said - including what hes said about already having 
an insurance policy in place at the time he took out the MPPI, so he didnt  need  cover.  
He says that he didnt mention this policy previously  as hed forgotten  he had it. But Mr W 
doesnt have any evidence of the policy he had  and from what hes said about how the 
policy worked, the MPPI policy  couldve paid out on top of, and for longer than this policy. So 
this point doesnt change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Bradford & Bingley  has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the MPPI premium. Bradford & Bingley should also pay back  to Mr W any 
extra interest he paid because of that.
Bradford & Bingley  should pay back to Mr W the extra he paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Bradford & 
Bingley should  also pay Mr W 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the MPPI to Mr W.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the MPPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2228921