K822xcomplaint
Mr N complained that Landmark Mortgages  Limited said he was two months in arrears with 
his mortgage payments  in 2018.  He believes  he was only one month in arrears.
Mr N wants Landmark to refund the extra arrears charge, and agree  a suitable arrangement 
for him to repay the money he owes.
background 
In the first months of 2018, Mr N made his mortgage payments to Landmark on the last day 
of each month. 
In June, Mr Ns payment didnt come  out of his bank account on the last day as normal. But 
30 June was a Saturday and a payment did reach  Landmark on Monday 2 July. So that was 
Junes payment.
After that, Mr N had difficulty paying  his mortgage. He rang Landmark to let it know that hed 
paid off his payday loans,  which meant he wouldnt be able to make  his monthly payment. 
The next payment  from Mr Ns bank account was made on 11 September. So that counted 
as Septembers payment.  
After that, Mr N made payments on 1 October, 1 November  and 3 December. Those  were  
for October,  November and Decembers mortgage payments.
In October  2018, Mr N complained to Landmark. Landmark had said he was two months in 
arrears and would be charged £40 for each month.  Mr N said hed made  a payment on 2 
July. So he believed he was only one month  in arrears.
Landmark didnt  agree with Mr Ns complaint. In its final response, Landmark said that it 
hadnt received  payments for July or September. Mr N wasnt  satisfied and complained  to 
this service.
The adjudicator looked at Mr Ns bank statements, and Landmarks records.  She set out 
what had happened, and said that Landmarks final response letter  hadnt  been right when it 
said Mr N had missed July and September payments. But he had missed two  July and 
August, for which hed been charged £40 arrears fees each time. 
Since then,  Landmark  had also charged  Mr N a third arrears fee. The adjudicator asked 
Landmark why it had charged a third arrears fee  and Landmark agreed to refund this. It 
had charged Mr N interest on this, so it also reduced  Mr Ns payments slightly,  to sort this 
out and put the account right.   
Following the adjudicators involvement,  Landmark  also agreed an arrangement with Mr N, 
so he could pay off his arrears gradually,  by paying a bit extra from December  2018  to 
September 2019.
Ref: DRN22204262The adjudicator also considered Landmark  should pay Mr N £100 compensation, because  it 
had given the wrong months in its final response letter, and wrongly charged Mr N the third 
arrears fee. Landmark  agreed to do this. 
But Mr N was still unhappy.  He said he was 100% sure hed only missed one payment. He 
said his payments were  taken at the end of the month, or at the beginning of the following 
month, apart  from September 2018. He said that was how it had been  for a very long time,  
and it was totally stressing him out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns payments
In 2018, Mr N needed to make  12 monthly mortgage payments to Landmark but he made 
10. These are the dates when he made payments:
31 January
28 February
31 March
30 April
31 May
Payment which was received by Landmark  Monday 2 July
11 September
1 October
1 November
3 December.
I think the confusion  about the payment at the end of June / early July arose  simply because  
30 June was a Saturday. So it didnt leave  his account until the Monday, which  fell in July. 
Mr N had been due to make a payment  during June, so I think its correct to say that was 
Junes payment. 
But what  matters is that Mr N only made one payment between 1 June and 31 July, and he 
should have made two. So it doesnt really make  a lot of difference whether we say he 
missed June and paid July, or vice versa. And he missed Augusts as well, so that makes 
two missed payments.  So I find that Mr N did owe Landmark for two missed payments in 
2018.
I think some  further confusion may have arisen because of the date of the month when Mr 
Ns payments went to Landmark. In one of Mr Ns recent emails, he told us that If payment 
was taken at the end of the month then it was for that month, if payment was taken in the 
following month then it was for the previous month.  But a mortgage payment is due during 
each calendar  month, and cant be paid for the previous month  like that without counting as 
being paid late. If that happens,  a borrower  risks being charged an arrears  fee and having  
his credit file marked. So, for example, Mr Ns 1 October payment counted as his monthly  
payment for October.  If it had been  a late payment for September, hed have been charged 
an arrears fee for paying late  and his credit file might well have been  affected too. 
Ref: DRN22204263I can see that, if Mr N gets paid late in the month,  hed have felt pressure during 2018  
because of this. Thats because in early 2018 he was paying right on the last day of the 
month in which  his monthly  payment  was due. So he was in time, but only just. And at the 
end of 2018, he was paying  at the start of the month when his monthly payment was due. 
Ideally, its better to pay early each  month,  because then if there  are any problems with a 
payment  for example  a weekend or a bank holiday - things can be sorted  out within the 
calendar month. Then  theres  less risk of going into arrears and being charged a fee. 
If Mr N needs  to change  the date within  the calendar month,  because  of whatever date hes 
paid, he should  talk to Landmark  about whether its willing to agree to this. But hell need to 
be careful his payment  is always made  before the end of the calendar month in which its 
due, even if theres a bank holiday  or a weekend  at the end of a month. Otherwise itll count 
as late.
Arrangement for Mr N to pay his arrears
I see that Mr N and Landmark have now reached  an arrangement for him to pay off his 
arrears gradually. So thats resolved.
Arrears fees and final response letter
As Ive set out above, Mr N paid ten monthly payments in 2018  and he needed to pay 
twelve. So it was correct  that Landmark charged him for two £40 arrears fees. 
But it wasnt  correct for Landmark to charge  a third arrears fee. So I agree with the 
adjudicator that Landmark should re-credit  that, and adjust Mr Ns account  to remove  the 
interest it had charged on that third arrears  fee. 
Landmarks final response was inaccurate  about  the months when Mr N didnt make  his 
monthly payment.  It said they were July and September. Ive set out above what happened  
about the payment in July. But Mr N paid on 11 September.
I find that its fair and reasonable  that Landmark  should pay Mr N £100 compensation for the 
stress and inconvenience which it caused Mr N through  its mistake  in charging a third 
arrears fee, and giving  the wrong  month in its final response.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part:
-I do not uphold  Mr Ns complaint that he was only in arrears for one month, not two, 
in 2018;
-I uphold Mr Ns complaint that he shouldnt have  been charged a third arrears fee in 
2018. I understand Landmark has now re-credited  this and has made the relevant 
account adjustments to correct the interest it charged;
-I order Landmark Mortgages Limited to pay Mr N £100  compensation  for the distress  
and upset it caused him by charging a third arrears fee and the error in its final 
response letter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Ref: DRN22204264Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2220426