K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC treated him at the end of his interest  
only mortgage term. Hes unhappy  that Barclays started legal action  before  considering  all 
other alternatives, and he felt forced to sell his family home  as a result.
background
Mr H had an interest only mortgage with Barclays (trading as Woolwich), the term of which 
ended in August  2017. Mr H wasnt  able to repay the balance at that time,  so Barclays 
agreed to extend  the term for one year to allow Mr H time to sell his home,  or find an 
alternative way to repay the mortgage.
Several conversations took place between Mr H and Barclays  during that period about  
Mr Hs plans to repay  the mortgage balance. Mr H also sent Barclays  information  about his 
business plans,  as he wanted  Barclays to give him more time to allow  him to see these plans 
through, which he said would have allowed him to repay the mortgage without having to sell 
his home.  But by late 2018 the mortgage still hadnt been redeemed.
In November 2018 Mr H complained to Barclays. He gave several reasons why he felt hed 
been treated unfairly. But in summary, he was unhappy that Barclays had not offered him 
any other options to redeem the mortgage  balance other than the sale of his family home. 
He didnt think Barclays had tried to engage  with him about his circumstances and his 
business plans,  and so were starting  legal action  unfairly. 
Barclays issued their final response in December 2018. They explained  that Mr H could 
discuss his proposals  and business  plans  with their maturities team, who would make  an 
assessment of the appropriate next steps.  They also encouraged  Mr H to seek  independent 
advice about other  potential  options  to repay the mortgage if he didnt want to sell his home. 
Barclays explained that any repossession action would be a last resort,  and theyd put action 
on hold whilst considering  his complaint. They did however acknowledge that they hadnt 
replied to Mr Hs letters,  and offered to pay him £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. Since  the complaint has been with us hes sold 
his home  and redeemed the mortgage  balance. Our investigator looked into things, and 
didnt uphold  Mr Hs complaint. He said that Barclays had treated him fairly  by giving him 
more time to redeem  the mortgage than he originally agreed to. He didnt think  it was 
reasonable to expect  Barclays to allow an indefinite period of further time for Mr Hs 
business plans  to come to fruition.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view and asked  for an ombudsmans  decision. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN25315832When Mr H took out this mortgage, he agreed to repay the balance in August 2017. So as a 
starting point, I think its reasonable that Barclays expected the outstanding balance to be 
repaid when the amount  became due. 
However, in the event  that a borrower  is unable to repay the full balance  at the end of the 
mortgage term, Id expect the lender  to consider  the borrowers individual circumstances, 
and the options available  to them, before  deciding  the next steps for collecting the balance. 
So Ive thought about whether Barclays have done  that here, as Mr H was not in a position 
to repay  the full balance when the term ended.
Ive looked at the contact notes for Mr Hs mortgage  account and I can see that multiple 
conversations took place  in recent  years  about Mr Hs plans  for the mortgage.  Unfortunately, 
it seems his original repayment plan (using  the sale proceeds of other properties he owned) 
had already been used  for something  else, and Mr H explained  to Barclays that he had no 
other savings or investments available to him when  the term ended.
In 2017 Mr H told Barclays  that he had a business plan to build seven new properties, from 
which he would be entitled  to 30 per cent of the profits, which he would use to clear the 
mortgage. He was applying for planning  permission at the time but hoped  that hed have the 
profits paid to him within six to nine months.  He said alternatively,  his daughters will help him 
to redeem the mortgage, or he could sell his home. He put the house on the market  as a 
back up option when  the term had ended. Because of this, Barclays agreed to a 12-month 
extension for Mr H to either  sell the house,  or raise funds another way, with regular reviews 
scheduled in. I think this was a reasonable step for Barclays to take given the information 
Mr H had told them about his circumstances, and that it was clear Mr H was trying  to raise 
the funds to clear  the balance in full.
However, after a year had passed, despite  there being interest in Mr Hs property, a sale 
hadnt been achieved, and Mr H hadnt  been able to realise the funds hed expected to come  
from the property development project  either. As a result, Mr H wrote to Barclays  to ask for 
more time to repay the mortgage. I can see Barclays tried to call Mr H to discuss his plans 
with him, but each  time either he didnt answer the phone, or the line got disconnected 
before detailed discussions could take place. As a result, Barclays started  the process of 
taking legal action  to recover the mortgage,  and thats when Mr H complained.
Mr H has said that hes unhappy  Barclays wouldnt  explore  more  options with him before 
starting legal  action. I can understand why Mr H was frustrated, as hed sent Barclays 
information about his plans and had asked for more time to repay  the mortgage, but this 
wasnt granted. I can see that Barclays had tried to contact Mr H by phone on multiple  
occasions to speak to him about  his plans before they moved the account to litigation,  but 
they were unable to make  meaningful  contact  with him. 
Whilst I do think it would have been good  customer service for Barclays to respond to Mr Hs 
letters and ask him to call them to discuss the contents further, from looking at the evidence 
Im satisfied Mr H was aware they were trying to contact him by phone as the notes show 
messages were left, and there were  times  the calls went  through but later got disconnected. 
Barclays have offered to pay Mr H £100 to apologise for the fact that they didnt respond to 
his letters, which I think is a reasonable amount.
Looking at all the evidence I think its a communication  breakdown that led to this complaint. 
As Mr H felt Barclays  werent taking his circumstances  into account and offering alternatives  
Ref: DRN25315833to him having to sell his family home, and Barclays werent able to get in touch with Mr H to 
find out more  details about his plans and his overall options. 
From looking  at the communication that had taken place up to that point, Im persuaded it 
was reasonable  that Barclays wanted up to date information about the progress of Mr Hs 
business plan before agreeing to any more extensions, and I can understand why theyd 
want to speak to him about this on the phone.  As they were unable to do this, and as the 
mortgage term was more than a year past expiry,  I dont  think  it was unreasonable  for 
Barclays to start legal action to recover the mortgage balance.
Its unclear whether Mr H did look into other financing options  that would have enabled him 
to redeem the mortgage and remain in his home. And I note Barclays encouraged him to do 
this in their final response letter. But either way Mr H decided to sell his home in 2020 to 
repay the mortgage, which  he says was to avoid  repossession.
Overall I do empathise with Mr Hs situation.  From  looking at everything hes told us, I can 
understand why he wanted to keep his family  home, and Im sorry he felt he was unable  to 
do that. But whilst I appreciate it will come  as a disappointment  to Mr H, Im not satisfied he 
was put in that position because of unfair treatment by Barclays.  Mr H had an outstanding 
mortgage that needed to be repaid, and in the absence of Barclays  being able to conduct a 
full review of Mr Hs circumstances,  and the options  available to him to repay the balance,  
Im not satisfied they were unfair by starting  legal  action when they did.
Its unclear whether Barclays  have paid Mr H the £100 they offered in their final response 
letter. But if they havent, they should now pay this amount to him on acceptance  of this 
decision. Im not recommending  Barclays take any further action to resolve this complaint.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2021.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2531583