K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint concerns problems  hes encountered  with on-line access  to his trading 
accounts since they were  transferred to a new platform  with Cofunds Limited.
background
In May 2018  Mr R reported  the problems to Cofunds. In short, he was only able to access  
one of his accounts. When  the problems continued he raised a formal  complaint in 
September 2018. Over an extended period  of several months several attempts were made 
to address the matter by providing additional access details. But ultimately it was found that 
there was an IT issue relating to the platform transfer and having two accounts running 
concurrently. 
Cofunds ultimately accepted that its service  had not been satisfactory  and in its final 
response letter of December 2018  it offered Mr R a payment  of £175 to reflect this. Mr R 
didnt think this was sufficient and referred  the complaint  to this service.  
Our investigator considered the matter and concluded that the amount of compensation 
should be increased to £350,  which Mr R accepted. However, Cofunds felt that it was too 
much. It noted that its offer was comparable to the amounts offered to other customers  
whod had experiences similar  to Mr R. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Theres no dispute that Mr R has experienced a frustrating and lengthy  period of difficulties 
since the transfer of his accounts. And its clear from looking at the chronology of events and 
associated documentation  that not only has there  been the actual technical issue thats  
limited his on-line access, but also Cofunds handling of the matter has involved delays and 
failed responses.  
Theres no hard and fast formula for awarding compensation in situations  such as this. We 
look at each situation on its individual merits. And doing so involves giving consideration to 
how the matter has impacted  the person bringing  the complaint. 
Although I accept that the issue doesnt  appear to have prevented Mr R from trading or using 
alternative methods  to get information,  its clearly caused him a great deal of frustration, 
compounded by Cofunds poor response  to the situation. Hes had to initiate contact on 
numerous occasions over many  months. And ultimately the matter has led to him feeling he 
has no choice but to move his investments  away from Cofunds.  
So, in these specific circumstances Im satisfied that increasing the amount of compensation 
to the £350 suggested  by the investigator  is fair and reasonable.  
Ref: DRN24381172my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Cofunds  
Limited to pay Mr R compensation of £350.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2438117