K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Quilter Wealth Ltd mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
In 2007, Quilter sold Mr and Mrs E PPI to protect the monthly repayments on their mortgage 
should Mr E have suffered disablement or become unemployed.
Two of our adjudicators recommended the complaint be upheld   albeit for different reasons. 
Quilter didnt agree with either adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review 
afresh.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mr and Mrs Es case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Regardless of whether  Quilter recommended the PPI for Mr and Mrs E, it had to give them  
information about the PPI that was clear, fair, and not misleading  so they could decide  
for themselves if it was right for them.
There are gaps in the information thats still available  from the sale in 2007. And I havent 
seen enough information to show Quilter  gave Mr and Mrs E clear  enough  information  
about the policy benefits when it sold them the PPI. Quilters pointed  to the annual policy 
reviews sent to Mr and Mrs E asking  them to check that the cover remained suitable. But 
they werent sent until after the sale had already taken place. I think  Mr and Mrs E, like 
most people,  would have placed  emphasis on what  they were  told face-to-face.
I think this lack of information  would  have mattered to Mr and Mrs E when deciding  
whether the PPI was good value for them. I say that because  Mr E worked in a role 
where, as well as getting enhanced sick pay, he had statutory protection against being 
made redundant. So, in reality, while it wasnt impossible that hed have needed to claim 
on the policy for unemployment,  it was nevertheless highly  unlikely. Theoretically, that left 
it possible for Mr and Mrs E to claim for disability but the scope of the policy was 
nevertheless greatly reduced.
In my view, if Mr and Mrs E had been  given clear  enough information  about the PPIs 
benefits, then I think  its most  likely theyd have  realised  that it wasnt that much use to them  
and they wouldnt  have bought it. And if the PPI was recommended  by Quilter,  it seems its 
advice wouldnt have  been suitable  in the circumstances.
There may be other grounds on which the PPI was mis-sold but the reasons outlined  above 
are enough  in themselves for me to uphold  the complaint. So I see no need to discuss  any 
other potential reasons  for upholding the complaint in this decision.
  
Ref: DRN21588782Ive thought carefully about the issues raised by Quilter. But, for example, Ive no reason to 
doubt Mr and Mrs Es account of where Mr E was working when they bought the PPI or that 
his role was protected notwithstanding with his length of service. None of Quilters points 
change my mind about the outcome.
So overall, I think  Mr and Mrs E have lost out because of how Quilter sold them the PPI. 
Quilter should now put things  right for them.
Putting thing right
Quilter should put Mr and Mrs E in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and Quilter should:
Pay Mr and Mrs E the amount they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs E made successful claims under the PPI policy,  Quilter can take off what 
they got for them  from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Quilter to take off tax from this interest.  Quilter  must give 
Mr and Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold the complaint. I require Quilter Wealth Ltd to 
put things right for Mr and Mrs E as explained  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2158878