K821x#15complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the handling  of a claim under his central heating  insurance policy
with Royal  & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA). RSA uses  claims-handling  agents  to deal
with claims on its behalf. All references  to RSA in this decision, should  be read as including
things said and done on its behalf  by those agents.
background
I have issued two provisional decisions on this matter, in which I set out the background and 
circumstances of the complaint and my provisional findings. I have copied part of my first 
provisional decision below: 
Mr M made a claim under his policy  in 23 May 2019, as his heating  was coming on when
the hot water was on. RSA sent a gas engineer out who said a gas valve  needed  to be
replaced. This was done and the boiler  was working.
The engineer also said he would service the boiler  while he was there. Mr M didnt want the
boiler serviced then,  as there was another two/three  months until it was due and it was also
already evening by then.  After servicing the boiler,  the engineer could not get the boiler  to
stay on and Mr M was left without heating  or hot water.
RSA arranged for the manufacturer to attend to look at the fault with the boiler  on its behalf.
The manufacturers engineer went out on 28 May 2019 and said that a thermocouple  and a
gas valve were needed  and both were obsolete, so the boiler was beyond  economical  repair
(BER).
Mr M is very unhappy with this.
RSA says it will only fit parts that are obtained  from approved stockists and which come with
a guarantee and the required parts were not available from such  sources.  It offered £40
compensation for the delay and lack of communication. RSA also said the annual service  is
not provided as part of the insurance cover and so any part of the complaint about the
annual service is not within our jurisdiction.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. The investigator initially  recommended  the
compensation be increased  to £100  to reflect  the fact the annual  service  should not have
been carried out at the visit in May 2019  but later agreed with RSA that we dont  have
jurisdiction to deal with a complaint about the annual service,  as its not part of the insurance
contract. He therefore said the £40 compensation offered was reasonable.
Mr M does  not accept the investigators assessment and so the matter has been passed to
me. He has made a number of submissions, which Ive summarised below:
His boiler was working properly  and efficiently until RSAs engineer negligently broke
it while carrying out a service, which he should not have done.  This left him and his
wife, both pensioners,  with no heating or hot water for over three weeks  and a bill of
£2,000 to have a new boiler fitted. The £40.00 compensation  offered is therefore  an
insult.
The engineer  arrived late.
He was not told the boiler was considered to be BER until he called RSA on 29 May
2019.
Ref: DRN25903082He has seen the required parts for sale online but he has now had to replace the
boiler.
The complaint  is not with RSA but with the claims-handling agents, as that is who the
service contract was with and they did not adhere to the guidelines set out in their
terms and conditions: i.e. contact with customer before  arranging  a service  and
engineer time scales.
jurisdiction
Before I was able to consider the complaint, I had to be satisfied that it was within our 
jurisdiction and that it was therefore a complaint that I have the power to look at. 
I determined that our rules mean that I can consider  the part of Mr Ms complaint that relates  
to the insurance  contract  but not the part of Mr Ms complaint that relates to the service  
contract. This means I cant  consider whether it was fair or reasonable for the engineer to 
carry out the annual service  in May 2019 when attending to the claim, or whether in doing 
the service he broke the boiler but that I can consider RSAs handling of the matter after the 
boiler stopped  working.
I also explained that the rules mean  that I can only look at RSAs  role in effecting and 
carrying out the insurance contract, as the insurance  principle, i.e. the insurer  that has 
underwritten the policy. This means  I can consider any action taken  on RSAs behalf  by the 
claims-handling agents but claims-handling on its own is not a regulated activity. So while  Mr 
M says the complaint is about  the claims-handlers, I have no jurisdiction over them  in their 
own right.  
I remain satisfied that this is the case  and no other  information has been provided to change  
this. 
my provisional findings and further evidence
I considered all the evidence provided and made a provisional decision about  what I thought 
the appropriate outcome should be. I will set out the main  points  again  below.    
The job sheet from the initial  visit in May 2019 says Found 3 port valve spindle seized up,
oiled and ensured it remained loose. Initial fault fixed. Serviced boiler and then pilot light
would not stay on. Replaced thermocouple as these  can crack when they go cold,  checked
thermistor interruptor and continuity measured ok. Coil in gas valve  at fault but this part is
now obsolete.
I can understand Mr Ms concern and dissatisfaction about  this. The fault he had reported
had been fixed  and his boiler  was working.  The engineer then decided to service the boiler,
against Mr Ms wishes, resulting in his boiler not working. 
As explained above, I am unable to consider  the complaint that the engineer  should not 
have serviced the boiler then or what he might have done to cause the boiler  to stop 
working. I know Mr M is deeply dissatisfied that the annual service provider/claims-handler  is 
getting away without  any responsibility for its part in this but for the reasons already 
explained above, this is not something  I have any power  to consider. I am therefore unable  
to make any finding, or make any award in relation to the fact the boiler was broken and not 
working.
Ref: DRN25903083However, I can consider  what happened next. This is because the boiler was not
working and the policy  with RSA provides that it will carry out repairs  if there is a boiler  
failure. 
RSA arranged for the manufacturer to attend on its behalf to complete the repairs  and that
engineer determined the boiler was BER.  RSA said the part required was apparently  
obsolete and no longer available. 
Mr M had said hed seen  some parts available online but hed had the boiler replaced and 
there was no independent evidence  of this at the time of issuing my first provisional decision. 
I didnt think there was enough  evidence to be satisfied the boiler was repairable at the time. 
In response to my first provisional decision Mr M provided evidence that the required parts 
are still for sale online. 
The investigator sent this evidence to RSA. RSA confirmed that the online supplier Mr M had 
provided details  of was one of its pre-approved suppliers. However, it said its contractor told 
it that the parts were  obsolete  and it also contacted  the manufacturer who also said they 
were obsolete. It had no reason to doubt that at the time. 
RSA also says it has checked and the part numbers that are required for Mr Ms boiler are 
2000800208 (for the gas valve) and S202435 (for the thermo  couple) whereas the part 
numbers identified as available by Mr M are 2000800015 and S90000 respectively. RSA 
therefore says its likely Mr M has found the same parts but for another model of boiler. It still 
therefore says the parts  were obsolete and the boiler could not have been repaired. 
I considered the evidence  around this in my second provisional decision. 
I looked at the suppliers  website for the parts Mr M identified, i.e. 2000800015 for the gas 
valve and S90000 for the thermo couple.  They are both available and the website  says these 
would both fit a Glowworm Mk II 40 boiler.  Mr Ms boiler is recorded  in RSAs file, as being  a 
Glowworm Mk II 40b. So I was satisfied that these  would appear to be the correct parts.
I also looked up the part numbers that RSA says are the correct part numbers, i.e. 
2000800208 and S202435. The same supplier   which RSA confirmed was an approved  
supplier - has these in stock currently for £294 and £18.35 respectively.
Given this, I provisionally determined that the boiler  was repairable,  as genuine parts,  from a 
reputable supplier are still available,  and so were likely to be available at the time of the 
claim.
I then had to consider  the appropriate  way to put this right for Mr M. 
RSA would have  been responsible for repairing  the boiler but not replacing it. The cost of the 
parts identified as needed  by RSA is £312.35  (which is more than the cost of the parts 
identified by Mr M). I had no evidence of the labour costs of fitting  these replacement  parts,  
so I provisionally determined that a global sum to incorporate the cost of the parts and 
labour, and compensation for the delays in dealing with the claim would be appropriate. 
I had set out in my first provisional decision  that RSA should  pay £350 for the avoidable 
delay of five days  in declaring the boiler BER, during which  Mr M was without a working 
boiler. There was also the trouble caused in Mr M having to resolve  the issue with the boiler  
Ref: DRN25903084himself, when RSA should have repaired it under the policy.  Overall, I determined  in the 
second provisional decision that a total compensation  payment of £850 (to include 
compensation for the delays and an estimate of the cost of the repairs)  should be paid to   
Mr M. 
responses to my second provisional  decision
RSA does not accept my second provisional decision. It said it has provided  evidence that 
the parts Mr M located were not the correct  ones, as the manufacturer part numbers were 
different.
Mr M also does  not accept my second  provisional decision. He has said he did not replace 
the boiler out of choice. RSA had told him it had to be replaced and so gave him no 
alternative; it was only afterwards that he investigated and found the parts were widely 
available and that the boiler could have been  repaired. Mr M says the total sum of at least 
£1,000 compensation would be more appropriate for all the stress and worry caused  to him 
and the expense of replacing  the boiler. 
Mr M also points  out that I have  referred to a different company in part of my second 
provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA says the part numbers needed  to repair Mr Ms boiler are the ones provided to it by the 
manufacturer (i.e. 2000800208 and S202435)  and it says these  were  already unavailable at 
the time of the claim. However, RSA has not acknowledged that I set out in my second 
provisional decision that I also checked these  part numbers from the same supplier (which it 
has already confirmed is one of its approved  suppliers) and they are still available.  
So while I did not necessarily agree  that the part numbers Mr M identified were not the right 
ones, the fact remains that both sets of part numbers - including the ones RSA says are 
needed - are still available  for sale from this supplier. I therefore  remain  of the view that the 
boiler was repairable and should  have been repaired under the terms of Mr Ms policy cover. 
As it was not repaired, I consider RSA should  pay what  the repairs  would  likely  have cost 
and additional  compensation  for the trouble caused by it incorrectly  refusing to repair the 
boiler and the delay  in handling  the claim.  I had to make an estimate of the likely labour 
costs of the repair and also thought it was fair to consider the cost of the parts that RSA had 
identified (as these were  higher than those  identified by Mr M), which  is £312.35. 
I remain of the opinion therefore  that an overall  payment of £850 is reasonable to take 
account of the likely costs of the repair that should  have been  done and compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by this matter. This includes being without heating 
and hot water and the trouble of having  to arrange a new boiler and is in line with awards  
made in similar cases. 
Finally, I did refer to a different company name  in one part of my second provisional 
decision. This was an error for which I apologise. This error does not affect the meaning  of 
the section, or the outcome of this matter.  
Ref: DRN25903085my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc in part and require it to 
pay Mr M the total of £850 compensation, in lieu of repairs and for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or
reject my decision  before 25 October  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2590308