K822xcomplaint
Mrs O says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mrs O took out in 1995. It was added  to her 
account when  she applied for the card in store.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was planning to uphold the complaint. Mrs O 
had nothing further to add. FICL replied to reiterate the points it had already made about 
Mrs Os level of sick pay, which Ive covered below. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Os complaint  because  at the time of sale she was entitled to six 
months full sick pay and six months half sick pay, and she had savings worth more than 
three months of her salary. This means  she could  have  met her credit card repayments for at 
least twelve months without the policy. So I think Mrs O probably wouldnt have wanted the 
policy if shed properly  understood  the cost and benefits.
I dont think Mrs O wouldve bought the policy if FICL had given her enough information 
about it. So, I think Mrs O has lost out because of what FICL did wrong.
Ive taken into account FICLs comments including that it doesnt think Mrs O wouldve had 
the level of sick pay she claims. But I still think I should uphold  the complaint. I asked FICL 
to provide evidence  to back  up what  it was saying, but it was unable  to do so. FICL 
suggested I search online for information about the level of sick pay at Mrs Os employer.
Having done so, I have found  evidence that sick pay entitlement  at Mrs Os employer 
changed in 2013 to the lower level that FICL  suggested she wouldve had. But prior to this, 
the evidence suggests it was at the level Mrs O has claimed. So Im satisfied  that she most 
likely had the level of sick pay mentioned  above.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs O in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should  find out how much Mrs O would have owed when she closed her credit card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. FICL should then refund the 
Ref: DRN20199582difference between  what  Mrs O owed when she closed her account and what  she would 
have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs O made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should  add simple interest on the difference between  what Mrs O would have owed 
when she closed  her account from when she closed  it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.  
C.If  when FICL works out what  Mrs O would have  owed each  month without PPI  Mrs O 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs O paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs O 
wouldve owed  FICL something on her credit card.  The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year. 
D.FICL should  tell Mrs O what  its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give
Mrs O a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask MRs O to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2019
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2019958