K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2001 Mr and Mrs M bought PPI at the same time as they applied  for a mortgage. The 
policy was in Mr Ms sole name and gave  him protection against  accident, sickness  and 
unemployment. They paid a monthly  amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  so the complaint was 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say they had no knowledge or awareness of the PPI at the time of the 
sale. But on Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  application form Mr M signed to confirm he 
wanted to take out PPI. He then went on to sign a separate  PPI application form, 
answering a number of questions to confirm his eligibility for the cover. This form also set 
out the cost of the PPI separately.  Overall, I think Halifax  made it clear to Mr and Mrs M 
that the PPI was optional,  and they agreed to take it out for Mr M. I can understand they 
might not remember  this given how long ago the sale was.
Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr M, and I think it seems  to have been right for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. He wasnt entitled  to any sick 
pay and had no savings  or other insurances. The PPI would have paid out for up to 
24 months for all accident, sickness and unemployment claims. Mr and Mrs M were 
borrowing quite a large sum over a long period, secured on their home. So the effects of 
not keeping up with the repayments could have been serious for them. Overall, I think 
the PPI would have been useful for them  if Mr M was sick, had an accident or lost his 
job.
Mr M says he wasnt given all the relevant information at the time of the sale. I agree its 
possible Halifax didnt  give Mr and Mrs M all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. The cost was clear on the PPI application form however, and the 
PPI was competitively priced  and apparently affordable. And Mr M doesnt appear to 
have been affected  by any of the main  exclusions  or limitations (such as those affecting 
people with pre-existing medical  conditions or on certain  types of employment  contract).  
Overall, I dont think better information  wouldve changed  their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs M have  lost out because of any problems with this sale. 
Ref: DRN25700802my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2570080