K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  keeps sending  her a new debit 
card and this inconveniences her. 
background
Miss S says that Barclays keeps replacing  her debit card. She says Barclays doesnt give 
her any notice or explanation, just a text to say that a new one is on its way. And when she 
has asked they say her card may have  been  compromised.  But Miss S says theres nothing  
wrong with her card and there never has been.
Miss S explains that she feels the impact on her is significant. She says she cares for her 
mother and is also disabled herself. On one occasion she wasnt able to get a taxi for her 
elderly mother from the hospital as the details  they had were for the old card.  Also, tickets 
shes bought online were affected as she needed  to show  the card she paid with and so they 
were withheld  for a time.  
Miss S complained to Barclays. In response it:
-explained that a new debit card was sent to Miss S in April 2019 and that this was as 
a result of either internal or external intelligence it had received. It also gave an 
example of the type of intelligence it receives which would lead to a card being 
replaced. 
-explained that it couldnt give specific details  as this might  compromise ongoing  
investigations. 
-confirmed Miss S also had new debit  cards in October 2018, May 2018 and 
December 2016. 
-highlighted that its responsibility is to protect Miss S card from fraud and losses.
Notwithstanding this, it apologised for any distress and inconvenience  caused by the issue of 
the replacement  card in April 2019  and offered Miss S compensation of £100.
Miss S wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to our service. 
When sending the information to our service, Barclays explained that Miss S still has use of 
the old card until the new one is actually used.
Our investigator looked into matters. She felt the steps Barclays  had taken were  to protect 
Miss S and her account rather than intentionally  causing her distress.  As such, she didnt 
think Barclays had acted  unreasonably. And she thought that the offer made  by it to pay 
£100 as compensation for any distress  and inconvenience caused was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. So she didnt uphold Miss S complaint.  
Miss S disagrees. She makes  a number of points including the following: 
-On a previous  occasion when she says the same thing had happened, Barclays paid 
her £200  and made her feel as though her complaint  had been  taken  seriously. So 
she feels that continuing to cause her such inconvenience means less to Barclays 
now than it did before. 
-She has no confidence that this will not continue.
Ref: DRN20647762-Now, when using  her card, its always in her mind that this could set off her card 
being replaced and she shouldn't have to live this way. 
-Her mother who shops at most of the same places hasnt had her card replaced.
-She feels that this is a computer generated replacement for Barclays  protection. If it 
was for her protection,  she feels the bank could tell her how it was being  
compromised so she could stop using that location.
-Shes thinking of closing her own and her mothers accounts with Barclays.  
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Miss S that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont  uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
The bank has systems  in place which will use various criteria to recognise  unusual activity or 
spending patterns.  It also has intelligence  provided to it both internally and externally. This 
will be from both online purchases and those  in person as well as cash  machine 
transactions. It will use this information  along  with other information to determine  whether 
theres a risk the card has been  compromised.  It doesnt tell customers what those criteria or 
sources are as this would compromise its ability to prevent  fraud and protect its customers;  it 
could also have an impact  on any ongoing investigations. Unfortunately  this means  that 
there will be times when Barclays thinks a card has been compromised  or theres  a risk that 
it has been compromised  when that isnt always the case. But I cant fairly find this is the 
banks fault or that it has done  anything  wrong  in reacting to this information and issuing its 
customer  in this matter, Miss S  a replacement card. In fact, if it failed to act on such  
information and something happened  to a customers account or personal  details, Barclays  
would be criticised for this. 
Whilst I appreciate its inconvenient  to have your debit card details  changed, I think  the 
inconvenience of this is outweighed by the impact  that being  the victim of fraud  can have. 
And I think this is what Barclays was seeking to do here  protect Miss S account from the 
risk of fraud  which it perceived  to be so significant that it issued her a new debit card.  
In terms of the specific issues Miss S mentions, I think this can be mitigated  by taking the old 
card and some other identification with her at the time of collecting tickets,  for example. Miss 
S mentions on a number of occasions  that shes thinking of closing  her account as well as 
her mothers. This is her decision  to make.  
Taking into account everything  Ive said above, I dont agree that Barclays has done 
anything wrong  in this matter. However, I note that Barclays has offered to pay Miss S 
compensation of £100 for any distress  and inconvenience in this matter and so I dont agree 
that itd be fair or reasonable to ask it to do anything further.
Ref: DRN20647763I understand why Miss S might draw parallels with a previous complaint she had against 
Barclays. But we look at the facts of each  individual complaint in deciding whether we think 
the matter has been  handled fairly  and reasonably.  Having done  so here, I think it has for the 
reasons set out above.
I know Miss S will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what  
we  in trying to informally resolve her dispute  with Barclays  can do for her.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss S complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2064776