K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest)  wont support his request  for 
a refund of goods he bought with his NatWest credit  card that he believes are faulty.  
He would like the goods to be returned  and a refund or compensation.
background
Mr R said he used his NatWest credit  card to buy some doors in July 2018. He says 
although the doors were correctly fitted  he found  they misted  up on the outside.  He says this 
reduced the visibility   
He says the retailer said this was normal. Mr R feels the windows were misrepresented  to 
him. And that had he been  aware they could mist up he wouldnt  have bought them.
NatWest said it considered both a Chargeback  and Section 75 request. But didnt have 
sufficient evidence for either. There was no independent report  to support a Chargeback  
request and no evidence to support  a breach  of contract or misrepresentation for a Section 
75 claim.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint.  She found the misting  of the windows to be a 
natural occurrence  and not something that had to be pointed out as part of the sales  
process. So she didnt  feel there  was any misrepresentation that would justify  a Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  refund.  She found  it was fair for NatWest to discontinue  the 
Chargeback process  once  it had contesting information from the retailers bank. 
NatWest accepted this view but Mr R didnt.
Mr R said he accepted  the misting was a natural occurrence but remained of the view this 
information should have been  readily  available to him. He felt he had suffered a loss as he 
bought the doors to enjoy  a far reaching view. He said he has no view and this has caused 
him a lot of stress.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R feels strongly  about this so I appreciate he is going to be disappointed as Ive reached 
the same  conclusion as our investigator.
As I understand it Mr R says the doors he bought mist up in the early morning and frost 
builds up on the outside of the windows between Decembers through  to April. Mr R seems to 
have accepted the retailers view that this is a natural  phenomenon. His main issue  seems to 
be he feels he should have been  advised of this at the point  of sale. He says if he had been  
told that was the case he wouldnt have bought those particular windows.
In this complaint  I have  to consider what NatWest has done. From the information  I have  
been given NatWest considered the two usual forms of redress  when there is an issue with 
goods bought using  a credit card. Firstly a Chargeback and then a Section 75 claim.  I think  it 
might be helpful if I explain how these work.
Ref: DRN24404662The Chargeback Scheme is a voluntary one that banks dont have to adhere to - and they 
have the discretion whether to put a claim  forward  or not. If a bank does put a claim forward  
it is expected  to have sufficient  information to believe  a claim might be successful.  There  is 
no guarantee that a claim will be successful.  And the bank does have to supply full 
supporting evidence to the retailers bank. 
In this case it seems NatWest felt that Mr Rs complaint came under not fit for purpose. 
From its contact  notes I can see it started the Chargeback process.  It removed the two 
payments Mr R had made.  Unfortunately the retailer contested the charge.  
I can see NatWest asked  Mr R for an independent  report  or some independent evidence to 
support his claim that the doors werent  fit for purpose. The retailer  claimed he had provided 
what was agreed.  Mr R wasnt able to provide  any independent evidence.
I dont think it was unreasonable  for NatWest to ask for independent  evidence  to support 
Mr Rs claim that the windows werent  fit for purpose.  As it didnt get this I dont think  it was 
unreasonable to conclude  that Mr Rs claim was a weak one that it couldnt  support.
In terms of a Section  75 claims  - for such a claim to be successful there needs to be 
evidence of a breach  of contract  or misrepresentation.  
NatWest didnt feel it had any evidence to support a Section  75 claim and whilst I appreciate 
this isnt the conclusion Mr R wants I am inclined  to agree with NatWest.   
I dont feel I have been given any evidence that there was a breach of contract that would 
justify a Section  75 claim. I dont think Mr R is saying he didnt get what he ordered. More 
that the product was misrepresented as he wasnt told the doors would be liable to mist up
I dont feel that not explaining the natural effects of the weather on glass  doors is sufficient to 
say there  was misrepresentation. I am not sure what efforts Mr R made to get an 
independent or expert view. I think I would have  been more  persuaded had he given me 
some evidence that this was a specific issue with this product only.  And that the issue  was 
such that it would be expected this would be advised as part of the sales  process.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2440466