K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about The National  Farmers Union Mutual  Insurance Society Limited  
(NFU). He isnt happy that it wont settle  a claim under his home insurance policy.
background
Mr B made a claim under  his insurance  policy following a water  leak at a property he owned.  
NFU investigated the claim  and appointed  a loss adjuster. But it didnt meet  the claim as it 
didnt think that Mr B had answered all its questions about the circumstances surrounding his 
claim thoroughly enough. As such,  it didnt pay the claim. So, Mr B complained to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought that 
NFU had undertaken a reasonable investigation and had asked  reasonable questions  
around the dates  the previous tenants lived at the property amongst  other things. And as 
Mr B didnt provide  the detail required (like a copy of the previous  tenancy  agreement or 
bank statements showing rent payments) he didnt think  NFU had acted unreasonably.
As Mr B didnt agree  the matter has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and despite my natural 
sympathy for the position  Mr B finds himself, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  
why.
When Mr B made a claim  following a leak at a property he owned  there  appears  to have 
been some  doubt  as to when the property was last occupied and rented out. There was a 
suggestion that the property wasnt occupied for a while before the claim was made. And this 
could have invalidated the claim. However, Mr B appears to say that he stayed at the house 
occasionally while he was renovating the property. 
But when NFUs loss adjuster  attended  the property there wasnt any evidence of anyone 
living or staying at the property. Although it was acknowledged that there  was a small seat 
that could be used as a bed there  wasnt any furniture at the property or items  associated 
with habitation.  Given the discrepancies NFU asked  Mr B a series of questions around the 
occupancy of the property and for some evidence  around the previous tenants  occupancy.  
But Mr B didnt think that its questions were  fair and said that he would struggle to get any 
previous tenant  details  in any event. And he refused  to meet  NFUs loss adjuster again  to 
allow further investigation.
I know Mr B may find all of this frustrating and difficult, but an insurer  is entitled to ask 
questions like this when  it is looking to validate  a claim and there  isnt anything unusual  
about NFUs  actions here. I would expect Mr B to cooperate with NFU and to provide the 
details that it requires no matter how frustrating or time consuming he finds  this.
I note that Mr B has indicated in his latest representation to this office  that he would be 
happy to meet NFUs loss adjuster now. This may well allow NFU to move  things  forward 
and decide whether it is able to meet the claim or not. But given the clauses outlined in 
Mr Bs policy  about occupancy I dont think its line of enquiries  are unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN22530112my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2253011