K820x#14complaint
Ms M says U K Insurance  Limited  hasnt  made  a fair settlement  offer for her car following a 
claim on her car insurance policy.
background
Ms Ms car was written off following an accident.  UKI has valued  the car at £12,813. Ms M 
says she bought the car for £14,500  in March  2018.  She has a letter from a dealer saying a 
similar car was retailing  for £13,970 in January 2019. And Ms M says UKIs offer means she 
cant buy a like-for-like replacement car.
UKI didnt  uphold Ms Ms complaint about  the valuation  and so she brought  it to us. The 
investigator who looked at it thought UKIs offer was fair and didnt think it should be 
increased.
Ms M has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
My starting point is Ms Ms car insurance  policy. This says UKI wont pay more than the 
market value of Ms Ms car at the time of any loss (less any excess  that may apply). The 
policy says the market value is the cost of replacing  Ms Ms car with another  of the same  
make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
I should say that my role in looking at Ms Ms complaint isnt to place a value on her car. 
Instead, its to decide  if UKIs offer is within a fair and reasonable range. We think the fairest  
way for an insurer to decide the market value  of a car is to look at the main motor  industry 
guides. We think these  are persuasive, largely because their valuations are based  on 
nationwide research  and likely  sales  figures rather than, for example, advertised prices. But 
we also accept there are fluctuations in the valuations these guides give, because placing a 
value on a car isnt an exact science.
After Ms Ms car was written off, UKI had it inspected by a third party  engineer. He valued  
the car at £12,408 (less any excess). In his valuation, he noted the valuation given by one of 
the industry guides, CAP, of £10,750 was lower than that given  by another, Glasss,  which  
was £11,840.  From a starting figure of £11,650, he added £568 to take account of Ms Ms 
alloy wheels  and media pack and £190  for the cars  mileage. When  Ms M disputed this 
figure, UKI increased its offer by another £405  to £12,813 (less any excess).
The investigator who looked at Ms Ms complaint looked at the valuations given by the four 
main industry guides. As he explained in his view to Ms M, three  of them  gave lower  
valuations than that offered by UKI. And he noted that the other  guide,  Parkers,  only gives 
valuations for the last three months, so he couldnt rely on it for an accurate valuation.
Ref: DRN20716002I understand Ms M wants a settlement value that means she can buy a like-for-like 
replacement car. I can understand why she wants this. But under the terms of her car 
insurance policy, I dont  think thats what shes entitled to.
I agree  with our investigator that, in valuing her car at £12,813 (which is higher than the 
valuations our investigator found were given by all the main industry guides) UKI has acted  
fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms of Ms Ms car insurance policy.  I dont think  it 
needs to increase its valuation and pay her more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2071600