K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about Santander  UK Plcs refusal to open an account for him.
background
Mr A tried to open an account with Santander.  He tells us during the account opening 
process the adviser suggested to him that there  would be no problem opening the account  
for him. This was because  the adviser said he met the banks eligibility  criteria.  But when it 
came to it, his application to open  the account  was declined. He appealed this decision but 
the appeal wasnt  upheld by the bank.
Mr A thinks  this is because either  Santander  keyed in the wrong  information  or it got his 
credit file and CIFAS  information mixed up with another person who lives at the same 
address and has other personal data in common with him. He also explained  to us the 
mistakes other financial institutions  had made  when hed applied for credit  with them and he 
thinks this is relevant to what happened here.
Santander told us it keyed in Mr As correct information when assessing  his application. 
Nonetheless, on this occasion it decided not to offer him an account. It pointed out it is 
entitled to exercise  its commercial discretion  to refuse an application to open  an account.
Dissatisfied, Mr A came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint. She did not recommend upholding it. In short, 
she wasnt persuaded that Santander  had made the mistakes Mr A was worried about when 
deciding whether to open  an account for him. Neither did she think that the mistakes made 
by other  financial businesses and what theyd done to put them right,  had anything  to do with 
this complaint.
Santander accepted this recommendation but Mr A did not. In summary, Mr A repeated  his 
previous stance. He also explained why he was worried about  his ability to get credit in the 
future. He told us about what he had been  doing to make  sure the information on his credit 
file was accurate.  He talked about  the information  that CIFAS held on another  individual  and 
the impact of this on him. He expressed concern that Santanders application  process was 
flawed and he suggested the Equality Act 2010  might have been breached.
Mr A asked that an ombudsman review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has provided detailed submissions to support  this complaint. But my findings are 
expressed in considerably  less detail and I dont go into every  point  he has raised.  I realise 
this may disappoint Mr A, that is not my intention, far from it. However, our rules  allow  me to 
do this. My role is to make a final decision based on all of the evidence before me, and in 
doing so I look at the complaint as a whole and focus on those elements that I consider to be 
material to the outcome.
Ref: DRN20832512I can well understand  that Mr A is upset that Santander refused him an account.  He has 
given us his take on why he thinks this happened. Santander says this isnt so. Where  there  
is a dispute about what happened, (as is the case here), I have based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have  happened  
in the light of the evidence.
Mr A is concerned that what  he considers to be his unique personal identifiers were  not input 
into the application process, he talks about his date of birth and middle  name in particular.  
But, Santanders records show  that it did have and input both pieces of data. Ive no reason 
in the circumstances to think Santander  has provided us with inaccurate information  on this 
point.
Further, he thinks perhaps it declined  his application  because  his credit  file is mixed up with 
someone elses. Santander does not maintain his credit file, so if that was inaccurate, I could 
not fairly  hold Santander responsible for this. He also points to the information held on 
CIFAS about another individual.  But again Santander does not manage that information  and 
cannot be held responsible for what Mr A says are the inaccuracies there.
It seems  Mr A would like us to go forensically through each step of the application and 
appeal process. He would like to know what information was input  at each stage and what  
criteria Santander was looking  for. I get why he wants us to do this because  he thinks  it 
didnt use his specific information. He has suggested that at some  points for instance it did 
not use his middle  name when it should have done,  according to his analysis of the situation.  
But Santander has told us enough  about what information it took from Mr A and used when 
coming to its decision, to make me think, on balance it was his information that it input and 
based its decision on.
Further, Banks take a number of factors into account when deciding to lend.  Nothing  Ive 
seen though shows that Santander based its decision on mistaken information as Mr A 
thinks is the case.
Santander talks about its commercial discretion  when it comes to lending.  In other words it is 
saying it gets to choose who it lends  to. It is primarily for lenders to decide what credit  to 
make available and on what  terms, as long as lending decisions are made legitimately. Ive 
not seen anything here to suggest  that Santander exercised its commercial discretion 
illegitimately.
Mr A is unhappy with Santanders systems.  Mr A suggests these are flawed because they 
dont operate  in the manner he thinks they should.  What systems a bank has is an internal 
matter for individual businesses to decide. We dont have the power  to tell a business  to 
change its systems. But we can look at whether those systems mean that Mr A was treated 
unfairly. He mentions the appeal process for example. But nothing I can see suggests that 
the manner, in which Santander  carried out the appeal process  or any other process in 
relation to his application, means  that it had an unfair impact on Mr A, just because  it did not 
work in the way Mr A thought it should.
Mr A talks about the mistakes other financial businesses  have made.  Just because they 
made errors it doesnt necessarily follow Santander  did too. 
I do understand that Mr A worries about  getting  credit in the future. But a hypothetical 
potential situation  is not something  I have the power to deal with in this complaint.
Ref: DRN20832513Neither am I able to deal with the new points he raises in relation to what he has said about  
discrimination under  the Equality Act. This appears  to be a new matter  and has not been 
considered by Santander in its final response to Mr A. It follows  that I am unable  to look at 
this matter in this final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2083251