K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited failed to advise him properly about  the 
costs he was incurring  for outpatient treatment. As a result,  he exceeded  his benefit limit 
under his employers group private medical insurance policy. 
background
The policy was subject  to an annual benefit limit of £1,500 for outpatient treatment.
In August  2017,  Mr B called Aviva  to seek authorisation for a consultation. Aviva agreed to 
provide cover for this. Mr B went on to have further investigations and consultations. He later 
found that he had exceeded the £1,500 outpatient  benefit limit and so was liable for a 
shortfall of over £1,000. He complained to Aviva  that it was its failings which  had caused him 
unwittingly to exceed his limit.
Aviva didnt uphold  his complaint. It said it had authorised only the initial consultation and it 
was Mr Bs responsibility to ensure he didnt exceed  his benefit limit. It said it had sent him 
statements of account each time it had received an invoice from his treatment providers. 
Mr B was unhappy at Avivas response and referred  his complaint to us.
Our casework team manager  recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In her 
opinion, Aviva had acted reasonably.
Mr B didnt accept the casework team managers findings. He said that when  he made his 
initial telephone call to Aviva he was unwell and so would  have had difficulty in taking in the 
information he was given. He also said that he didnt receive  any statement of account  from 
Aviva until November 2017 by which time hed already received treatment in excess of the 
£1,500 limit.
In view of the continued  disagreement the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Ive listened to the phone call when  Mr B asked Aviva to authorise his consultation. Im 
satisfied that Avivas representative  drew Mr Bs attention to the £1,500  outpatient benefit 
limit. Mr B says he was unwell  at the time of this call. I sympathise with him but I dont  think  
Aviva was required to do anything else in this call to warn Mr B about the risk of exceeding 
his benefit limit.
Mr B went  on to have further investigations  and consultations on an outpatient basis. He 
didnt seek authorisation for these in advance  from Aviva. It was therefore up to him to check 
with his treatment  providers how much this treatment  was costing to ensure he didnt exceed 
his limit. It appears Mr B didnt do this.
The treatment providers  invoiced  Aviva  after the treatment had taken place. This would be 
the first time Aviva was aware that Mr B had undergone further  treatment following the initial 
Ref: DRN27725202consultation. Aviva didnt receive  its first invoice until 20 September  2017 by which  time Mr B 
had already incurred treatment costs  in excess of his benefit limit.
Aviva settled the invoices  in accordance  with the terms of the policy. It sent Mr B a statement 
of account showing  that he had incurred  a shortfall on 2 October  2017  which  was within  two 
weeks of receiving the initial invoices. I think this was a reasonable time period. Mr B says 
he didnt receive  any statement  of account  until the following month  but Im satisfied from the 
evidence Aviva has provided that the earlier statement of account was sent to him at his 
correct address.
It is unfortunate that Mr B has been left liable for some of the costs of his outpatient 
treatment but Im satisfied  that Aviva has done nothing  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2772520