K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  treated her unfairly when considering  her 
claim for water damage following a leak at her home. Shes unhappy about the amount of 
information she was asked to provide to support her claim  and found this upsetting   and 
with how she was treated  by her claims handler,  and a company that was appointed to 
validate her flooring.
background
Ms B made a claim for storm damage  in March  2018. The claim included water  damage to 
the inside  of her home. UKI appointed  a company  to inspect, and based on the surveyors 
findings the claim was declined.  
In May 2018  Ms B made a further  claim  which is the subject of this complaint. This later 
claim was for water damage following a leak in her kitchen.  Ms B said the leak had been  
discovered in March 2018, before  she had made  the storm claim. UKI again appointed a 
company to inspect  the damage.
UKI identified a number  of concerns.  It noted  that Ms B had previously had claims in 2015 
and in 2016 for water damage, and she was claiming for items that had previously been 
cash settled under these  claims; so it was concerned the items hadnt been repaired or 
replaced. UKI was also of the view that some  of the areas being  claimed  for werent  
consistent with a leak in the kitchen  noting a storm claim  had just been declined. 
UKI asked  Ms B to provide evidence to show that the previously cash  settled items had been 
repaired or replaced. Ms B provided  UKI with invoices for the previous repairs and for most 
of the replaced  items. But she explained  that her parents  had organised her replacement  
washing machine  and they had both since passed  away  and she couldnt find the 
paperwork. She said she had contacted the manufacturer  but it was unable to help.  
UKI noted an anomaly with the numbers on Ms Bs builders invoices, and it also questioned 
why a builder would have been  able to replace some of the items  on the invoices (such as a 
cooker and carpets).  UKI contacted the builder  who explained the invoices were genuine. 
UKI also contacted  the washing machine manufacturer but it was unable to provide any 
information.
Due to its remaining concerns UKI asked Ms B for evidence  to show that she had paid the 
builder who had produced the invoices  and Ms B provided bank statements which  showed  
cash withdrawals. However, due to the amounts and the timing of the withdrawals, UKI was 
concerned that the withdrawals didnt relate to the previous claims. 
UKI informed Ms B that, due to the number  of concerns, it was going  to send someone out to 
go over these with her  it explained  that this would be easier than discussing the matter  on 
the phone  or by email. However, Ms B explained  that she couldnt see anyone face-to-face 
due to her disability. So UKI said it could either  send  a discrepancy letter instead, or Ms B 
could withdraw the claim. Ms B asked for the concerns  to be put to her in a letter. 
In the meantime Ms B contacted our service. She explained to one of our investigators that 
she was unhappy  with how she was being  treated  and the questions  being asked, so our 
investigator set up a complaint. 
Ref: DRN25283342Ms B then responded  to UKIs discrepancy  letter. UKI was satisfied by her response,  so it 
agreed to settle  some  of her claim. However, it explained it was declining some areas 
because it wasnt satisfied  a leak in the kitchen  could  have  caused  the damage.
Whilst our investigator was looking into the complaint that had initially been  brought to us, 
the following  issues also occurred:
UKI instructed a flooring company  to validate  Ms Bs kitchen flooring  but in error the 
inspector also measured the hall, stairs,  and landing (areas UKI werent covering as 
part of the claim).  
The inspector  from the flooring company arrived at Ms Bs home on a pre-arranged 
visit  but her sister  had recently died and despite  these difficult  circumstances the 
visit still went ahead.
Ms B asked for a different claims handler,  and UKI agreed to arrange  a new point of 
contact  but when calling  UKI she was told the same person  was still handling her 
claim.
UKI agreed  for these additional  issues to be considered as part of Ms Bs complaint  and 
after considering everything that had happened, our investigator concluded the complaint 
should be upheld.  She recommended UKI compensate Ms B £250  for the upset that had 
been caused, and gave  the following reasons:
When Ms Bs washing machine was settled during a previous claim,  UKI had seen a 
report confirming the item was beyond economical repair. She considered  it unlikely 
that Ms B would  have kept a non-working washing machine for two years  so she 
didnt think it was reasonable for UKI to ask Ms B to evidence  the item had been  
replaced. She also said that being asked to find information about the washing 
machine was very distressing  for Ms B due to her circumstances   noting her 
additional needs and the loss of her parents.
Ms B had calls with her claims handler that had upset her  including  a time when the 
call was meant to be on hold and she overheard comments being made about her. 
She also didnt receive call backs when she was expecting them.  
The flooring  inspector  incorrectly  led Ms B to believe the hallway, stairs, and landing 
were being covered  under the claim  which Ms B found  very upsetting.
However, our investigator also commented: 
Although UKI said it was unable to appoint a new claims handler, it did arrange  for 
her contact  to be with a different member  of staff  with the inference  that this was 
reasonable.
Ms B could have  asked for the flooring inspectors visit to be rearranged  for another 
day, but she chose for it to go ahead. 
At this stage she isnt considering how the claim is being settled  and Ms B would  
need to liaise with UKI about this matter,  and raise a separate  complaint if she 
remained unhappy.
Ref: DRN25283343Ms B accepted our investigators outcome. However, because UKI disagreed,  the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision. UKI has made the following points:
UKI had tried to appoint a claims inspector to assist Ms B with her claim, but she 
wouldnt allow them  to visit her property;  despite previously letting various  other 
unknown third parties visit her in connection with her claims.
UKI hadnt received a report detailing the damage to the washing machine during the 
previous claims.  Whilst it agreed  that keeping a non-functioning  washing machine for 
two years seemed  unlikely  the discrepancies in Ms Bs story gave concerns that 
required validation.
UKI hasnt previously been made  aware  that Ms B has overheard inappropriate 
comments whilst she was on hold, and it asked  for further details.
There were  occasions  when Ms B called UKI prior to a pre-agreed time, and it wasnt  
in a position to discuss matters with her. However, it couldnt find any record of failed 
call backs; and any time Ms B called when her claims  handler wasnt  available,  a 
return call was made at the earliest  opportunity.
UKIs flooring company was instructed  to validate the kitchen flooring only, and to do 
so based on the information it already held from Ms Bs previous claims  it was told 
not to contact her. There were genuine human errors on the flooring companys 
behalf  and UKI has fed back the impact of this.
Although the hallway,  stairs, and landing  were measured  this didnt confirm UKI 
would be covering this aspect of the claim.
I issued my provisional decision in February 2019.  I explained that I intended to uphold the 
complaint in part and award  Ms B £100 compensation.
In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, Im intending to reach a different outcome to our investigator   Im only 
intending to uphold one aspect of the complaint.
Both parties  have made detailed submissions about  the claim settlement. However, Im not 
considering the proposed settlement here  that matter is due to be considered separately 
by one of our investigators, under a different complaint. The issues Im considering  under  
this complaint are limited  to how Ms B was treated leading up to UKIs decision about the 
claim. 
I understand that dealing with this claim has been  difficult and upsetting for Ms B; and much 
of that was due to the ongoing questions and requests for substantiation. I also understand 
that Ms Bs additional needs; the loss of her parents; and the recent loss of her sister have 
made matters particularly distressing for her  and Im sorry to hear of her difficult 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN25283344However, UKI identified  a number of concerns  and having  carefully  considered the wider 
circumstances  in my view, its concerns were  reasonably held. So although Ms B found 
UKIs questions and requests upsetting (which is clear from UKIs call notes), Im not 
persuaded UKI treated  her unfairly  at any stage.
I have seen that Ms B regularly chased  UKI for updates, and I can appreciate her frustration 
with how her claim was progressing. However,  UKIs  call notes support what it says about 
Ms B calling  before pre-agreed timescales  had expired  and I havent been told anything 
that leads me to believe UKI wouldnt have contacted Ms B within  the agreed timescales if 
she hadnt chased UKI first. Furthermore,  given UKIs concerns and the enquiries  it was 
making, in my view the overall timescale for assessing the claim was reasonable. 
Ms B has told us she overheard her claims handler make upsetting remarks about her. But 
its my understanding that she didnt raise this with UKI at the time  so in view of this, Im 
not persuaded inappropriate  comments were made. However, when Ms B responds to my 
provisional decision, if shes able to tell us when the call took place,  or what the call was 
about, Ill consider  this point further   once UKI has had the opportunity to locate the call 
recording.
So to summarise, I dont  intend  to uphold any of the above complaint points. However, I do 
intend to uphold Ms Bs complaint about  UKIs flooring company giving her the impression 
that her hallway, stairs, and landing would be covered. I accept that this was an honest 
mistake. But nonetheless  given the difficulties  with the claim so far; the breakdown  in 
relationship with Ms B; and her additional needs  (all of which  UKI was aware  of)  Im 
satisfied the mistake,  though unintentional, caused  Ms B upset that could have been 
avoided. I intend  to award Ms B £100 compensation. I consider this amount fairly  
acknowledges the error that occurred, and the impact it had on Ms B due to her 
circumstances.
In response to my provisional decision UKI made  the following points:
The provisional decision is contradictory because  it states  that, although the hallway, 
stairs, and landing were measured  this didnt  confirm UKI would be covering this 
aspect of the claim  but then goes on to award  £100 compensation for the error.
UKI agreed that its appointed  flooring company had visited  Ms B in error, and then 
made a further  error by inspecting  previously  declined areas. 
However, UKI said its instructions to the flooring company were very clear   UKI only 
asked for the kitchen  flooring costs,  and it told the flooring company that Ms B didnt 
need to be contacted  because it could base costings on its previous visits.
The flooring  company  visited Ms B against  UKIs instructions  and it didnt make any 
contact with UKI prior to the visit to clarify what it was required to do. It appears UKIs  
instructions were overlooked and the flooring company attended as normal.
UKI still holds concerns about  what items were replaced and what  works were  
undertaken following the previous cash settlements  under earlier  claims.
UKI hasnt seen any documentary evidence regarding Ms B alleged additional needs, 
and these were only brought to its attention after the claim was being investigated. 
Ref: DRN25283345Ms B responded to my provisional decision by speaking to our investigator. Ive listened to 
that call and Ms B made the following  points:
The provisional decision is one-sided, in favour of UKI  and I havent  listened to her 
side.
When Ms B first made her most recent water damage claim, UKI took video footage  
which showed how the water had damaged upstairs areas; and this evidence has 
been ignored.
In addition to the upstairs areas,  UKIs proposed claim settlement doesnt account  for 
the kitchen work surface, skirting boards, or decorations.
Ms B felt pressurised into allowing the flooring  companys visit to go ahead,  despite  
the death of her sister.  She says she was told the visit would only take ten minutes, 
and if it didnt go ahead  the next appointment wouldnt be for a few months.  Ms B 
says the inspector asked lots of questions  during  the visit about the work that had 
been completed after her previous  claims,  but he was only meant  to be taking 
measurements  so Ms B says UKI took advantage when  she was vulnerable.
Ms B believes its unreasonable for UKI to suggest  the damage relates to previous 
claims that were cash settled. She says she and her husband wouldnt have lived 
with the damage  during the four years between the claims.
Both Ms B and her husband  have been continually ill with chest  infections  due to the 
damage that is yet to be repaired.
Ms B says she made the kitchen  leak claim because she was advised to do so by our 
investigator, after our investigator hadnt upheld  Ms Bs complaint about  her declined 
storm claim. However,  Ms B says she still isnt happy with the outcome of her storm 
claim and she intends  to return to it once this water damage claim is complete.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  including  the additional  
comments made  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions I reached in my provisional decision,  for 
the same  reasons. But Ill respond to the points both parties  have made.
Firstly, UKI says part of my provisional decision is contradictory. However, the sentence that 
UKI has quoted  was taken from the background section of the document, where  I was simply 
setting out the points  UKI had made in response  to our investigators  outcome. The quoted 
sentence represented UKIs position, not mine. So I disagree that my provisional findings  
were contradictory.
I agree  UKIs instructions  were relatively  clear   and its unfortunate they were overlooked. 
But as the flooring company was an agent of UKI, its actions were  UKIs actions, as far as 
the contract  of insurance was concerned. As such, UKI is responsible for the errors the 
flooring company made  irrespective of how clear its own instructions were. 
Ref: DRN25283346Ms B says she was given  the impression that the upstairs areas would be covered as part of 
her claim after these  were measured  by the flooring company, and I accept what  she says.  
As explained in my provisional decision  due to the difficulties with the claim so far; the 
breakdown in relationship between UKI and Ms B; and her additional needs  Im persuaded  
that the misunderstanding caused by the visit had an impact on Ms B; and I consider it fair 
for UKI to compensate  her for the upset she suffered as a result.
UKIs says that it hasnt  seen documentary evidence of Ms Bs additional needs  and these  
werent mentioned  until UKI started  investigating  its concerns. However,  our investigator has 
spoken at length with Ms B, and based  on those conversations  Ive no reason to doubt what 
shes told us about her personal circumstances. In any event, Ms Bs additional needs are 
not my only reason for upholding  this part of her complaint; there are other factors that Ive 
also taken into consideration (which  Ive previously listed).
In respect of UKIs continuing  concerns, thats not really relevant to this complaint. It was for 
UKI to decide whether it was prepared  to accept Ms Bs recent claim, and UKI has decided  
to accept some of the areas and items being  claimed for. This partial settlement  is now the 
subject of a different complaint, which will soon be considered by one of our investigators,  
therefore I wont be commenting further  here.
Likewise, Ms Bs concerns regarding the areas  not currently being covered by UKI and the 
evidence she says is being ignored, are matters that relate to that further complaint. These 
arent issues Ive considered. So Im sorry Ms B felt my provisional decision was one-sided, 
but I have considered all of her points in relation to this complaint  which  was about  how 
Ms B had been  treated  whilst UKI was still considering her claim. 
Im also sorry  to hear that the condition of Ms Bs home is making both her and her husband 
ill. But as explained  in my provisional decision,  given UKIs  concerns and the enquiries it was 
making, Im satisfied the overall timescale  for assessing the claim was reasonable. Ive also 
not been told anything that leads me to believe Ms Bs home was uninhabitable during this 
time  although I appreciate the conditions will have been both inconvenient and 
uncomfortable.
Ms B says that she felt pressurised into the flooring  companys  visit going  ahead  and I do 
accept she felt some pressure to progress  matters, despite her very difficult  circumstances. 
But Im not persuaded she was taken advantage of, or that inappropriate questions  were 
asked. The questions Ms B described to our investigator were, in my view,  reasonable 
questions for someone validating a claim to ask. In any event, Im satisfied £100 fairly 
compensates Ms B for the upset she was caused  by that unnecessary  visit.
In respect of Ms Bs complaint about her declined storm claim,  she can ask for the matter to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman if she doesnt  accept our investigators findings. But if so, 
she needs to let our investigator know so we consider  whether its appropriate for us to 
reopen that complaint after so much time has passed since  it was closed.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
in part. My final decision is U K Insurance Limited  should pay Ms B £100  for the upset  
caused.
Ref: DRN25283347Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2018.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2528334