K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains Vitality Corporate  Services Limited  took too long to investigate  a claim she 
made under a life assurance policy, and then unfairly declined the claim.
background
In 2017 Ms N and her husband Mr N applied for a joint life assurance policy with Vitality,  on 
the advice of an independent financial adviser (IFA). As part of the initial application, Mr N 
said No when asked  if he had heart  disease, any kidney disorder, asthma, depression, 
arthritis, any respiratory or lung disorder, or had undergone investigations for anything.  But 
he did say he had diabetes and ulcerative colitis. So with Mr Ns permission, Vitality sought  
further information about these two conditions.
Vitality sent a nurse to visit Mr N and ask further questions  about his health. Mr N told the 
nurse he had diabetes and provided  a blood  sample, the results of which were given to 
Vitality. And Vitality asked Mr Ns general  practitioner (GP) about his diabetes and 
ulcerative colitis, and also whether there was any evidence of Mr N having a series of other 
diseases which it listed. Against each of these the GP said No, except for ischaemic heart 
disease (IHD)  here the GP said On hypertensives.  Hypertensives are medicines  that 
can be used to treat IHD.
Vitality accepted the policy. It started on 21 June 2017 and included £42,000 of life cover for 
Ms N and Mr N, and Vitality charged them higher premiums to reflect Mr Ns diabetes  and 
ulcerative colitis. 
In 2018 Mr N sadly passed away. In June 2018 Ms N claimed under the life part of the 
policy. Mr Ns death certificate listed his cause of death  as respiratory failure  and 
pneumonia, and lung disease, angina and diabetes. In July 2018 Vitality asked Mr Ns GP 
for copies  of his medical information relating to his causes  of death, for the last five years.  
In August  2018  Ms N asked Vitality  for an update, and it said it was having trouble getting 
the information it needed because Mr Ns GP required either a wet signature  or a power of 
attorney, neither  of which Vitality had. Vitality told Ms N it would instead send the GP a copy  
of Mr Ns will. Ms N offered to help Vitality get this information from the GP, as she had 
power of attorney for Mr N. Vitality said she could  do this but that it would  also send the will. 
The GP took a copy of Ms Ns power of attorney and gave  Vitality  Mr Ns full medical  history  
in September  2018. This showed that before the policy started, Mr N had been diagnosed 
with asthma, arthritis, depressive  disorder, chronic  kidney disease, and IHD.
In October  2018 Ms N complained to our service that Vitality  was taking too long to decide 
her claim, and we passed this to Vitality  for its response. A few days  later Vitality told Ms N 
that Mr N had made a misrepresentation  when  the policy  was taken out, in other words that 
hed not fully told it about his relevant medical history. So it avoided the policy (cancelled it 
as if it had never existed), rejected her claim, and refunded the premiums  she and Mr N had 
paid. And soon after, Vitality gave  Ms N its final response to her complaint.  It said it wouldnt 
have accepted the policy if Mr N hadnt  made  a misrepresentation,  and so there would have  
been no policy to claim from.  It said it hadnt  caused  any unnecessary delays in assessing 
the claim,  but accepted  it hadnt updated  Ms N as it should have. It apologised for this and 
paid her £150 compensation.
Ref: DRN21422262Ms N thought this was unfair and asked  our service to investigate.  She said Vitality had sent 
a nurse  to visit Mr N and asked his GP for information as part of their application. And so it 
should have known his medical history, and shed paid higher premiums  because of it. 
Our investigator talked  to Ms N and Vitality  to understand what had happened  before the 
policy started and when Vitality investigated the claim. Ultimately, our investigator said:
Vitality was correct to ask Mr Ns GP for medical  information after the claim, but it got 
this unfairly because it didnt tell Ms N it was investigating whether Mr N had made a 
misrepresentation. And because  Vitality should  only have accepted the information  it 
had asked for, not Mr Ns full medical  records.
Mr N had taken reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation  by giving Vitality a 
blood sample and permission  to write  to his GP. And that the GPs  report  and blood test 
results were  enough  to put Vitality on notice of Mr Ns ill health  before the policy started, 
as they would have given Vitality  a fuller picture  of his health  had it fully reviewed them   
which it hadnt.
To put things right, Vitality should pay the claim less the premiums  it had repaid, plus 
8% simple interest. And pay Ms N £1,000 compensation for the unnecessary distress  
and inconvenience  it caused her in obtaining medical records on its behalf, how long it 
took to investigate her claim, and then incorrectly declining it. 
Vitality disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  for a fresh 
review. Vitality said that in their policy application and the later nurse visit, neither Ms N or 
her husband  had told Vitality that Mr N had undergone heart surgery  in 2012. And that they 
hadnt told it Mr N had been hospitalised  for respiratory problems only a few days  prior to 
taking the policy,  and was due to have further  investigations for this. Vitality said that if it had 
been aware of Mr Ns full medical history, it wouldnt have offered him cover.
Vitality also said that before the policy started it received the information it needed from 
Mr Ns GP, and so the blood test results  were no longer required since  the GP report 
included wider ranging and more accurate blood  test results. It said the GP report suggested 
that Mr N seemed to be complying with treatment for his conditions and didnt have any 
undisclosed health problems. 
Because Vitality  disagreed, this complaint  was passed to me for a decision. After 
considering the complaint, I let Ms N and Vitality know that I intended to reach a different 
conclusion to the investigator whod previously looked at it. I said Mr N had made a 
misrepresentation when he first applied for the policy, as he hadnt told Vitality about a range 
of conditions which his medical records showed he was either receiving ongoing  treatment 
for or being reviewed for. And he hadnt told Vitality about his admission  to hospital for 
respiratory problems shortly before he applied for the policy.
I said that while Vitality should  have asked  further questions about  IHD after the GP report  
indicated it might be something Mr N had, that didnt take away  Mr Ns responsibility  to 
answer all the application  questions correctly.  Had he done so, Vitality would simply have 
decided not to offer him cover. And I said Vitality hadnt taken  an unreasonably long time to 
decide Ms Ns claim or unfairly obtained  information from Mr Ns GP when considering  it.
Vitality said it had no further comments to make. Ms N provided extensive  comments as well 
as some supporting  evidence, which can be summarised as:
Ive placed  more emphasis on the answers Mr N gave in the initial  application than on 
the mistakes Vitality made.
Ref: DRN21422263Ms N and Mr N answered the application questions  to the best of their ability and had no 
intent to give misleading or inaccurate  answers.
The IFA had said all relevant medical details would be discovered during  checks  Vitality 
carried out before it accepted their application. And Ms N questioned whether the IFA 
had correctly gathered  and passed on information to Vitality.
Vitality should have looked into Mr Ns medical  history. And if it had reviewed the blood  
test results, it would  have  declined  the policy.  
Mr N did not consider himself to be depressed.  And Ms N clarified what  some of Mr Ns 
prescribed medication was for and the effects it had on him.
The policy application  asked if Mr N had been  hospitalised for more than two weeks,  but 
he was only in hospital for ten days just before applying for the policy.  And it asked 
about heart problems  in the last five years,  but Mr Ns heart  problems were  before that. 
So Mr N was correct to answer No.
Ive now gone  on to make my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Ns 
complaint and I realise this will be very disappointing to her. So Ill explain my reasons.
But first, I want  to give my condolences to Ms N and acknowledge the very difficult and 
upsetting time shes had and continues to have.
I also want to explain that while  Ive considered everything both Ms N and Vitality  have said 
and all the evidence  theyve provided,  my decision wont  address each and every point 
theyve made. Instead, it will only address what I see to be the key issues. 
Vitalitys decision to decline the claim
The law that applies here is the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012, known as CIDRA.  CIDRA says that when a customer  like Mr N asks for insurance 
cover, insurers like Vitality have a responsibility to ask clear questions  about the risk theyre 
being asked to cover. And CIDRA says customers like Mr N have a responsibility to take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation when answering those questions. So Ive 
looked at the questions  Vitality asked Mr N in the initial application, as well as the answers  
Mr N gave. And Ive looked at Mr Ns medical  history. Based on these, Im satisfied Mr N 
answered some of Vitalitys questions  incorrectly. 
Mr N did tell Vitality  he had diabetes and ulcerative colitis. But Vitality asked Mr N if:
He had ever had or currently had a heart disease  or disorder.  
Whether in the last five years hed had any kidney disorder; depression; any 
respiratory or lung disorder including asthma; arthritis; or any disease of the skin 
including psoriasis.
Whether in the last two years hed received treatment for a medical condition, illness 
or injury; whether hed undergone investigations  for anything;  or whether there was 
anything hed be seeking medical advice  for, or was awaiting the results  of 
investigations for. 
Ref: DRN21422264I think these questions were clear. And Mr N answered No to them.  But his medical history 
shows this was incorrect because:
Mr N was diagnosed  with ischaemic  heart disease (IHD)  in 2012 and had an 
operation a few months later to treat it. The letter Mr Ns cardiologist sent to his GP 
on 25 January 2017  says Mr N had anaemia  and was being referred for 
investigations about that. The letter also said Mr N had worsening  angina symptoms, 
for which the cardiologist prescribed  medication and arranged further investigations. 
Mr N had been diagnosed with asthma in 2005,  psoriasis and related arthritis  in 
2005, depressive disorder in 2007, and chronic  kidney  disease in 2007. And the 
medical records Ive seen show Mr N was either receiving  ongoing  treatment or being  
reviewed for most these conditions in the five years  before the policy started  in 2017. 
He attended a dermatology clinic in 2015.  He had a diabetic  retinopathy  review  in 
2014 which led the ophthalmologist to raise concerns about treatment for Mr Ns 
reduced kidney  function  with his GP. A letter Mr Ns cardiologist sent to his GP on 
10 July 2013 notes Mr N was using a salbutamol  inhaler,  used to treat asthma. And 
the discharge letter following Mr Ns hospital  stay in April 2017  notes that, amongst 
other medication, Mr N was still using a salbutamol inhaler. 
A couple of weeks before applying for the policy,  Mr N was admitted to hospital for 
respiratory problems and was due to have further investigations for that. 
In particular, Mr Ns heart  and respiratory problems were serious conditions  that hed 
undergone various  investigations and treatments for, some of which were only days before 
he applied  for the policy.  Ms N says Mr N was only in hospital  for ten days and the 
application asked  about being hospitalised for more than two weeks. Ive not seen a 
question worded that particular way in the initial application. But I think  the question Ms N is 
referring to is Apart from anything you have already told us about  in this form, within the last 
2 years have you had any medical condition, illness or injury  that you have received 
treatment for, over a continuous period of 2 weeks or more?. 
I dont think that was the question that should  have prompted Mr N to tell Vitality about  his 
hospital stay for respiratory issues. I think the question that should  have prompted him was 
the one that asked Apart from any condition  you have already told us about, have you had 
any of the following in the last 5 years: Any respiratory or lung disorder, including asthma,  
bronchitis, COPD (COAD), emphysema,  bronchiectasis or sleep apnoea? But Mr N 
answered No and as Ive said, I think that was incorrect  because of Mr Ns hospitalisation 
and planned  investigations for respiratory  issues just before applying  for the policy.  And also 
because hed been diagnosed with asthma in 2005  for which  he was still being prescribed 
salbutamol inhalers in 2013  and 2017.
Ms N also says Mr Ns heart problems were before the five years  the application  questions  
asked about. As Ive said, Mr Ns cardiologist was still prescribing  Mr N medication and 
arranging further  investigations for heart  problems  in January 2017, only a few months  
before Mr N applied  for the policy. So I dont think it would be reasonable to say Mr Ns heart 
problems were resolved  in 2012 when he had an operation  to treat IHD.
Ms N says she and Mr N answered the application questions to the best of their ability  and 
had no intention of giving  inaccurate  or misleading  answers. But given how recent and 
serious some of Mr Ns health  issues were,  I dont think its reasonable to say Mr N might 
Ref: DRN21422265have forgotten  about them or thought they werent  relevant  to the application  questions  he 
was being asked. Therefore, Im satisfied Mr N made a reckless misrepresentation.
This misrepresentation made a difference, as it meant Vitality offered Mr N cover when it 
otherwise wouldnt  have. Vitality says it would have postponed providing cover if it had 
known about any one of the investigations  Mr N was having  for anaemia, angina  and 
respiratory issues in the months before he applied for the policy.  And Ive seen  that its 
underwriting guidelines show it wouldnt have  covered Mr N at all if it had known about the 
full combination of conditions  he had.
Under CIDRA, where  there  has been a reckless misrepresentation, an insurer is entitled to 
cancel the policy from inception. So, overall, I dont  think Vitalitys  decision to decline the 
claim and cancel the policy from inception was unfair. Nevertheless,  Ive considered the 
issues Ms N raised in response  to my earlier contact  when I set out my provisional thoughts 
on her complaint. 
Mr N did tell Vitality  he had diabetes and ulcerative colitis, so it asked further questions 
about this by sending a nurse to visit him and asking his GP for a report. The report asked 
the GP some specific questions. One of these was whether Mr N had any evidence of a 
range of other diseases, which it listed. To most  of these the GP answered No. But against 
IHD the GP didnt answer yes or no, only saying  On hypertensives. So when asked a 
question specifically about IHD, the GP said Mr N was on medication. From this I think  it 
would have been reasonable to conclude that Mr N might  have IHD, since when asked about 
this specific condition the GP replied that he was taking  medication. This wasnt  something 
Mr N had told Vitality  in his application.
I think this part of the GP report should  have alerted Vitality to the possibility that it might  
need to ask either Mr N or his GP further questions  about IHD before  agreeing  to provide  
cover. But Vitality didnt  ask any further questions, and I think  this was a mistake on its part. 
Instead, it decided  the GP report gave it all the information it required, including blood test 
results which  it considered to be more  accurate  than the nurse blood test results due to the 
longer fasting period the GP would have required of Mr N. 
I know Ms N feels Ive placed more emphasis on the answers Mr N gave  in the initial  
application than on Vitalitys mistakes. But Vitalitys mistake came  later,  and doesnt lessen 
the responsibility Mr N had to answer  Vitalitys initial questions correctly. I cant  ignore that 
many of those questions were answered  incorrectly - as Ive already said, I think  Mr N 
significantly misrepresented his medical history  when he first applied  for the policy.  
Ms N says the IFA told her and Mr N that Vitality would obtain medical reports  that would 
show up anything relevant. And that Vitality should  have looked  into Mr Ns medical history 
and that if it had reviewed  the blood  test results,  it would have declined the policy.  But 
Vitality was entitled to rely on what Mr N told it in the initial  application. If Mr N had answered 
all the initial  application  questions correctly, Vitality would simply at that point have decided 
not to cover  him and so it wouldnt have asked  for any further medical information at all  not 
through a nurse visit or a GP report. But the answers Mr N in fact gave meant Vitality 
thought it only needed further  medical  information  about his diabetes  and ulcerative colitis. 
And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Vitality to ask further  questions  or get medical  
reports about things  Mr N had already  said he didnt  have. 
Ref: DRN21422266As Ive said,  I think Mr N made a misrepresentation when he applied for the policy so I dont 
think its unreasonable of Vitality  to decline Ms Ns claim on that basis.  Therefore, Im not 
intending to ask it to do anything further.  
But I note Ms N has suggested the IFA may have acted incorrectly  when she and Mr N 
applied for the policy. The IFA was a separate business to Vitality,  so I cant hold Vitality 
responsible for what the IFA might or might not have done.  If Ms N is unhappy  with the IFA, 
then she could complain  to it. And if shes unhappy  with its response she could  refer her 
complaint to our service. 
claim delays
Vitality received Ms Ns claim in June 2018  and gave  her its decision about that in 
October 2018. So the claim process took about four months in total.  Ive seen that for about  
two of those months,  Vitality was actively trying to get information from Mr Ns GP regarding 
his causes of death.  So Im satisfied Vitality didnt take an unreasonably long time to decide 
the claim or cause any significant unnecessary delays. 
But Vitality  itself says it didnt update Ms N as it should have,  and its records do suggest  
there were times it didnt update her. I think the £150 Vitality has already offered for this is 
fair and reasonable compensation. I understand Vitality has already paid this.
how Vitality obtained  information from Mr Ns GP
In August  2018  Ms N asked Vitality  for an update on her claim. Its contact notes suggest it 
said it was having  trouble  getting the information  it needed from Mr Ns GP, as the GP 
needed either a wet signature from Mr N or a power  of attorney - neither of which Vitality 
had. Vitality told Ms N it would send the GP a copy of Mr Ns will instead. The contact notes  
suggest Ms N offered  to help Vitality  get information  from the GP using her power of 
attorney, and that Vitality told her she could do this but that it would  also send the will.
Understandably, Ms N wanted Vitality to consider her claim as soon as possible. And it 
seems that to move things along, she offered to help Vitality - it wasnt something  Vitality 
asked her to do. Indeed, the contact notes suggest  Vitality left it up to her to decide whether 
to use her power of attorney with the GP, while it carried  on trying  with the information it had 
in the form of Mr Ns will. Therefore, I cant say Vitality acted unfairly or unreasonably in how 
it obtained information from Mr Ns GP.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2142226