K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2002. Mr S says NRAM Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much  information  available about  the sale. Mr S says PPI wasnt  mentioned  
and must  have been added automatically, but he hasnt given us much  detail  about  what  did 
happen at the sale. And NRAM hasnt been  able to send us any evidence  from the sale 
showing Mr S chose  to take the PPI. Due to the amount of time that has passed  since the 
sale though, I dont think this is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that NRAM added the PPI without Mr Ss knowledge 
or consent. So I think its likely NRAM made  it clear  to him that he had a choice about the 
PPI, and that he chose  to take it knowing he didnt have to.
NRAM didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide if the PPI was right for 
him.
Its possible the information NRAM gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it looks like the PPI 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong.
Mr S has said he was the director of his own company at the time of the sale. But the policy 
would still have provided cover for him, and wouldnt have made  it significantly more  difficult  
for him to claim as a result of him being  a director.
Mr S has also said he wouldve received sick pay indefinitely if hes been  off work and that 
he had significant  savings he couldve used to make  his repayments if he wasnt  earning.  
But Ive not seen evidence that Mr S was contractually entitled to indefinite sick pay. And I 
think its likely his company wouldve suffered  if it was paying him his full salary but he wasnt 
working for a long period  of time.  So it may not have been able to pay him sick pay 
indefinitely.
The PPI couldve covered his repayments  for up to 12 months and wouldve paid out in 
addition to any sick pay he received. It would also have meant  he wouldnt need to rely on 
his savings if he wasnt earning. So I still think it would have been  useful for him.
A mortgage is also a serious financial commitment, and Mr Ss property couldve been  at risk 
if hed failed to make his repayments. So I think he couldve  found the protection the PPI 
Ref: DRN22756362offered appealing. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mr S off taking it out.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr S paid on his PPI  and whether NRAM treated 
him unfairly.
NRAM has told us that the commission for Mr Ss PPI was less than half of what he paid for 
each premium. Weve looked at how NRAM has been working  this out and based  on what  
weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ss commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell him about the commission   so I dont think 
NRAM treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr S back any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2275636