K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that MYJAR Limited (Myjar)  acted irresponsibly  when it gave him 
unaffordable loans.
background
This complaint is about seven loans Myjar provided  to Mr J between August 2015 and 
June 2017. 
Mr J took out loans that were due to be paid by way of 1, 3, or 6 monthly instalments. They  
have now all been repaid. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
Loan Date  Taken Date RepaidMonthly
InstalmentsAmountHighest  Monthly
Repayment
1 04/08/2015 30/10/2015 3 £575.00 £285.98
2 30/10/2015 31/05/2016 6 £650.00 £195.06
3 14/06/2016 31/08/2016 3 £275.00 £147.72
4 09/09/2016 30/09/2016 1 £100.00 £116.80
5 06/10/2016 30/12/2016 3 £350.00 £168.56
6 15/03/2017 30/06/2017 3 £300.00 £165.73
7 30/06/2017 30/04/2018 6 £1,000.00 £300.41
Mr J said that he was in a debt spiral leading to repeat borrowing and that the loans werent 
affordable for him. He says that Myjar didnt do proper checks  and these loans made his 
already poor financial situation worse.
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that loans 5 to 7 shouldnt  have 
been lent to him. He recommended  steps that Myjar should take to put things right for Mr J. 
Myjar disagreed with our adjudicator and said it wasnt certain that our adjudicator  had 
looked at everything  and he hadnt  explained  how hed come to his view. Mainly  Myjar said 
that Mr Js declared income  and expenditure and his repayment  history,  plus the checks it 
did, supported its view that all the loans were  suitably provided. 
This complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN29423742Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr J could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Myjar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers  income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to 
meet a higher repayment  from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Mr J could  sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had enough  information to be able to say that loans 1 through  
to 4 shouldnt  have been provided. On balance, I agree  with our adjudicator.
It appears that Mr J paid loan 2 a month  or so later than the original due date. Myjar has 
explained that Mr J called  to say this was due to an unexpected  bill and he asked to repay the 
following month. Myjar says it agreed  as there  was no reason to suspect that Mr J was 
experiencing financial difficulties. I dont think that was an unreasonable  view to take  it appears 
that Mr J took the initiative  in contacting Myjar to explain his circumstances  and what he said was 
plausible. And I agree  that this didnt  reasonably  lead to the conclusion that he was having 
serious money problems  generally  he just needed  some extra  time to pay  which  he then did. 
Ive also taken into account that loan 3 was for an amount that was quite a lot smaller  than 
loan 2 (and when  he took out loan 4, this was for less money again  these were the 
smallest amounts that Mr J borrowed from Myjar).  
Ref: DRN29423743So I dont  think Ive seen  enough fairly to say that Myjar  acted unfairly  when it provided loans 
1 - 4 to Mr J and that it shouldnt have lent these. 
But I think that by loan 5, its reasonable to say that Myjar should have realised that Mr J 
wasnt managing  to repay his borrowing in a sustainable way. I say this because  Myjar could 
see that:
looking  back at his borrowing history, there were indications that Mr J had struggled to 
repay some previous  loans. Hed taken out loan 2 the same day he repaid loan 1. Loan 
2 was paid late when he found  his finances stretched by having to pay an unexpected 
bill. Loan 3 was taken out just 14 days after hed paid loan 2 - and by the time he took 
out loan 4, barely a week after paying loan 3, Myjar had noted that his other credit 
repayments had by then increased  so I dont  regard the fact that loans 3 and 4 were  
for smaller and reducing amounts as an indication that he was becoming  less reliant on 
this sort of credit  overall 
loan 5 was a jump  up in terms of borrowing compared to loan 4 (more than three times 
the amount)  and Mr J took loan 5 out less than a week after hed paid loan 4
all this suggests  that Mr J wasnt really using these loans to provide  a short  term fix - by 
the time he took out loan 5 hed been borrowing from Myjar for around 14 months
and it was likely  Mr J had to borrow again  each time because he was facing money  
problems after repaying the previous loan.  
In these circumstances, I think there  was a significant risk Mr J wouldve been unable  to 
sustainably meet his monthly repayments  for loan 5  and any subsequent loans.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Myjars lending history with Mr J, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Myjar should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Myjar  should have realised that it shouldnt  
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Js case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 7. Here are my reasons for saying this:
Mr J had by now been borrowing from Myjar for 22 months already   without any 
significant breaks in lending  (Myjar  has mentioned that there was a 75 days  gap 
between loans  5  6, but I dont think that seems long enough for Myjar reasonably to 
think that Mr J mightve put his finances  in order during  this period)
and that borrow-repay pattern continued with loan 7, which  Mr J arranged to start the 
same time as he paid loan 6
whilst  the loan amounts had been  variable, by loan 7 it was evident  that Mr J wasnt 
making any real inroads into the amount he owed. This was the biggest loan hed 
borrowed  very nearly twice as much as hed borrowed when he took out loan 1. So a 
pattern of dependency  was apparent in respect  of his borrowing
at this point, Myjar ought  to have known that Mr J was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in income but to meet an ongoing  (and growing) need for credit 
Ref: DRN29423744Mr Js indebtedness was increasing unsustainably
this is borne out by the fact that Mr J paid loan 7 late - around 4 months after the date 
hed agreed to pay this loan when  he took it out (and only after Myjar sold the debt on to 
a debt collection  agency.)
I think that Mr J lost out when Myjar provided loan 7 because this loan had the effect  of 
unfairly prolonging Mr Js indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive  credit over an 
extended period  of time. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 5, 6 and 7 and Myjar should put things right.
putting things right  what Myjar needs to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr J paid on loans  5, 6 and 7
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative  information about  loans 5 and 6 from Mr Js credit file
the number of loans  taken by loan 7 means  any information recorded  about it is 
adverse. So all entries about loan 7 should be removed from Mr Js credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Js complaint about loans 5, 6 and 7. 
MYJAR Limited (Myjar) should pay Mr J as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2942374