K820x#14complaint
Mr H1 through his representative Mr H2 complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as 
Halifax (Halifax) didnt  act fairly  or reasonably when appointing  a valuer to survey his 
property as part of the mortgage application. He wants an apology  and compensation.
background
Mr H1 bought  a property in 2017  with the aid of a mortgage from Halifax.  As part of the 
process, Halifax got a professional valuer  to survey the property and the report  was given to 
Mr H1. The valuer said that the property needed repair,  but the work wasnt  serious  or 
urgent. The day after moving in, Mr H1 said that hed had to move out as the property had 
serious and major defects  such as exposed electricity cables, damp, a leaking roof, 
crumbling plaster and defective drainage. Mr H1 said that the property needed major repairs  
to be safely occupied and he wouldnt  have bought  it if hed known the true position.
Mr H1 complained to both the valuers  and Halifax. The valuers rejected his complaint.  Mr H1 
said that Halifax shouldve  advised  him about the appropriate type of survey for his property 
and should be responsible for the actions of the valuer as Mr H1 said he wasnt competent  
and the valuer  didnt  comply with the rules of its professional body when dealing with his 
complaint.
Halifax said that its staff werent qualified to give advice about surveys, and simply set out 
the options available to consumers. Mr H1 chose originally a mortgage valuation  and then 
upgraded to a survey and valuation. Halifax said this showed that Mr H1 had thought  about  
the type of survey he wanted and made an informed decision. It also pointed out that the 
survey carried  out on Mr H1s behalf and he formed a contract directly with the valuer.
Mr H2 complained to us. Halifax noted that it didnt  receive a copy of the report  (only the 
valuation), and said that it thought that Mr H1s level of knowledge was above that of an 
average first time buyer due to his decision not to proceed with one property after valuation 
and his comments about valuations. 
The adjudicators view was that Halifax wasnt at fault. He said that Halifax  appointed a 
professionally qualified valuer, but wasnt responsible for their actions. The adjudicator  also 
said that bank  staff werent qualified to advise about mortgage valuations  and it wasnt  a 
service lenders were  required to provide.  He thought  that the evidence showed that Mr H1 
made an informed choice about  the type of survey he required.
Mr H2 disagreed. He said Mr H1 believed Halifax would get a copy  of the survey,  as well as 
the valuation,  and felt Halifax shouldve been  more interested  in the condition of the 
property. Mr H2 also felt that Halifax knew more than Mr H1 about mortgages and surveys, 
and had a duty of care to give wider advice  than just about the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN25139312Lenders when  advising  consumers about  mortgages  are only required to give advice about  
the mortgage itself,  not wider financial issues connected to the transaction.  The courts  have 
been clear that lenders do not owe consumers a duty to give them advice about an 
investment as Mr H2 suggests.  In short, lenders arent required to advise consumers about 
surveys, or insist that a particular type of survey is carried out (as lenders are able to use 
their commercial judgement). And lenders dont get a copy of the survey   only the valuation.
When dealing with mortgage applications,  all a lender is interested in is whether the property 
is good security and likely to raise enough to pay the mortgage in full if sold. And lenders are 
able to rely on the opinion  of a qualified valuer in deciding whether to proceed; the fact that 
the valuer might be wrong is irrelevant in terms of the responsibility  of the lender. The same  
applies as to whether  the valuer  complies with the complaints policy set out by its regulator  
that isnt a matter  for which a lender is responsible. If Mr H1 and Mr H2 believe  that the 
valuer has been negligent,  Mr H1 is able to take the matter to court.
In Mr H1s case, Halifax  set out the options  available in terms of a survey. I can see Mr H1 
changed his mind, which suggests  he made an informed decision. Further,  I note Mr H1 
works in a field where knowledge about property is generally expected and he pulled out of a 
previous purchase  due to the survey. All that its fair and reasonable to expect Halifax to do 
is to tell Mr H1 the options and let him make the choice, which is what  happened. Halifax 
then instructed qualified valuers to get on with the survey and valuation, which again is fair 
and reasonable,  but it isnt responsible for the actions of those valuers.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H1 to accept  or reject my decision before 
18 March 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2513931