K821x#15complaint
Mrs M has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited has 
unreasonably refused  to pay her claims under her pet policy.
background
Red Sands  said it would pay Mrs Ms claims because she didnt make her claims within 90 
days of the treatment occurring for her dog. 
Mrs M said this 90-day limit was never  brought to her attention so she thinks Red Sands 
refusal is unfair. 
As Red Sands wouldnt consider her claim,  Mrs M bought  it to us.
The investigator was of the view that although Mrs M didnt make  her claims strictly within  
this time limit, it hadnt  prejudiced Red Sands. So on a fair and reasonable basis,  he felt Red 
Sands should  pay Mrs Ms claim. He also thought Red Sands should pay Mrs M £100 
compensation.
Red Sands  agreed  but felt it wasnt fair it was asked to pay Mrs M £100 compensation. So 
its for this reason  Mrs Ms complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why. 
Whilst Red Sands said it had agreed to pay Mrs Ms claim, our last contact with Mrs M 
showed this hadnt been done. On the basis Red Sands clearly agreed to pay her claims,  I 
now expect it has done so. If Red Sands hasnt, it should now pay those claims adding  
interest of 8% simple  from the date Mrs M paid those  fees (assuming she has) to the date it 
refunds her. 
The reason  for this is because, as the investigator explained Red Sands  hasnt  shown it was 
clearly prejudiced by the delay by Mrs M in presenting her claims, irrespective of the fact that 
I also agree  the 90 day limit was stated in the policy documents  which  Mrs M received..  
Therefore, I consider  its fair and reasonable it should now pay those claims.
Turning now to Red Sands issue about the payment of compensation of £100 to Mrs M, I 
consider compensation is payable. This is because Red Sands put Mrs M to some  
considerable distress  and upset in not paying  her claim when its clear it ought to have been  
more pragmatic in considering it. More so as it agreed with the investigator that it should 
have paid her claim due to the lack of prejudice, Mrs Ms delay caused  it.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do the following:
Ref: DRN23039102Pay Mrs Ms claims if it hasnt already. Adding interest of 8% simple per year from 
the date Mrs M showed she paid her vet to the date it refunds her. If income tax is to 
be deducted from the interest,  appropriate  documentation should be provided to Mrs 
M for HMRC purposes.
Pay Mrs M £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2303910