K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited  (Aviva) completed the transfer of his 
pension to another provider but failed to provide him with the important  information  indicated 
in the confirmation letter. He asserts this amounts  to legal negligence and he seeks  redress  
for the trouble and upset  caused.
background
Aviva received a request  to transfer Mr Cs pension to another  pension provider on 16 
January 2018.  They  confirmed the transfer  of £32,880.18 in a letter  dated  22 January 2018.
On 1 June 2018, Aviva  received a complaint  from Mr C by e-mail. In it, he said the transfer 
confirmation letter referred to an Important Information page that wasnt included. He asked 
them to send the missing information and also asked that a senior  person review  his entire 
transaction and confirms  to him that everything was in order and all service standards had 
been met. Mr C said he had received poor customer service  in the past and had little faith in 
Avivas process and procedures.
Aviva reviewed Mr Cs transfer and the confirmation  letter it had sent. It explained  the 
paragraph in the letter pertaining to Important Information had been included  in error. It 
said the wording  was only relevant for overseas transfers and as this didnt apply in Mr Cs 
case, it didnt  affect his transfer. It went on to say the system error had only affected the 
wording within the letter and not the transfer itself,  which it confirmed had been  carried out 
correctly and in accordance  with the instructions received. Aviva apologised and offered 
£100 for any trouble and upset this matter had caused.
Mr C remained  dissatisfied and so referred his complaint  to this service. 
Our investigator carefully  reviewed all the information available  and could see Aviva had 
made an error. He concluded this was due to a system error, which resulted in some  
incorrect wording within the transfer  confirmation  letter sent to Mr C. He was satisfied this 
hadnt affected the transfer itself and that the additional  information  omitted  in error had no 
relevance in Mr Cs case. He acknowledged  Aviva had apologised and offered £100 in 
recognition of the trouble  and upset this matter had caused. In his view,  Aviva had taken fair 
and reasonable steps to correct their error  and so he didnt ask them  to do anything  further.
Mr C disagreed. He doesnt feel £100  is sufficient compensation. He wants Aviva  to pay 
compensation commensurate with legal negligence to include time and inconvenience. He 
asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice. Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
At the outset, I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  I understand Mr C has 
pointed to what he considers legal negligence  on Avivas  part. My remit doesnt extend to 
making any finding in this regard, as our investigator has previously  explained in his view. 
Ref: DRN24172302This service also isnt intended to regulate or punish businesses  for their conduct  that is 
the role of the Financial Conduct  Authority.  Instead,  this service looks  to resolve individual  
complaints between a consumer  and a business.  Should we decide that something has gone 
wrong we would ask the business  to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is 
possible, in the position they would have  been  if the problem hadnt occurred.
Theres no dispute here that Aviva made  an error and the wording within  their pension 
transfer confirmation letter indicated there was some Important Information that should 
have been enclosed within the letter that had been  omitted. My role is to look at the impact 
this had on Mr C and whether Aviva  have been fair and reasonable in the steps they have 
taken to correct their error.
I also understand from the information  available and the comments Mr C has made that he 
has found it necessary  to make a number of complaints in the past with regard to poor 
customer service.  Its understandable  then, Mr C feels he has been let down before and I 
can understand his concern in trying  to ensure there  have been no errors  with regard to his 
pensions transfer.  
Aviva have explained the additional wording within Mr Cs confirmation letter  was due to a 
system error. It was only relevant to overseas  transfers  and this didnt apply to Mr Cs 
pension transfer.  Aviva have also confirmed they have checked  the unit prices and 
calculation of Mr Cs pension transfer  and have found this to be correct.
Ive looked at the information Aviva have  provided  to this service  and Im satisfied from what 
Ive seen Avivas error was a system failure,  which is regrettable, but does happen. It has 
investigated and identified the cause  of the error and put a fix in place so this doesnt 
happen again. I can also see from the information  provided Aviva have checked the pension 
transfer calculation  and found  it to be in order so Im satisfied Avivas error  hasnt caused Mr 
C to be financially disadvantaged.
I appreciate Mr C had cause to question what the important information page contained and 
I understand his concern about  any impact this could have had on his positions.  But, Im 
satisfied Aviva have given a full explanation  of the matter to both Mr C and this service.  
Aviva have acknowledged their error and apologised for any trouble and upset  this matter 
has caused and offered  £100 in recognition of this. Im persuaded  the action Aviva has taken 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and so Im not going to ask 
them to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2417230