K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about two fraudulent transactions made on his HSBC UK Bank Plc current  
account, and HSBCs  conduct relating to the fraud.
background
Mr M says that on 15 March 2018 he attended  a job interview for company B. At this 
interview he provided personal  documentation which included identification documents as 
well as a bank statement. Mr M says on 16 March he became aware  of two transactions on 
his account that he didnt  recognise for £3,000  and £1,700, so he got in touch with HSBC. 
During his call with HSBC, Mr M was told that both transactions  were  completed on            
15 March through  telephone banking. HSBC also suggested that the amount of personal  
documentation hed been asked to provide to company B was suspicious. HSBC told Mr M 
they would  need to review the phone calls when the transfers were  made  and would be in 
touch if they had any concerns or werent going  to refund the two transactions.
Following their investigation HSBC identified that on the evening of 14 March 2018  someone 
called them via telephone banking and asked  to make a payment from Mr Ms account for 
£3,000. They say the person passed  their security checks and the payment was set up, but 
that due to it being requested after the cut-off time the payment wasnt  processed until the 
following day 15 March 2018.  They  say that on the 15 March  2018  someone used their 
automated telephone banking service to make  another  payment from Mr Ms account to the 
same payee  as the previous day this time for £1,700. They  agreed that the transactions  
werent completed by Mr M and refunded the £4,700 to his account  on 20 March 2018. 
Following his call with HSBC, Mr M got in touch with company B saying that the personal 
information hed given them had been used  to carry out fraud  on his account.  Company B 
responded saying that the information  they were  given  was not sufficient to allow  someone  
to commit fraud on his account. And they referred  him back  to HSBC  if he had any 
questions.
Mr M got in touch with HSBC and raised a complaint, saying he felt company Bs response 
conflicted with what hed been  told by HSBC. He explained he was unhappy  that HSBC  
didnt prevent these  transactions  from happening  in the first place  and questioning how 
someone couldve got enough of his personal information to carry out the fraud if the 
information he provided to company B wasnt compromised. Also asking  what investigation 
had been undertaken  by HSBC, and whether  HSBC  was in collusion with company B.
HSBC looked  into Mr Ms concerns and replied saying:
the payments  werent picked up by their system  as fraudulent, so werent stopped  
from going through
the payment  instructions were  received  on 14 March, but were  released the following 
day due to being received after the daily cut off time
there is no way for them to determine how a fraudster got Mr Ms personal 
information
HSBC also provided  Mr M with some suggestions on how to protect himself going  forward.
Ref: DRN22930572Mr M replied to HSBC saying he wasnt happy with their response and asking for 
compensation for the distress  hed experienced.
HSBC replied offering  Mr M £50 in recognition of the calls hed had to make and any 
inconvenience hed experienced as a result. Mr M got in contact with HSBC  again, saying 
that he didnt feel the £50 was adequate.  He referred to a cancelled family trip and being  
unable to pay money to someone as promised, due to not having available funds  in his 
account.
HSBC relooked at Mr Ms concerns and issued their final response on the matter. They 
acknowledged that Mr M was told he would receive  a call, which didnt happen  and 
apologised for this. They also said they felt Mr M had spent an excessive amount of time on 
the phone  with them trying to get through to the correct team, and that he was given 
misleading information about how his personal details mayve been compromised. They said 
theyd offered to increase Mr Ms overdraft  to prevent any payments being declined or 
reversed, but the offer was declined  by Mr M. But due to the lack of service they credited    
Mr Ms account with a further £200  compensation. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with HSBCs  response, so he brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained that our 
role wasnt  to investigate  Mr Ms concerns about  company  B, or to identify who made  the 
disputed transactions.  They felt that most of the distress and inconvenience Mr M was 
caused was due to the fraudulent third party making the payments, not due to HSBCs 
actions. The investigator  said they couldnt see any indication  of collusion between HSBC  
and company B, and they felt the £250 was fair compensation in recognition of the poor 
service hed received.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying that he felt the fraud was committed  
by company B and that HSBC helped cover this up. Mr M asked for £5,000 in resolution of 
his complaint and for the answer to be reviewed  by an ombudsman, so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has asked  us to investigate the fraud  and bring the fraudsters to justice, saying that 
company B failed  to keep his personal information  secure and that he believes HSBC  has 
covered up the fraud. 
Its worth  noting that my role isnt to look into company B or their actions, or to identify who 
committed the fraud on Mr Ms account. An investigation into who committed  the fraud  is a 
matter better handled by law enforcement. And if Mr M is concerned about a breach of his 
personal data by company B he may want to speak  to the Information  Commissioners Office 
(ICO).  
What I have considered  is whether something went wrong, and what  if anything I think 
HSBC should  do to put matters right in the circumstances. 
There is no dispute that the two transactions werent  completed  by Mr M, and that theyve 
been fully refunded by HSBC  which is what I wouldve  expected to happen in this case.
Ref: DRN22930573Based on the evidence  HSBC has given, it appears  that the first transfer was done by 
telephone banking on 14 March 2018 at 19:06. Having listened to the call made by the 
fraudster to set up the payment, he was told that the transfer wouldnt go through  the same  
day and was advised that it would  be processed  on 15 March  due to being received after the 
cut off time.  Based on this it seems  unlikely that the fraudster obtained Mr Ms personal 
information from documentation he provided  on the 15 March 2018  to company B. 
There are many ways that fraudsters  can obtain personal information, and theyre becoming 
more sophisticated  in the methods they use. I appreciate  that Mr M wants a definitive  answer  
as to how his personal information was breached, but Im not going  to be able to answer  that 
question for him.
But I havent seen  anything that suggests that HSBC have provided us with incorrect 
information or changed evidence with regards to how and when the first payment was made.  
I think its highly possible that the person Mr M initially spoke to at HSBC simply looked at 
the transaction date of the funds   rather than checking their internal systems to see 
exactly how and when  the transaction was requested. Because of this, they gave Mr M 
incorrect information about when the fraudster got in touch to make the first transaction. I 
dont think this is the level of service  Mr M shouldve expected  from HSBC.
I understand that this whole situation has been very upsetting for Mr M. But I think  that most 
of his distress is due to someone accessing his personal information   and Mr M not 
knowing how and when  this happened.  
I can see that HSBC refunded the disputed funds  within two working  days  of being notified  of 
the fraud,  which is what Id expect.  And I cant fairly hold HSBC liable for the distress  that 
was caused by a fraudster who accessed Mr Ms account. In the circumstances I think the 
£250 that HSBC has already paid to Mr M is a fair award considering he was given incorrect  
information  which I think added to his confusion  and distress. 
I realise that Mr M is likely to be disappointed, but I wont be asking HSBC to do anything  
further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2293057