K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd rejected a claim on a business  
protection insurance policy.
background
Mrs L runs a business that provides  beauty treatments. She has had insurance for the 
business, including cover for public liability, for a number of years. This complaint concerns 
China Taipings decision to refuse  a claim on the policy. She is being supported in bringing 
this complaint by her husband, Mr C. 
In December 2017, a customer was injured  during a procedure.  In March 2018,  Mrs L 
received notification from the customers  solicitors that she was pursuing a personal  injury 
claim. So Mrs L made a claim on her public liability insurance. 
China Taiping declined the claim,  saying  she wasnt covered  for this type of treatment. Mrs L 
said this was unfair and complained but China Taiping didnt change  its decision.
Our investigator thought China Taiping was entitled  to refuse the claim.  She said the public 
liability section of the policy only covered claims for accidental damage.  This was a claim 
relating to alleged negligent treatment, so it wouldnt be covered  under that section. Although 
Mrs Ls policy included an optional extra section to cover treatment risks, that only covered 
the specific treatments  listed  in the policy. The treatment in question wasnt included in the 
list, so the investigator  said it wasnt covered.
Mrs L disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. Mr C has made  some  further  
comments on her behalf. In summary, he says:
The policy schedule and statement of facts  confirm  that "Treatment Risks" were 
covered. The injury was sustained  during treatment. The documents didnt give a 
definition for treatment risk.
The definition of treatment risks is only set out on the actual policy  wording  on page 
83 of a 103 page  policy document  which  Mrs L never actually received. It wasnt  
given any prominence  or drawn  to her attention.
A reasonable person  would consider that the treatments  they actually undertook 
were covered. Treatment Risks (without express  definition  or limitation)  were 
covered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
China Taiping considered the claim under the public liability  section  of the policy. This 
section covers Mrs L for claims against  her business by members of the public, including for 
example if a customer has an accident  in her premises  and is injured or their property is 
damaged.  
But this section has an exclusion that says theres  no cover  for something arising from or 
caused by any professional negligence  or poor treatment. In this case, Mrs Ls customer was 
Ref: DRN27238352making a claim for personal injury as a result of a treatment being  carried out. So it wouldnt 
be covered by this section.
But Mrs L took out the optional extensions for treatment  risks,  so the claim would potentially  
be covered. But the policy  document says the cover only applies to the specific treatments 
that are listed. So this claim would only be covered if it arose from one of these treatments. 
And the claim arises  from a type of treatment that isnt listed on the policy. So it isnt 
covered.
Mr C says the policy schedule doesnt define Treatment Risks  it was only defined on 
page 83 of the policy  terms, which Mrs L never actually  received. As treatment risks were  
covered, he says a reasonable  person would consider  that the treatments they actually 
undertook were covered. 
The policy schedule doesnt define the treatment  risks that are covered. But it does refer to 
the policy document. Although the relevant section is on page 83 of that document, theres 
an index at the front which says which sections she has and gives  the relevant page 
numbers. Mrs L only took one of the optional extras. Its not difficult to go to the relevant 
section and see whats covered.
On this basis, I think its clear that this type of claim  isnt covered. And so it was reasonable 
for China Taiping to reject the claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2723835