K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers  Motor Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr B under  a conditional  sale agreement with Close  Brothers 
that he electronically signed in January 2017.  The car was about three years old and had 
been driven for 71,278  miles. Mr B had issues with the cars clutch  between July 2017 and 
February 2018 when  he paid £468  for the clutch to be replaced. He complained to 
Close Brothers about the clutch  in July and September 2017 but didnt pursue that 
complaint. The cars  engine failed in July 2018 and an inspection found coolant in the 
engine. The cars mileage at that time was 83,167  miles.  
Mr B complained to Close Brothers and to the manufacturer. The manufacturer offered to 
pay for the repair costs  in October 2018.  But Mr B didnt accept its offer and said that he 
wanted to reject the car so he complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that it was 
clear from the evidence provided  that there was a fault with the car that made  it of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the point of supply and that Close Brothers  was responsible  for that. 
She also said that the car hadnt  been repaired. She thought that Close Brothers  should  
allow Mr B to reject the car. So she recommended that it should:  collect  the car; end the 
finance agreement; refund Mr Bs deposit and any monthly payments made since the engine  
failed in July 2018 (all with interest); remove  any adverse information from his credit file; and 
pay him £200  for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Close Brothers has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that Mr B has no rights to legally enforce a repair  and theres no evidence  to show 
that the fault was developing at the point of sale. It says that the engine  failed 18 months 
later which suggests that it was fully functioning  until that point. And it says the dealer has 
never repaired the car and that Mr B has no right to reject the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Close Brothers, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors,  including the age and mileage 
of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr B was about 
three years old, had been driven for 71,278 miles and had a price  of £6,991. Satisfactory 
quality also covers durability - which means  that the components within  the car must be 
durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend 
on a number of factors. 
The car was supplied to Mr B in January 2017  and he complained  to Close  Brothers about 
issues with the cars  clutch  in July 2017   just over six months later. Close  Brothers didnt 
uphold his complaint and its account notes show that Mr B had said that it would be hard for 
him to prove that the issue was present when the car was supplied and that hed leave the 
Ref: DRN23685362matter there. He had further issues with the cars  clutch  in September  2017 so he again  
complained to Close Brothers and its account  notes  show that no evidence of a fault was 
received from Mr B. 
Its clear that there has been a fault with the cars  clutch and Mr B paid £468 for clutch 
repairs in February 2018. But he didnt complain  to Close Brothers  about  an issue  with the 
clutch until more than six months after the car was supplied to him. And Im not persuaded 
that hes provided enough evidence  to show that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to him because  of any issues with its clutch. So Im not persuaded that it would 
be fair or reasonable  for me to require Close Brothers to reimburse Mr B for the cost of the 
clutch repair or to take any further  action in relation to the cars clutch.
The cars engine  failed in July 2018  about  a year and a half after it was supplied  to him. 
And in that time Mr B was able to drive nearly  12,000 miles in it. Ive seen evidence about a 
fault with engines that were fitted  in some models  of the car that was supplied  to Mr B. 
Those cars were fitted with a nylon coolant pipe between the engine and coolant tank that 
had the potential to fail at high temperatures. Ive seen no evidence  to show that the coolant 
pipe was replaced on Mr Bs car before it was supplied to him. And I consider it to be more 
likely than not that the engine failed because the coolant pipe hadnt been replaced.  
Mr B complained to Close Brothers and the manufacturer about the engine failure in 
July 2018. But despite the information  that was available about this type of failure  and the 
inconvenience that was being  caused to Mr B because  he didnt have a car that he could 
use, Close Brothers didnt  uphold his complaint, didnt  offer to repair  the car or to provide 
him with a courtesy  car, didnt suspend his monthly payments and didnt take any other 
action to support  him.
Mr B has provided evidence to show that he entered into another finance  agreement for a 
car to be supplied to him as he needed  to have a car that he could use. And since  then hes 
been making payments under two finance agreements which he says has caused him 
financial difficulties.
The manufacturer offered in October 2018  to pay for the car to be repaired.  But that was 
three months after the engine had failed. Mr B didnt accept  that offer because hed entered  
into another finance arrangement and the offer was made on the basis  that it was a full and 
final settlement which concerned him. 
I consider that it was fair and reasonable for Mr B not to accept the manufacturers offer in 
these circumstances.  But I consider that the engine issue was present or developing when 
the car was supplied  to Mr B. And I consider that it caused the car not to be of satisfactory  
quality when it was supplied to Mr B. The car hasnt been repaired and Mr B hasnt been  
able to use it since the engine failed. So I find that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Close Brothers to accept Mr Bs rejection of the car. And I consider that it should collect the 
car, end the agreement  and refund the deposit of £600 that he paid for the car and the 
monthly payments  that hes made under  the agreement since the engine  failed in July 2018  
(all with interest).  
These events will have  caused considerable distress and inconvenience to Mr B. So I 
consider that it would also be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers  to pay him £200  to 
compensate her for that distress and inconvenience.  And it should ensure that no adverse 
information about the agreement is recorded on Mr Bs credit  file.
Ref: DRN23685363my decision
For these reasons my decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. And I order Close Brothers  
Limited, trading  as Close Brothers Motor Finance,  to:
1.End the conditional  sale agreement  and arrange  for the car to be collected  from 
Mr B  both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr B the £600 deposit  that he paid for the car.
3.Refund to Mr B the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement since  
the engine failed in July 2018.
4.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  
from the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
5.Ensure that no adverse  information  about  the agreement is recorded on Mr Bs 
credit file.
6.Pay £200 to Mr B to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Close Brothers to deduct tax from the interest  payment 
referred to at 4 above. Close Brothers  must give Mr B a certificate showing how much  tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2368536