K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in alongside a 
mortgage in 2001 and with further advances in 2007 and 2010. Each policy  was taken out 
in both Mr and Mrs Ws names.  The policies  sold in 2001 and 2007 had the benefits was 
split 70/30 and the policy sold had the benefits split 60/40. 
Mr and Mrs W say Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Having done that, I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Lloyds shouldve made Mr and Mrs W aware  the policies were optional.  And it has provided 
copies of the mortgage and further borrowing documents  completed  at the time of each 
sale. 
Each mortgage document gives the option to select or decline to take PPI and for each  one, 
Mr and Mrs W have  either  ticked to opt for it or have  signed in agreement to taking it. 
They wouldve  then completed  a separate PPI application form and Lloyds  has provided a 
copy of these for each  PPI sale. Looking at each form, Mr and Mrs W have answered a 
number of questions  about their circumstances and chosen what  level of cover they 
wanted. 
So, overall I think Lloyds  made it clear  to Mr and Mrs W they had a choice about taking the 
PPI for each sale and they agreed to it. But given how long ago this all happened,  I can 
understand why they cant remember this.
Based on my experience of how Lloyds usually  sold these policies at the time, I think  its 
likely it gave Mr and Mrs W advice  about whether to buy the policy. So it had to check it 
was right for them. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances they seem  to have had a need for the cover. 
Neither of them was affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover.  
Mr and Mrs W say they received some sick pay benefits from their employers but the 
policies wouldve paid out alongside  any sick pay benefits, as well as covering them  both if 
they lost their jobs. Mr and Mrs W say they had some savings but having the PPI wouldve 
meant these savings could be used for other things. 
On each occasion, Mr and Mrs W were  borrowing funds  against a large and long term 
financial commitment, which was secured on their home. So I think having the security  that 
their mortgage repayments would be made if either of them were unable to work would 
have been important to them.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr and Mrs W chose to take out the PPI each time - so it looks like 
Ref: DRN29159272they wanted this type of cover. And it looks like the policy would have  been  useful for them  
if something went wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs W off taking out the cover. 
Overall I dont think Mr and Mrs W have lost out by anything Lloyds might have done  wrong.  
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr and Mrs W some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ws 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs W paid for the they had with that 
mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 October  2019
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2915927