K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr W has told us he bought the policy at a meeting in July 2000 at the same time as taking a 
credit card. Lloyds has told us Mr Ws card started  in 1995. It cant  say how or when Mr W 
applied for the PPI, but it thinks he probably  applied for it when he took the card. Lloyds only 
has statements from 2000 and the earliest of those with a balance  is July 2000 and shows 
PPI was in place at that time.  So Mr W bought the PPI at the earliest when  taking the card in 
1995 and at the latest in July 2000 just before the date of that months statement. But due to 
the time thats  passed, it isnt clear  how exactly Mr W applied for the PPI or when exactly.
The PPI provided  cover for accident, sickness and unemployment, and life cover, subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  10% of Mr Ws credit card balance in the 
event of a successful claim. The life cover would, subject to its terms, clear the balance  on 
death. From  what we know, the PPI at the times  it mightve been sold cost no more  than 79p 
per £100  of the monthly outstanding balance. The premium had to still be paid during a 
successful claim  and attracted interest.
From what  he has told us, when the policy was sold Mr W was employed as a driver and 
entitled to only statutory pay for sickness  or redundancy.  In what  he has told us for this 
complaint, Mr W hasnt  given us details of any health  issues he mightve  had  and from 
what he told us most  recently for this complaint, Mr W was in good  health at the sale and he 
hasnt told us of having missed  work  with any health issues.
Mr W hasnt offered evidence of any savings he had in 1995. He has told us of a legacy he 
received in 2000 after the card started and of having  substantial savings. In what  he told 
Lloyds initially, Mr W said he had no savings in July 2000. He later said he had savings of 
£20,000. He later told us he had savings  of £100,000. Mr W has told us that, due to the time 
that has passed, he can provide no evidence of these savings now. In what he has told us 
for this complaint,  Mr W has also consistently said he was financially stretched in July 2000  
(or when he took the policy)  and using the credit card to meet  the costs of daily living.
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show the credit card account was closed in February 2007. 
Mr Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. Ill 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mr Ws representative says:
The information Mr W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue;
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr W wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Ws representative  believes  there  to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
Ref: DRN21698782The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Mr W about  
the poor value;  and
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr W and the impact they would 
have had on his chances of making a claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
This sale took place  between  1995 and 2000 before the sale of general insurance products 
like this became regulated  in January 2005. So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching 
Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable  
to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG).
The credit agreement itself was closed in 2007.  That means the unfair  relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgement in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgement, arent applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN21698783The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ws case.
If the sale took place  in July 2000 it took place during a period of industry self-regulation  by 
the General Insurance  Standards Council (GISC).  The General Insurance  Standards 
Councils General  Insurance Code for private customers  published  by GISC (the GISC  
Code) set out minimum standards of good practice  for its members to follow when selling 
insurance, including PPI. So, Ive also taken this into account when deciding  what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ws case .
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ws complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN21698784-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent he suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr W know he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Mr W has said he had no interest in PPI 
and has said it was just included with his card as part of the package. But he set out his 
recollections for us more  than twenty years  after the card started   so it wouldnt be 
surprising if he didnt  recall events at that time in detail. Also, the PPI wasnt sold as part of a 
package with the card in 2000 like Mr W says,  because  the card started  in 1995 not 2000. I 
give Mr Ws recollections some weight  but, with what Ive said above in mind,  on their own 
these recollections  dont persuade me that Lloyds didnt give Mr W a choice about  the PPI.
Also, Ive nothing else to make me think Lloyds didnt give Mr W a choice. For example, Ive 
nothing to make me think Lloyds wouldnt normally  have given customers  like Mr W a choice 
about the PPI in sales like his. Lloyds  hasnt any paperwork from the sale of Mr Ws credit 
card to show how a choice wouldve been  given  if the sale took place at that time. But given 
the time that has passed since Mr W took the card, the absence of such  paperwork isnt 
surprising. So the absence of this paperwork in my view doesnt add weight to the notion that 
Mr W wasnt given  a choice about the PPI if he took it at the same time as he took the card.
If, on the other hand, Mr W didnt take the PPI when he took the card, and it was instead 
sold separately, I think the separate sale wouldve given an indication that the PPI was a 
separate product and that Mr W had a separate decision to make  about it.
With everything Ive said above  in mind, what I have doesnt  persuade  me that Lloyds didnt 
give Mr W a choice about the PPI. Also, Ive nothing  to suggest Lloyds pressured Mr W into 
the PPI. So, taking everything  into account,  I think its more likely  Mr W knew  the PPI was 
optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice during this sale. Mr W has said Lloyds didnt  provide  advice.  
But if Lloyds did give advice, it had to do more. With this in mind,  I think its fair to proceed 
on the basis that Lloyds gave advice.  This means it had to advise Mr W with reasonable care 
and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr W. There is no record of what Lloyds discussed in relation to the 
policy and no specific evidence to show  that Lloyds took steps to establish whether  Mr W 
would have been caught by the significant  exclusions and limitations  which might have 
meant the policy did not fully meet his needs. For example, theres nothing to suggest  Lloyds  
considered whether Mr W had consulted  or been  treated by a doctor for any health issues in 
the previous 12 months.
Ref: DRN21698785Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr W given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr W, I do think  its more likely than not the policy  was ultimately suitable for him. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr W had a need for the policy  bearing in mind what hes said about being  financially 
stretched, it seems likely his ability to continue  to meet  his credit  card payments wouldve 
been put under strain  if he wasnt working for an extended period  even allowing for his 
statutory sickness and redundancy  pay.
-Mr W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Although Mr W has referred to being  financially stretched, Ive seen nothing else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr W. There was 
nothing about  his employment  or occupation  which wouldve made it difficult for him to 
claim. He couldnt have  claimed  for work  absences related to issues hed consulted or 
been treated by a doctor  for in the 12 months  before  the policy start. But from what hes 
told us most recently for this complaint, he was in good health and didnt have any health  
issues at the time of the sale  and hes given us no details for this complaint  of any 
other health issues he mightve  have or of ever having time off work due to health issues.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim for 
disability or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr Ws circumstances.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to him and make an informed  decision about whether  to follow  that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr W was given a broad description of what the PPI was 
intended to cover (that is, it would protect  his card payments  if he were unable  to work due 
to disability or unemployment) and its likely he wouldve had some understanding of how 
much the policy  cost before agreeing to it. Ive reached this conclusion as I think  it unlikely 
Mr W wouldve  taken  the PPI without  any sense of what it was and what  it might  cost.
But the evidence  doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave  sufficient  information  at the time of sale 
about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost (the fact that premiums  would be added  to 
the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid at the end of the month,  and were  payable 
during a claim) or about the exclusions and limitations, before Mr W agreed to the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr W, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr W. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr W all the information he needed  
Ref: DRN21698786about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Ws representative considers to be poor value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have  gone  further  and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think it unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mr W has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either.
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr W? To what extent  did he suffer loss 
or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr W. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude he suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not he would have 
still taken the policy  had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr W, Ive found the policy  was ultimately suitable for 
him. In those circumstances it seems  to me that whether or not Mr W has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr W wouldve  acted  differently or whether he wouldve taken the policy  in any event.
Mr W says he wouldnt  have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  given  
the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the representations of both sides and 
the evidence relating  to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN21698787The evidence in this case suggests Mr W had some interest in taking payment protection  
insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds offered  the PPI or advised him there was a suitable  
product he could buy that would protect  his card payments if he couldnt work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment, he concluded he wanted that product. But he made  
that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he thought he was getting is 
not exactly what he got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ws circumstances that at the 
time of sale the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. In relation to the 
costs, Im satisfied Mr W ought reasonably to have known he would have to pay something  
for the PPI and that it would  cover  a portion of his outstanding  balance.  But I accept Lloyds 
didnt make clear the on-going cost information.
So, while he didnt know some things,  the ultimate  position in the event of a successful claim 
was not dissimilar to what Mr W would reasonably have thought  from the information he 
based his decision  to take the policy on and found  acceptable. Possibly the most significant 
differences between  what  Mr W thought he had bought and what  he actually bought were 
the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any health  issue  for which Mr W had consulted or 
received treatment from a doctor in the 12 months  before the policy start;
The policy excluded claims relating to mental  health conditions and contained limitations 
on claims relating to back conditions, placing more  onerous  evidential  requirements to 
support a claim on those grounds; and
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr W wasnt  
a permanent employee.
I do accept theres a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr W pause for thought   and may well have caused him to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  mightve  dissuaded some consumers 
in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Also, I havent  seen any evidence to suggest Mr W 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  his employment was permanent, 
for example, and, based on what hes told us for this complaint, he wasnt  suffering  from any 
pre-existing health conditions or suffering from any health issues  in the period within which 
Lloyds sold him the policy. So, I think Mr W still had some good  reasons to take the policy.
To make a disability claim, Mr W needed to be unable to follow  his normal  occupation due to 
sickness or injury as certified by a doctor (and not following any other  occupation). I dont 
think this is likely to be too different to what he wouldve expected. It seems unlikely he 
wouldve thought  hed be able to make  a successful claim if he were  still working,  whether  
that be in his normal job or any other  job.
Ref: DRN21698788I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the 
policy excluded claims for mental health conditions and the steps required to make  a 
disability claim for back related conditions were more onerous than Mr W might reasonably 
have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a disability claim 
without having  to provide some evidence to support  that claim. And while this exclusion and 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr W 
from taking the policy,  Mr W, in his circumstances, still had some good  reasons  to take it.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr W would still have  taken the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to what he thought 
he was getting  and from what Ive seen Im not persuaded he had any other means, apart  
from statutory benefits, with which to pay his card if he were unable  to work due to accident, 
sickness or unemployment. And, in those circumstances,  I consider it more  likely than not 
that Mr W wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mr Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms  but it is a relevant  consideration,  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr W would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr W 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he wouldve been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W in the position he would have  been  in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
Thats because,  while I accept its possible Mr W wouldnt have taken the policy, Im satisfied 
that, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not he wouldve still taken the policy  had he 
been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  he was buying. So Im 
not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude Lloyds 
Ref: DRN21698789should pay Mr W compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  than he would 
have been in if everything had happened as it should have  done.  
Im also aware Mr W thinks Lloyds  misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court might conclude  some of Lloyds 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Lloyds failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr W, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met 
when providing  information about  an insurance  policy during the period within  which this 
policy was sold. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ws representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr W and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr W in a better position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2169878