K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage (secured loan) payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  
taken out in 1989. Mr P, on his own behalf  and that of the late Mrs P says Santander UK Plc 
mis-sold them PPI.
I hope Mr P wont mind,  but for ease  and because this decision relates to events in the past, 
I will refer to Mr and Mrs P hereon in.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ps circumstances  at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And Santander told us that the 
commission for Mr and Mrs Ps PPI was less than 50% of what they paid, so it didnt  need  to 
pay back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ps. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided Santander didnt need to tell Mr and 
Mrs P about  the commission  it received - so Santander doesnt  need to pay back  any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. 
Ref: DRN20857242I say this because  Mr and Mrs P didnt take out PPI when they took out their mortgage in 
1988. They  took out PPI when they took out additional  borrowing the following year. And 
Santander has provided a copy of the application  form they completed  a separate  and 
distinct application from the additional lending application. Looking at this I can see Mr 
and Mrs P chose to take out single cover  in the name  of Mr P and they selected  the 
redundancy cover as well as the accident and sickness element of the cover.  Both Mr 
and Mrs P signed the application. By completing a separate application for PPI I dont 
think they would have been  under the impression that they had to have PPI.
Im mindful too that Santander says when it spoke to Mr P about his complaint, he said 
that he took out PPI because he was a low wage earner and if he had an accident,  he 
needed it to pay the mortgage.  And his documented circumstances at the time support 
this. 
So taking everything into account I think Mr and Mrs P chose to take out PPI and likely 
did so without undue pressure.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs P, so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances at the time,  shows  
that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example Mr P as 
the sole policyholder was eligible  for the cover and Mr and Mrs P didnt have any real 
means to fall back on to make  the repayments on their mortgage if Mr P wasnt  working.  
The policy would have paid out for up to 24 months, so I think  it would have  played  a 
useful role in protecting Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage  payments and ultimately  their home.  
There was nothing about Mr Ps employment  or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect  his ability to claim.  There were  also no additional  restrictions  on cover 
for mental  health  or back problems.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  The cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs P as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably  thought they were buying 
from the information they were  given  the application they completed would have given 
them a sense of what the cover was. And at less than £3 a month it also looks  like it was 
affordable  so it seems  like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs P would have declined the cover had Santander 
done anything  more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs P would have  still taken out PPI. I think  the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. 
I also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. 
And in those circumstances, I think that they would  have  taken  out the policy  in any event.
Ref: DRN20857243Mr and Mrs Ps representative has raised  a number of what  I consider  to be general  
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should  have  disclosed  the poor 
value and explained the significance  of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ps particular  
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Santander didnt need  to disclose the commission  it received, 
so Santander  doesnt need  to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs P paid.  My 
reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has made  a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs P should  get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  Santander failed to tell Mr and Mrs P about the high commission  and profit-
share rates paid,  the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  had they known about  the level of commission and they should  receive  a 
refund of all the premiums  they paid.
But in this case, Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ps PPI was less 
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how Santander has worked 
this out and based on what  weve seen,  Im satisfied that the commission  in Mr and Mrs Ps 
case was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN20857244-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Santander  needed to tell Mr and Mrs P about the commission. So it follows  that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Santander treated 
Mr and Mrs P unfairly. 
This means  Santander  doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs P back  any of the commission  they 
paid for the PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint or make  any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Santander  UK Plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, it doesnt  need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P - both on his 
own behalf and on behalf of the late Mrs P - to accept or reject my decision before
4 September 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2085724