K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds  (UKI)  service  in connection with his 
motor insurance policy.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
background
Mr A took out a UKI policy online in 2017. Shortly after the policy  renewed  in 2018 UKI 
learned about a discrepancy concerning the named driver on it. Mr A asked UKI to remove  
the named driver. UKI charged Mr A an additional  premium of around  £104 to reflect that 
change for the remaining term of the policy.
Mr A didn't  think UKI had dealt with him fairly and brought  his complaint to us. Our 
adjudicator didn't think UKI had done  anything wrong. Mr A didn't  agree so his complaint's  
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr As made a number of detailed  points.  But in this decision I will 
focus on what I see as being the key issues.
When he took out his policy Mr A added his brother as a named driver. But when filling  out 
the details of his relationship with his brother, he said that his brother was his partner. Mr A 
said this must have been UKIs mistake. But UKIs shown  us evidence that this was the 
information Mr A gave when he applied for the policy online.  So it was Mr A that made the 
mistake not UKI. And Im satisfied that this situation arose because of Mr As actions and not 
because of something UKI did or didn't do.
Also the policy  documents showed  Mr As brother - his named driver - as being Mr As 
partner. But Mr A said he didn't notice that and so didn't amend the details when his policy  
renewed. As a result the renewal policy also recorded Mr As brother as his partner. When 
UKI found out about the mistake it told Mr A that hed been  receiving a discount for having  
his partner as a named driver since  he first took out his policy  in 2017. So it said it would 
remove that discount. But it didn't actually charge him any extra  for having receiving the 
discount incorrectly up to that point.
After removing Mr As brother from the policy the premium rose by around £104 for its 
remaining period.  Mr A didn't think that was fair. But while Mr A might not agree with how 
UKI calculates its premiums that doesn't mean its dealt  with him unfairly.
I need to be clear that were not the industry  regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) is. So its not my role to say how much  an insurer  should charge, what  factors  it 
should assess, or how much risk to attach to each of those factors.  Insurance is essentially 
an assessment of risk. And we generally take the view that, providing  they treat people fairly,  
insurers are entitled  to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
Ref: DRN29078672Insurers consider many  factors when setting premiums.  And each insurer  will take its own 
approach as to how to do that. When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers 
will make an assessment of how likely  it is that their policyholders  will make  a claim and how 
much they might have  to pay out for those. And each  insurer  will go about  that in its own 
way. So, when deciding  if an insurer  has dealt  with a consumer fairly, I look to see if its 
treated them  the same  as it would other consumers with similar circumstances.
In this case its apparent  UKI thinks that policyholders who add their partners as named 
drivers are a lower  risk than policyholders  who don't have a partner on the policy. Mr A might 
not agree  with UKIs assessment of risk. But as I've said above, its for UKI to decide for 
itself what increases or reduces  a risk. And if its assessment is that policyholders who 
nominate their partner as a named  driver pose less of a risk than other consumers then its 
entitled to apply a discount and charge less for its policies.  I don't think  theres anything 
wrong with that. Thats a commercial decision its entitled to take and isn't something that we 
would interfere with. 
Mr As said that UKI has discriminated against him because UKI thought  he was in a same 
sex relationship as his premium increased  when  he told it he wasn't. But Mr A is mistaken 
about that. Indeed Mr As policy defines partner like this:
Partner  your husband, wife or someone you are living with as if you are married to them.
I think thats clear that its the relationship between the policyholder  and their named driver 
that matters to UKI, not the gender  of those two people. And Im satisfied that if UKI had 
added a female partner as named  driver Mr A would  have received the same  discount as he 
did when UKI thought  his brother was his partner. So I don't agree that UKIs discriminated 
against Mr A because he isn't in a same  sex relationship.
Mr As added that he does have  a partner so he should receive  the discount. But his partner 
isn't a named driver on his policy. So he simply doesn't qualify for the reduction in premium  
that a partner who is named on the policy would qualify him for. And UKI would apply those 
criteria to all their customers,  regardless  of sex, with similar circumstances. So I think  its 
dealt with him fairly.
Mr A also said he didn't know he was receiving  a discount for having a named driver 
recorded as a partner. I accept  thats  the case. But information about how insurers  calculate 
their premiums is commercially sensitive. So insurers wont  usually  set out how theyve 
worked out a premium  to their customers,  nor will they share the statistics on which  theyve 
based those calculations. Thats because that information  could  give a commercial  edge to 
their competitors. So we dont expect insurers to explain how theyve calculated  a premium 
or, generally,  what discounts theyve applied. It follows that I don't think UKI did anything 
wrong in not explaining to Mr A what discounts  it had applied  and what  those were for. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Joe Scott
Ref: DRN29078673ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2907867