K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policies taken 
out in 1996 and 2002. Mr and Mrs W say Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold 
them the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the MPPI policies werent  mis-sold because:
Bank of Scotland hasnt been able to provide the original paperwork completed at the 
time the two MPPI policies were  sold to Mr and Mrs W. I dont think  this is surprising 
given how long ago the MPPI was sold to Mr and Mrs W. For the same reason I wouldnt 
necessarily expect  Mr and Mrs Ws recollections  of the sales to be that detailed either. 
But from what I know of Bank of Scotlands  sales practices,  I think  its most likely that 
Mr and Mrs W were given a choice about the MPPI in 2002. And, in respect of the 1996 
policy, although  I appreciate what Mr and Mrs W have said about Mr W not making a 
claim in 2000 because he didnt know he had the cover, its possible he mightve simply 
forgotten he had the cover by then.  Overall I just dont think  theres enough evidence for 
me to say Mr and Mrs W werent given a choice about the policies.  I think its most likely 
that Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mr and Mrs W didnt have to take out the MPPI 
and that they chose  to take it  although I can understand why they cant  remember  this. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs W so it had to check  that the 
MPPI was right for them  and based  on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. For example, Mr W, whom the policies covered, wasnt affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI  cover;  and Mr and Mrs W seem to have 
had a need for the cover. Ive thought about  what  theyve said about their sick pay 
entitlement in this respect. But the 1996 policy couldve  paid out for up to 12 months per 
claim if Mr W wasnt able to work or lost his job, and the 2002  policy couldve paid out for 
up to 24 months per claim in the same circumstances, at what couldve been a difficult 
time  potentially  for longer  and in addition to any sick pay Mr W mightve  received. The 
mortgage was an important long term financial commitment  secured on Mr and Mrs Ws 
home. And the cover appears to have been  a sensible precaution.  So I dont think I can 
say it was wrong for Bank of Scotland to recommend the cover.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs W about the MPPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out  so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it could have been  useful for them if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
MPPI would have put them off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs W have said. But for the reasons explained above, 
these points dont  change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN22848472This means  I dont  think the MPPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr and Mrs W paid for it. But, in respect  of the 2002 policy,  Bank  of Scotland has 
already offered to give Mr and Mrs W back some  of the cost of the MPPI  and in respect of 
this policy  I dont think it needs to do anything more.
But additionally, in respect of the 1996 policy, Bank of Scotland will pay back  some of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs W because:
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the 
MPPI premium) in respect of the 1996  policy  so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about  
that. Because  Bank  of Scotland didnt tell Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair.
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above  50% of the MPPI premium  and I think  that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium  in respect of the 1996 policy. 
Bank of Scotland should also pay back to Mr and Mrs W any extra interest they paid 
because of that.
Bank of Scotland should pay back to Mr and Mrs W the extra  they paid each month  because  
of the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of the MPPI.  
Bank of Scotland should also pay Mr and Mrs W 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs W can claim  back  the tax if they dont  pay 
tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policies  werent  mis-sold  so Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs W any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium in respect 
of the 1996 policy.
Ref: DRN22848473Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2284847