K822xcomplaint
Mr Q has complained about the way Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) about the way
its handled a claim he made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (s.75).
background
In late 2013 Mr Q purchased a solar panel  system for his home from a company called
Genius Energy who arranged for its supply and installation. Mr Q paid for the system  using
a loan from Shawbrook.
Essentially Mr Q says he was told the system  would be self-funding  and that the financial
benefits provided by the solar panels would cover the cost of the loan payments. But he
also says the system  hasnt performed  as he was told it would  and so hes had to make  loan
payments which  were unaffordable.
Genius Energy went into administration in 2016 so Mr Q complained  to Shawbrook. Under
s.75 a claim can be made against a creditor (the finance company) for a breach of contract
or misrepresentation made by the supplier.
Shawbrook requested further information from Mr Q but it wasnt provided, and it initially
didnt uphold  the s.75 claim. So, Mr Q referred his complaint to our Service. Shawbrook
subsequently agreed to make Mr Q an offer to resolve things by adjusting the loan to make
the system self-funding. It based the calculation on the recommendations of an industry
expert who reviewed the benefits of the system  to date,  and estimations  of future
performance.
Shawbrook noted  that Mr Q had stopped making loan payments and was in arrears. But to
make the system self-funding it considered Mr Q would have paid £14,114.12  over the loan.
term (having taken account of the benefits  from the system  over the same period). As Mr Q
had actually paid £3,181.10 in total already, Shawbrook calculated  the balance to be
£10,577.84. So, it gave Mr Q the option  of continuing his normal  monthly  payment of
£122.35 for 87 months or extending the loan term to 154 months and reducing the payment
to £68.69.
One of our investigators  reviewed everything  and explained that she felt Shawbrooks offer is
fair. But Mr Q, represented by his son, didnt accept the offer and pointed out the calculation
was based upon estimates  and assumptions  on the financial benefits  not actual savings.
He said Mr Q couldnt afford the loan and just wanted the solar  panels removed. He also
raised concerns  Genius  Energy had never explained how the system would pay for the loan,
and that Mr Q only had a modest  income  at the time of sale.
The investigator queried the affordability of the loan with Shawbrook.  It provided an
explanation of what it understood Mr Qs circumstances were at the time of sale and offered
to recalculate its offer if Mr Q provided the actual statements showing the benefits  and
meter readings.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint was passed for an ombudsman to review
afresh and reach a decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN25751402Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached much the
same conclusion as the investigator and Ill explain why.
Where information is missing or disputed,  I must  decide what I consider to be most likely on
balance  and then decide whether Shawbrook has acted fairly and reasonably  when
dealing with Mr Qs s.75 claim.
Essentially, Mr Q originally complained he was told by Genius Energy that the solar  panel
system would pay for itself and the financial benefits would cover the cost of the loan with
Shawbrook. Im satisfied Shawbrook is responsible for any misrepresentation made at the
point of sale, and its accepted this also. So, the key issue for me to decide is whether the
offer made by Shawbrook to Mr Q is fair and reasonable.
I understand Mr Q would now like the solar  panels  removed and the loan cancelled as he
feels the system has never been affordable. But having considered the available  evidence  I
dont think that Shawbrooks required to do this.
Mr Qs son has explained that he feels the loan would never  have been  affordable  as his
income was modest  at the time. Shawbrook has provided information to this Service to
show that it carried out checks at the time of sale, but those checks are commercially
sensitive and cant be more widely shared.  But from what Ive seen Im satisfied Shawbrook
did consider Mr Qs circumstances.
Ive also thought about the fact that if the system was self-funding  as Mr Q believed,  he
would not have been contributing anything to the loan, and the financial benefits  from the
solar panels  would cover the cost. The benefits  come from the system generating energy to
reduce electricity bills and receiving Feed-in-Tariff (FIT) payments for the excess energy
sold back to the grid. So, I agree that the principle of making  the system self-funding is the
most appropriate way of putting things right.
So, the next thing Ive considered is whether the calculation Shawbrook  has used to
determine what would be required  to make the system self-funding  is fair and reasonable.
Mr Qs son highlighted that the calculation is not based on the actual energy usage and
benefits of the system. I note that in response  to the original complaint Mr Q raised,
Shawbrook requested several  documents to assess the actual usage and benefits, but these
were never provided to it. And despite  further  requests  during the handling of this complaint
the actual figures  have  never been confirmed.
In the absence of certainty, Shawbrook instructed an industry  expert to provide estimations
of usage and benefits for the calculation to be based on. In the circumstances I consider
that a reasonable approach for it to take, and whilst the calculation may not be entirely
accurate, Im satisfied  it will likely be broadly  correct   perhaps even slightly  in Mr Qs favour.
So, I consider the offer is fair. Mr Q will continue to receive energy savings and any FIT
benefits from the system,  and he can then decide whether to repay  the loan quicker by
contributing to the loan payments, or pay a reduced amount over an extended term.
In addition to making  the system  self-funding, Shawbrook has offered Mr Q £100 for the
trouble and upset  hes experienced  as a result of the problems  and uncertainty.
my final decision
Ref: DRN25751403My final decision is that I uphold Mr Qs complaint against Shawbrook  Bank Limited.
Im satisfied the offer it has now made to put things  right is fair and reasonable, and I leave it
for Mr Q to decide which of the options  he wishes to choose.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or
reject my decision  before 24 July 2020
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2575140