K821x#15complaint
Mr H says it was irresponsible for Loans 2 Go Limited (Loans 2 Go) to lend him money  in 
2018.
background
In March 2018, Loans 2 Go Limited  lent Mr H £300. Mr H agreed to repay this, with interest,  
over 18 months. 
Interest was charged at a simple fixed interest rate of 205.2% per year, applied in full at the 
start of the loan,  equivalent to an APR of 990.1%. 
The monthly repayments were £67.97. So if Mr H made each payment when it was due, hed 
pay £1,223.46  in total.
Mr H made  the first payment, when due, at the end of March. He then stopped  further 
payments. Loans  2 Go issued a default  notice and then a final demand in July 2018. Mr H 
then starting making  further payments towards the debt.
Mr H thinks Loans 2 Go were irresponsible to lend him the money.
I issued my provisional assessment of this complaint  on 9 April 2020. I said, based on what 
Id seen, I thought  the complaint should be upheld.
Loans 2 Go replied  to say that it accepted my findings. Mr H says he agrees with my 
findings, but thinks he should  also get additional  compensation for the trouble and upset the 
actions of the business caused him.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes  of practice; and what I consider to have been good  industry  practice at the 
time.
In this case, the rules that applied  to Loans  2 Go were set out in the Financial  Conduct  
Authoritys handbook at CONC. 
These provide  that before making  a regulated  credit  agreement, Loans 2 Go had to 
undertake an assessment  of Mr Hs creditworthiness.
Loans 2 Go had to consider the potential for the commitments under the credit agreement to 
adversely impact Mr Hs financial situation,  taking  into account the information of which it 
was aware. It also had to consider the ability of Mr H to make repayments as they fell due 
over the life of the loan.
The rules  dont prescribe  specific checks that needed to be carried out in all cases. The 
checks Loans 2 Go did carry out needed  to be proportionate, depending on the individual  
Ref: DRN25031292circumstances of the lending. This might include the type and amount of the credit  being 
sought and the potential  risks to the customer.
The credit worthiness assessment had to take into account more than assessing the 
customers ability to repay  the credit. Loans  2 Go needed to take reasonable steps to assess 
Mr Hs ability  to meet the repayments under the agreement in a sustainable manner. This 
means that the repayments could be made by Mr H without undue  difficulties  and in 
particular that he could make these payments  on time, over the life of the agreement,  while 
meeting other reasonable commitments,  and without having to borrow to meet  the 
repayments.
The rules  also say that if a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its 
creditworthiness assessment, its not generally  sufficient for the firm to rely solely for on a 
statement of those matters made  by the customer.
Finally, the rules list unfair  business  practices. In particular, the rules say a lender mustnt 
accept an application  for credit where  it knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the 
customer has not been truthful  in completing  the application in relation to information 
supplied by the customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment.
Ive taken the rules  in CONC  into account  in reaching my decision.
In my provisional decision I said that the complaint should be upheld.  I said:
As I see it, the main questions I need to consider are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete  reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr H could repay  this loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make  a 
fair lending decision? If not, would those checks have shown that Mr H would 
be able to do so?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive first looked at the checks Loans 2 Go carried out before it lent the money. Loans 
2 Go has sent us a copy of the information  Mr H entered  in his application. Mr H was 
borrowing £300 over a term of 18 months.  He said he earned £2,000 a month, and 
listed £500 of expenses,  including £50 a month on other credit  commitments.
Loans 2 Go says it then checked  this by referring to a report  from a credit  reference 
agency. It says it verified Mr Hs income  as £1,267. And it worked out his monthly 
expenses and credit  commitments were £996.03. So based on this, it concluded that 
the loan repayments were  affordable.
Ive carefully considered what Loans  2 Go said it did. Having done so, I conclude 
that further checks would have been proportionate.
First of all, the information Loans  2 Go said it got from the credit reference  agency is 
significantly different from the information Mr H entered on the loan application. The 
monthly expenditure and commitments Loans 2 Go worked out based  on the credit 
file are nearly double  those entered by Mr H on the credit application. The income 
Loans 2 Go verified is significantly less.
Ref: DRN25031293The rules that applied  to Loans 2 Go at the time expressly said it mustnt accept an 
application for credit if it ought reasonably to have suspected the consumer hadnt 
been truthful in completing the application in relation to information relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment. So I think Loans 2 Go should either have  carried  out 
further checks  to see if there were good reasons for this difference  or it shouldnt  
have lent the money  at all.
I also see that the information on the credit  file suggested Mr H was in financial 
difficulties. Two of the open loans listed on his credit file showed  arrangement  to 
pay markers  in one case  Mr H was paying just £5 a month towards a balance of 
£750, while in the other  the file showed that, despite reaching an arrangement  with 
the lender, hed still recently missed one of the payments. Mr H had three open credit  
card accounts, and had exceeded the credit  limits on all of them. And looking at his 
accounts, I see further evidence of missed  payments and arrangements to repay   
and including  the two open  loans Ive already mentioned, of the five loans shown on 
the credit  file prior to taking out this new one, four had ended up with a payment  
arrangement, even if two were in the end settled. 
Based on what Ive seen,  therefore,  it looks as though Mr H was already having 
difficulties meeting his existing  credit commitments. In these circumstances, I think 
further checks to establish  that Mr H could take on more credit would have been 
proportionate.
So Ive gone on to consider what further checks would  most likely have revealed. 
Mr H has sent us bank  statements  from January  to April 2018. Given  the very serious 
concerns Ive mentioned above,  I think it would  have been proportionate to have had 
sight of these. These show considerable levels of spending. Mr Hs statement for 
9 February to 9 March,  the month prior to this loan, shows Mr H spent  over £6,000.  
Around £1,700 appears to have gone  towards  existing debts. Around £2,200 was 
spent on internet gambling.  
The statements also show Mr H was borrowing to finance his existing  credit  
commitments.. The statement for 9 January  to 8 February show  Mr H drawing down 
around £750 in loans.  I see that on 6 March  2018  Mr H borrowed around £910  from 
three separate lenders.  I note that in the latter case, Mr H made matching payments 
to an internet gambling company on the same day.
In any event, the fact that Mr H was borrowing a significant amount each month just 
to fund his existing expenditure and credit  commitments means there  was a very real 
prospect that Mr H would  need to borrow again in order  to repay his new credit 
commitment. Mr H had a history of entering  payment  arrangements  with lenders. As 
such, had Loans 2 Go carried out further  checks I think it would more likely than not 
seen that Mr H was unlikely to be able to sustainably make his payments.
Ive considered the further  points  Loans  2 Go has raised. It has referred me to 
decisions by other ombudsmen that have  been  published on our website. But those 
decisions were made  in the particular context of other consumers complaints, 
involving other businesses. They dont help me decide what  is fair in this case. I 
havent looked at those  other case files, and in any case, as Ive already explained,  
creditworthiness assessments depend  very much on the particular circumstances of 
the individual lending decision.
Ref: DRN25031294Loans 2 Go has also said that its unfair  to hold it responsible if Mr H gave 
inaccurate information in his application. But based on what  Loans 2 Go has told us, 
it knew when it verified  Mr Hs income  and expenditure  that there were reasons to 
believe some  of this information  might  be incorrect. So Im satisfied, given the rules 
and good industry  practice at the time,  that its fair to hold it accountable if it decided  
to lend anyway.
Loans 2 Go says it agrees with my findings and with my proposals to put things right.
Mr H suggests he should get further compensation for the trouble and upset he thinks Loans 
2 Go caused. Ive thought about this. My award includes simple  interest  to compensate  Mr H 
for the time hes been  deprived of the money.  And I recognise that what  happened to Mr H 
must have  been  stressful.  Equally, I note that Mr H accepts that by applying  for the loan 
some of this was in part his own fault.
putting things right
Loans 2 Go shouldnt have given  Mr H this loan. Mr H has now settled this account. So 
Loans 2 Go should:
a)Add together the total repayments made by Mr H towards  interest, fees and charges 
on the loan.
b)Work  out simple interest* (the rate is 8% per year) on the individual  payments made  
by Mr H which were  considered as part of (a), from the date Mr H originally made the 
payment to the date the complaint is settled.
Loans 2 Go should then pay Mr H the amounts calculated  in (a) and (b).
c)Loans 2 Go should then remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Hs credit 
file in relation  to this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Loans  2 Go to deduct  tax from this interest.  It should give Mr H a certificate 
showing how much tax it has deducted, if Mr H asks for one.
Ref: DRN25031295my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Loans 2 
Go should put things  right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2503129