K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  
S.A (Mapfre) didn't  pay his travel insurance  claim. My references  to Mapfre  include its
agents.
background 
Mr S' return flight home from abroad was cancelled by the airline. He says no alternative 
flight was given and he had to travel to a different airport, buy flight tickets to a UK airport 
and hire a car to get to the UK airport where  he'd departed and left his car.
Mr S claimed for the extra costs he incurred. He had told Mapfre his costs  should be paid 
under the cancellation or missed departure sections of the policy.  Mapfre declined the claim 
for the costs. It said it could consider a claim for travel  benefit under the travel delay section 
of the policy  but there was no cover for the specific costs claimed in Mr S' circumstances. 
Mr S complained to us. He thought a new 'European ruling' said claims couldn't be declined  
because of ambiguous or misleading wording. He said the policy  didn't say there  was no 
cover for costs  relating to cancelled return  flight  costs so Mapfre  should pay his costs.
Our investigator said Mapfre had fairly declined the claim for costs under the travel delay, 
cancellation and missed departure policy sections.
Mr S disagreed and wanted an ombudsman's decision. He referred to policy wording which  
he said meant his claim was covered. He emphasised the policy exclusions didn't mention 
cancelled return flights.
Before I made my decision I asked Mr S to send us the policy with the wording he referred to 
and whether he'd received any travel delay benefit from Mapfre. He said the wording was 
from his research into requirements by insurance  companies. He hadn't  received any travel  
delay benefit.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was partly upholding the complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether Mapfre fairly  and reasonably declined Mr S' claim.
Mr S has referred to a recent European Court ruling  about claims not being  declined due to 
ambiguous policy wording.  He hasn't said which court ruling he's referring  to but our 
approach has long been that ambiguous wording is one of the things we take into account in 
deciding whether an insurer can fairly  and reasonably decline a claim.
Mr S' claim isn't covered under the cancellation section of the policy. That section provides 
cover for costs  of a trip that's cancelled before Mr S leaves the UK and the cancellation is 
due to specific reasons  which the policy details. That wasn't Mr S' situation at all.
Mr S' claim isn't covered under the missed departure section of the policy.  That section 
provides cover for some  costs if specific events,  detailed in the policy,  result in Mr S not 
being able to reach the airport in time to get his flight home. That wasn't Mr S' situation. He 
got to the airport  in time. He didn't take the scheduled flight  as it was cancelled by the airline.
Ref: DRN28152682The cover provided by the cancellation and missed  departure  sections is clearly for very 
different situations  to Mr S' circumstances. The wording isn't ambiguous  or misleading  about 
what types of situations  are covered.  Mapfre doesn't  have to say that costs incurred due to a 
cancelled return flight home are excluded. There's  nothing in those policy sections to 
suggest there is cover for cancelled return flight home costs.
Mr S has quoted the travel delay section of the policy  as saying:
'You are covered  up to the amount shown if the outward or inward flight is delayed  for more 
than 12 hours' and 'You are covered for the portion of your travel  which has not been  used  
and for other travel and accommodation costs'.
That's not what the policy says. The policy says there's travel delay cover:
'1) for a benefit  of £20 for the first full 12 hours you are delayed and £10 for each full 
12 hours you are delayed after that, up to a maximum of £100  (regardless  of the number  of 
incidents of delay)

If your outward flights...  from your Home Country  are delayed for more  than 12 hours beyond 
the intended departure time (as specified  on your travel ticket) as a result of:
a) strike or industrial action (provided that when this policy was taken out, there was no 
reasonable expectation that the trip would be affected by such cause);
b) adverse weather  conditions  if the underlying and continuing cause;
c) mechanical breakdown  or technical fault of the aircraft, coach, train or sea vessel'.
That wording  refers  to delay of a flight (which  in effect is what  happened  to Mr S when his 
was cancelled) but only from the UK.
As the problem was with Mr S' flight to the UK the above wording suggests Mr S isn't 
covered for travel delay. But the wording  goes on to say:
This section  only applies  for delays  at your final international departure point to or from (my 
emphasis) your Home Country'.
That wording  says delayed return flights are covered for travel delay benefit, so the policy 
wording of the travel delay section is ambiguous and it's fair for the wording to be read in 
Mr S' favour. Mapfre's final response letter to Mr S also said travel benefit could be 
considered but it's made no payment.
The travel delay section  isn't saying Mapfre will pay all the costs Mr S incurred as result  of 
his cancelled flight. There's  no ambiguity about that. It's very common for travel insurance 
not to cover  actual costs  incurred if a return flight is cancelled or delayed.
But Mr S may be due some travel  delay benefit  and Mapfre needs to assess  the travel delay 
claim.
It's for Mapfre  to assess the travel delay  benefit claim. It's fair for me to tell both parties that 
we consider it reasonable for an insurer to think about how long the consumer would have 
waited if they hadn't made their alternative  travel  arrangements when assessing how much 
travel delay benefit should be paid.
Ref: DRN28152683It's also fair for me to tell Mr S that airlines have their own responsibilities to passengers 
where a flight has been  delayed  or cancelled. European Union regulations say that airlines 
have to provide  specific costs and compensation in specific circumstances. I've asked our 
investigator to send Mr S information about making  a claim under those regulations.  Mr S 
will need  to decide  if his circumstances meet the criteria to make a claim under  those 
regulations.
Mapfre fairly and reasonably declined Mr S' claim for additional costs. But it must  assess  his 
travel delay benefit claim once it has the information it needs from Mr S.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mapfre accepted  and agreed  to consider a claim under the travel delay section on receipt of 
the necessary  information.
Mr S said although he still disagreed he would accept  my findings.  He gave some 
information for his travel  delay claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  decision  Ive no reason to change my mind. 
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings I partly uphold  the 
complaint. Mapfre must assess  Mr S claim for travel delay.  Mr S will need to directly send to 
Mapfre the information he sent to us for that claim.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint.
I require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania  Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to 
assess Mr S' claim for travel delay benefit.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2815268