K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S, who are business partners, complain  that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  them 
an interest rate hedging product (IRHP) and hasnt  paid enough compensation.
background
The circumstances leading to this complaint were set out in my provisional  decision dated 
26 November 2019, a copy of which is attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional view was that the sale of the IRHP  didnt cause the consequential  losses 
claimed by Mr and Mrs S for the liquidation  of their company and for unachieved profit on a 
property development  project.
I asked the parties  if they wanted  to send me anything further in response to my findings.
HSBC said it had no comments on my provisional  decision.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree with my provisional  decision. They made  the following points, in 
summary:
Their company T was profitable and no repayments had been  missed at any point. 
Business plans had been discussed,  with time scales.  Nothing  in the plans changed. 
What changed  was that the accounts were referred to the banks Special Support  
Unit (SSU).
Ts 2009  accounts
The banks analysis  of losses in Ts draft accounts show that the IRHP was the 
crucial factor in the SSU referral.
The director withdrawals were for the IRHP  repayments. They  werent in lieu of 
salaries, but in lieu of rent, which had already  been accounted for.
The final accounts  later showed that T recorded  a profit in 2009.
HSBCs other concerns
In 2010, the banks  view of a number of matters was wrong. These were: the 
overdraft increase (which  was an agreed  part of the business plan); whether enough 
cash was being generated; the companys net worth; and the uses  to which  the 
directors drawings were being put. 
Ts liquidation
The amount  outstanding  to creditors was nothing more  than a month or two of 
supplier payments.
The money owed  to directors was included in the figure stated and doesnt  need to 
be added  on.
Ref: DRN27161122the development project
In 2010, HSBC was wrong in its assessment of the value, prospects and risks of the 
project.
The adjudicator  was wrong  to say theres  no evidence  that the sale of the property 
was forced.
the effect on the partners
The way the bank treated the partners  was bullying and has resulted in some long-
term problems personally. It did affect  the whole situation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I accept that, without the IRHP, the figures  for Ts 2009 
profit and loss account would have been better. I also think Ts negative net worth and its 
overdraft would have  been lower. But I still think the scale of the financial problems 
described in the letter  of concern in 2010 was far greater than the IRHP payments that T had 
made. Moreover, the bank had a number  of other concerns at the time (about accounting  
information, financial control and security  cover) which, in my view,  wouldnt have been 
caused by the IRHP. 
In reaching this view (both in this final decision and in my provisional decision) Ive taken into 
account Mr and Mrs Ss points about  the handling  of the rent in the company accounts, and 
that the directors withdrawals were  partly to cover  the IRHP payments.
Having considered all of Mr and Mrs Ss comments carefully, Im still not persuaded that T 
would have avoided  the second referral to the SSU if the company hadnt made the IRHP 
payments.
Mr and Mrs S say HSBC was wrong about  the problems it described in its letter  of concern. 
But I should stress here that Im not determining whether  the banks assessment of Ts 
situation in 2010 was reasonable  at the time. Mr and Mrs Ss claim is for consequential 
losses flowing from the mis-sale of the IRHP, so this complaint is only about how the banks 
assessment would have  differed if T hadnt made the IRHP  payments. My view remains that, 
given the banks overall assessment of the companys situation, its likely there would have  
been a referral to the SSU even if T hadnt  been  burdened  with the IRHP payments.
Similarly, I recognise that Mr and Mrs S think  the bank was also mistaken in its risk analysis 
of the development project, and about the value of the property. But again, the 
reasonableness of the banks assessment in 2010 isnt the issue  in this complaint, which  is 
about the effect of the IRHP payments. I dont think the banks analysis of the risks and 
value of the project would  have been affected by the IRHP payments. So I still dont think  the 
mis-sale of the IRHP caused  the sale of the development property or any losses that the 
partners suffered from the sale. 
Mr and Mrs S say the referral to the SSU precipitated the banks  actions regarding  the 
development project. But even if I accepted that argument, it wouldnt establish that their 
Ref: DRN27161123losses on the project could be traced back to the IRHP payments. Thats because Ive 
already concluded that the referral  to the SSU wasnt  caused by the IRHP payments.
As regards  the financial position of company T at the time of the administration and 
liquidation, Mr and Mrs S say its liabilities were no more than would be expected  of a 
company like theirs. But the issue in this part of the complaint is whether the IRHP payments 
were the cause of Ts liabilities on this scale. The total owed  by T to its creditors was 
estimated to exceed  £350,000, which was far greater than the £68,000 paid out for the 
IRHP. So I cant say the IRHP caused the company to go into liquidation. 
Mr and Mrs S say they suffered personally  during  the events  in this complaint, and that these 
problems affected  the whole situation. Ive no reason to doubt  that Mr and Mrs S have faced  
personal difficulties,  some  of which are long-term.  Losing their company and the 
development project must  have been a painful  time for them and they have my sympathy. 
But the present  complaint is about  a claim for consequential  losses flowing from the IRHP. 
Im not persuaded that Ts or the partners financial situations during the events in this 
complaint were the result of personal difficulties caused by the IRHP.  So its still my view that 
the losses claimed werent  a result of the IRHP payments. 
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  depart  from my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to offer any further  compensation 
for consequential losses resulting from the mis-sale of the IRHP.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2020.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27161124COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs S, who are business partners,  complain  that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them an 
interest rate hedging  product  (IRHP) and hasnt  paid enough  compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs S owned all the shares  in a limited  company,  which Ill call T, in the retail  home 
improvement sector. They borrowed funds from HSBC in 2007 to buy out their previous business 
partners. Mr and Mrs S were also engaged in property  development.
Alongside their loan, Mr and Mrs S entered an IRHP  in 2007. It was an interest rate collar, which 
would keep their interest costs within a specific  range for the duration of the five-year agreement, 
covering £638,000 of their borrowing. 
For the period November  2008 to August  2009, the partners and Ts accounts  were transferred to the 
banks Special Support Unit (SSU). In the summer of 2010, the accounts  were  transferred a second 
time to the SSU. In August 2011 Ts finances were put in the hands of an administrator, and in 
September 2012 the company went  into liquidation.
Later HSBC reviewed the sale of the partners IRHP under  its agreement with the Financial Conduct 
Authority and concluded that the sale hadnt met the required standards. In 2014 the bank offered to 
put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if they hadnt had any kind of IRHP. The 
redress was a refund  of all the IRHP  payments, plus interest. Postponed  IRHP payments were also 
waived. Part of the offer was that Mr and Mrs S would be free to submit  a further claim for 
consequential losses. 
Mr and Mrs S accepted the banks  offer and received a refund of £68,073 plus £24,379 compensatory  
interest.
The partners then made their claim  for consequential  losses. Their total claim was for £481,372. 
HSBC didnt  uphold most of the claim. It offered  £3,000 plus interest for higher arrangement, renewal 
and management fees. Unhappy with the banks  response, Mr and Mrs S referred  their complaint to 
us.
The partners claim was for £225,000 for the loss of their company T, and for £256,372  for 
unachieved profit on a property development project. 
Mr and Mrs S said the cost of the IRHP had forced T to be put into the SSU. This made T and the 
partners subject to aggressive management by the bank, and to penalty bank charges. As a result,  T 
was forced into liquidation. Mr and Mrs S also said the bank, as a result of the accounts  being in the 
SSU, prevented the partners  from accepting alternative offers of finance for the development project  
and forced  the sale of the property.
Our adjudicator investigated  the complaint  and concluded that the banks offer of compensation  for 
consequential losses was fair and reasonable. He gave these reasons, in summary:
It appears that the bank transferred the accounts to the SSU in 2008 because  T wasnt 
producing the expected profits, which put pressure  on it to meet  the loan repayments and 
other drawings. Ts overdraft was increasing and there was an asset shortfall. By this time,  
the collar payments totalled only £4,400, which wasnt  enough to have caused Ts financial 
problems. So the collar  couldnt  be said to have caused the first transfer to the SSU.
When the accounts  were referred to the SSU again in 2010,  the overall  cost of the collar had 
reached £46,000.  But the banks  letter of concern said Ts overdraft had increased  to 
Ref: DRN27161125£90,000, of which £70,000 was hard-core debt; T still wasnt generating  the level of cash 
needed to meet requirements; and the net worth of the business and the levels of security 
cover had fallen. The adjudicator thought it reasonable to conclude that the transfer to the 
SSU would  have happened  even if the collar hadnt been in place.
The partners said their drawings from the company were to pay the IRHP costs.  But it 
appears they were  drawing significantly more  than the IRHP costs.
When the accounts  were transferred  to the SSU the second time,  there were  discussions with 
the bank about ways  to reduce the overall  borrowing. One of the agreed courses of action 
was to the sale of the property. Nothing on file suggests this decision  was forced by the bank. 
By this time the options  to reduce the level of borrowing were limited.
The claim  for loss of value of the development property was based on assuming the 
completion of the project, which required an additional £367,500. The adjudicator  wasnt 
convinced that sufficient funding would have been available for completion.
A number  of factors led to Ts liquidation.  The liquidators commented on problems  suffered by 
the business, such  as losses caused by staff issues. T also appears to have been unable to 
pay its unsecured  creditors. The estimated total deficiency appears to have been in the region 
of £370,000. On liquidation the deficiency was £129,330.89, which was significantly more 
than the £68,000 collar payments. 
The adjudicator didnt believe it had been  shown that, in the absence  of the collar,  the 
accounts would have avoided referral to the SSU or the property project  would have been 
completed. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with the adjudicators  conclusions.  They and their accountant made  the 
following points, in summary:
The IRHP costs were paid from Ts account  and this was treated as fund loaned to the 
partners, which was offset against company  business expenses  either paid personally by the 
partners or charged  by them to the company,  such as rent. The rent had already been taken  
into consideration  in the companys accounts. Taking these factors  into account, the 
companys purified losses for 2009 were much  lower  than claimed by the bank.  At the time of 
the transfer to the SSU,  the purified loss calculated from the draft accounts should  have 
been only £40,804, of which over half was a result of the IRHP costs.  Later the finalised 
accounts showed the company to be in profit.
Before  the 2010 SSU referral, Mr and Mrs S actively looked elsewhere  for finance for the 
development of the property and the bank  was happy for them to do this. But when the 
accounts were transferred  to the SSU, it was evident  that HSBC  changed  its mind and 
aggressively requested  the sale of the property.
The IRHP led directly  to the SSU referral and this in turn led to the insolvency. 
The liquidation was caused by the financial strain not only on the business but also on Mr and 
Mrs S. The business  had been highly  profitable in the past and Mr and Mrs S were 
experienced business owners, so without the financial strain and personal stresses caused by 
the IRHP, things would  have been very different. 
The directors  feared  repercussions from the bank, so they didnt  mention the banks actions to 
the administrator  as part of the reason why the business  came to an end. And at the time the 
administrators statement was prepared, the directors didnt know that the IRHP had been 
mis-sold  the IRHP review came much later. 
Ref: DRN27161126my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Im sorry to tell Mr and Mrs S that Ive come to the same conclusions  
as the adjudicator and for largely the same  reasons.
Theres been  extensive correspondence on this case.  Id like to assure Mr and Mrs S and the bank 
that Ive looked at all the arguments and evidence  with care. In this decision Ill concentrate on the key 
arguments and evidence that are material  to my determination  of the complaint.
Because the issue of the mis-sale has already been resolved between the two parties, the starting 
point of my decision is that Mr and Mrs S shouldnt have had the IRHP. I wont be re-opening that 
issue.
consequential losses
I need to look at whether HSBCs failures  actually caused the consequential  losses.  And if they did, I 
also need to ask whether its fair to hold the bank responsible for the losses.  To do this, Id need to 
ask whether the bank could reasonably foresee that its failures would  result in losses like these. In 
other words, Id need to be satisfied the losses werent too remote  from the banks failings.
Its important to note that this complaint has been brought by Mr and Mrs S, not by T. In this decision 
Im therefore  determining  whether the bank should be held responsible for the partners losses,  rather  
than the companys losses. Mr and Mrs Ss claim is that, as a result of the mis-sale of the IRHP,  they 
lost the company theyd owned. The IRHP was sold to the partners and not the company, but they 
made drawings on the company to pay the IRHP costs. If the IRHP hadnt existed,  then those  costs 
wouldnt have been taken from the company and it would therefore have  had the money for its 
business. Mr and Mrs S say that if that cash had stayed in the company, then T wouldnt have  been 
referred to the SSU and wouldnt have gone into liquidation. They therefore  argue  that if they hadnt 
had the IRHP,  they wouldnt  have lost their company.
Mr and Mrs S also say they suffered losses because they were  pressured to abandon their own 
development project and sell the property, as a result of the company  referral to the SSU.
Mr and Mrs Ss losses  from the liquidation of their company
Without the IRHP, Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have had to pay the IRHP costs,  which were  ultimately 
borne by T. So its likely  that, without  the IRHP, the company would have been  correspondingly better 
off. What I have to decide is (a) whether or not the bank, in those  circumstances, would  have still 
referred T to the SSU,  and (b) whether  or not the company  would still have gone into administration  
and liquidation.
Its not possible  to tell exactly what would have happened without the IRHP payments, so I have to 
base my decision  on whats  most likely to have happened, taking into account all the circumstances  of 
the case.
The partners say the IRHP  costs in the accounting year to the end of December  2009 were  around 
£26,000, though the bank says they were £22,862. I dont think  the difference between these  two 
amounts would be material  to the outcome, so Ive considered the effect  of an amount in the region of 
£25,000. Having done that, I think its likely that HSBC would still have issued  the letter  of concern in 
May 2010 and transferred T to the SSU, even if the draft 2009 accounts  had shown a better profit  and 
loss position by about  £25,000. Ill explain  why.
HSBCs letter in May 2010  listed seven points of concern,  of which the losses in the draft accounts 
were only one. In summary,  the banks other concerns were:
Ref: DRN27161127Ts overdraft appeared to have been used to fund losses and directors withdrawals.  Over the 
previous six months, the average balance  had been over £90,000 overdrawn, with hardcore 
borrowing of about £70,000.
Ts bank account indicated  that insufficient cash was being  generated by the company  to fully 
meet business  commitments  and the partners personal  drawing requirements. HSBC  
calculated that the partners needed to withdraw about £100,000 annually tax-paid from the 
business to cover their mortgages,  loans, credit card and consumer loan commitments, 
school fees, insurance and utility  costs.  A £40,000 surplus from the sale of a property had 
been retained the previous  year,  but had since been used, the bank believed, to cover 
ongoing personal costs.
At 31 December 2009, T had a negative tangible net worth  of £239,900.
T hadnt provided financial information  in a timely manner. The bank  acknowledged that the 
period had been changed from monthly to quarterly, but stressed that figures  were still 
required within 30 days of the end of the period. As a result, T was in breach of the overdraft  
facilitys terms and conditions.
There was inadequate  day-to-day financial  control within the business. The bank was 
concerned that Ts systems meant that not all of the ledger entries from March  2010 had been 
passed and, even though it was seven weeks beyond the quarter end, Ts accountants hadnt 
been able to begin  the preparation of management  accounts.
The bank was concerned about falling security cover,  given that property values had fallen 
since the assets  were  acquired.
I should  stress here that Im not endorsing HSBCs assessment of these aspects of Ts and the 
partners affairs in 2010. Nor am I challenging  it. Its not my role here to second-guess  the banks  
assessment, or to say whether the banks  analysis of the facts was right or wrong.  The complaint Im 
considering here isnt about how HSBC conducted its assessment of Ts or the partners finances in 
2010  rather, its about the impact of the partners  IRHP  payments on that assessment. HSBCs  
letter described  the situation as the bank saw it at the time. My role is only to decide what would have 
been different  in the absence of the partners  IRHP. 
Several of the problems listed by the bank would  have been less severe in the absence of the IRHP 
payments. Without the IRHP, its likely that the overdraft  would have been lower, and the figures  for 
the negative net worth and its profit and loss account would have been better.  But the financial 
challenges described  in the letter were on such a scale that the bank would still have had serious  
concerns even if T hadnt  paid the IRHP costs.  And the banks other concerns   about  accounting 
information, financial control and security cover  were all serious and theres  no reason  to believe the 
IRHP would have made any difference to them.
For these  reasons, I dont think HSBC would  have  acted differently in the summer  of 2010 if the IRHP 
hadnt existed. I think it would still have issued the letter of concern  and made the referral  to the SSU.  
Ive come to the same conclusion regarding the administration and liquidation. The net liabilities 
shown in administrators and liquidators  reports substantially exceeded the £68,000 paid out to the 
IRHP. The total owed by T to its creditors was estimated  to exceed £350,000 and the actual claims 
submitted to the liquidator were over £129,000. 
The partners say T owed them £107,000. But theyve also said they didnt submit a claim as a 
creditor. That means  the deficit reported by the administrator  and liquidator didnt include the 
£107,000, which should therefore be added to the figures in the reports in order to give a more 
accurate picture of how much T owed  its creditors including the partners.
Ref: DRN27161128Whether or not the partners £107,000 is added, the amount that T owed its creditors far exceeded  
the total IRHP payments.  Even without  burden  of the partners IRHP, I dont think the companys 
situation would have been recoverable. So I cant say that the IRHP caused T to go into liquidation.
The partners say the failure of the business was partly caused by the personal strain they suffered as 
a result of the IRHP payments. Ive no doubt that the IRHP payments contributed to Mr and Mrs Ss 
worries but Im not persuaded that the bank should therefore be held responsible  for Ts business 
failure. For reasons Ive given above, I think  the company faced other financial difficulties that were  
more damaging than the demands of the IRHP payments.
Mr and Mrs Ss losses  from the abandoned development project
Mr and Mrs S say the referral to the SSU led to the partners being  forced to sell the property, causing  
them to lose out on the expected development profit. The bank has argued that its concerns about the 
property development project were contemporaneous with, but not caused by, the customers being  
referred to SSU. HSBC points to concerns  it already had about  the condition of the property. Its May 
2010 letter referred  to the derelict  state  of the property and to the fall in its value. 
I think  the bank would have  continued to be concerned  about  the development  project  and about  
the other problems with the partners and Ts finances  even if there hadnt been  a referral  to the 
SSU, so I cant say the evidence shows that the referral  specifically caused the sale of the property.
In any event, Ive already  concluded that the referral  to the SSU wasnt caused by the IRHP 
payments. So even  if I were to say that the sale of the property was a consequence  of the SSU 
referral (which, to be clear,  Im not saying), it wouldnt establish a causal link between  the IRHP and 
the sale of the property.
For these  reasons, I dont find that the mis-sale of the IRHP caused the sale of the development  
property or any losses that the partners suffered from the sale.
summing up
HSBC has offered to pay £3,000 plus interest for higher arrangement, renewal and management fees. 
Having considered  the partners claim  regarding the referrals to the SSU, the liquidation of T and the 
abandoned property development project, Ive provisionally  concluded that bank doesnt need to offer 
any further compensation for consequential losses.
I realise that Mr and Mrs S will be very disappointed by my decision and I understand the strength of 
their feelings  about the complaint. But in my view the mis-sale of the IRHP wasnt responsible for the 
consequential losses claimed by the partners.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im not minded to require HSBC UK Bank Plc to offer any further 
compensation for consequential losses arising from the mis-sale of the IRHP.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2716112