K820x#14complaint
Miss K, who is representing  the estate of the late Mr K, is unhappy with the way 
The Protection Specialist Limited  (Protection Specialist)  dealt  with payment protection  
insurance (PPI) claims on behalf of her late father. 
background
Miss K instructed Protection  Specialist to deal with PPI claims on behalf of her late father, 
Mr K, against Lender B and Lender  C. The terms and conditions explained that Protection 
Specialist would charge 24% inclusive  of VAT for a reasonable offer of compense 
[received] from the lender.
Lender B
Miss K signed a letter of authority in respect  of loan account ending  549 in October 2018. On 
26 October, Protection  Specialist sent the estates claim to Lender  B.
In November, Lender B wrote to Miss K and Protection Specialist  saying  the late Mr Ks 
address couldnt  be verified. Protection Specialist informed Lender B that Mr K had passed 
away, and enclosed a copy  of the death certificate.
Miss K also contacted  Lender B to provide the verification needed to progress her claim. 
Lender B contacted Protection  Specialist in December  asking for further  details from Miss K 
to confirm her authority  to bring the claim. 
In January 2019 Protection Specialist drafted a letter of authority specific  to Miss K bringing  
the complaint  as an executor. In February 2019 Lender B made an offer on the PPI claim. 
Protection Specialist  sent their success fee invoice to Miss K. 
Lender C
Miss K signed a letter of authority in respect  of credit card account ending 0423,  and loan 
accounts ending  946 and 147 in October  2018.  
The letter of authority stated THE INFORMATION BELOW  IS TO IDENTIFY THE 
CUSTOMER. ADDITIONAL ACCOUNTS  IDENTIFIED BY YOUR LENDER  USING THIS 
AUTHORITY ARE ALSO COVERED BY THIS DOCUMENT. It also explained We will be 
investigating all lines of credit from companies  that may now be trading under a different 
brand name. Please  tell us immediately if there are any companies or policies that you do 
not want us to investigate. 
On 30 October Protection Specialist sent the estates claim to Lender C. In December 2018 
Lender C advised that it required  a certified  or original copy  of the will. It was also recorded 
that authority  from the additional  executor, would need to be provided  to Lender C. 
In February 2019  Miss K complained to Protection  Specialist about the time it was taking to 
progress her claim. In March Lender  C told Protection Specialist that it didnt have authority 
on the claim, so Lender C wouldnt be able to provide any further information on the claim. 
Lender C subsequently wrote  to Miss K directly saying that the claim was successful, and 
provided details  of four loan accounts and a credit card which it would be paying 
Ref: DRN27420202compensation for. When Protection Specialist was made aware of this, it invoiced Miss K for 
its success fee.  
Miss K complained to Protection Specialist  about  its lack of work on her claim,  and that shed 
had to do most of the chasing  with Lender C. Miss K also didnt think it was fair that 
Protection Specialist  had charged its success fee on accounts it hadnt  been asked to look 
into, and that it kept asking for details of another executor when this wasnt  required. 
Protection Specialist  responded  to Miss Ks complaint saying a letter of authority from the 
additional executor was requested because Lender  C hadnt  responded to the complaint. 
Protection Specialist  also said that it had authority over all the accounts  with Lender C, and 
so its invoice was due for all accounts compensation had been paid for. 
Miss K was unhappy  with this response and referred  her complaint to this service for 
investigation. The investigator found that Protection Specialist couldve handled the claim 
better. However  the investigator also explained that as Miss K was bringing  the complaint as 
an executor, we wouldnt award  compensation for the upset  shed experienced because  we 
can only award compensation  to the complainant (in this case, the estate). Miss K wasnt 
happy with this response and requested decision  by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
request for additional executors authority
Lender B
Ive seen that Lender B wasnt able to verify  details  for the late Mr K. Protection  Specialist 
arranged to send  a copy of the death certificate,  however Lender B required Miss K to verify  
these details directly. Although Miss K feels that Protection Specialist didnt handle  her claim 
properly, I can see that they did try to respond  to Lender Bs queries, however it was 
Lenders Bs requirement  for Miss K to contact it directly. So I cant  say Protection Specialist 
did anything wrong  here.  
It looks like Lender B contacted Protection Specialist asking for more details about  the 
executor bringing  the complaint. Protection  Specialist  created  a letter  of authority specific  to 
Miss Ks circumstances, at the request of Lender  B. Shortly  after this, the claim was 
successful. Having considered whats happened, I think Protection Specialists handling of 
this claim was fair. 
Lender C
Protection Specialist  says that Lender  C asked Miss K to provide additional evidence of the 
executors listed on the will. Miss K feels strongly that this wasnt  required because her claim 
was paid by Lender  C without  her having  to contact the additional executor. 
Lender C requested  details of the executor from Protection Specialist in December 2018.  
This information was provided to Lender  C by both Protection Specialist and Miss K. 
However it looks like Lender  C subsequently stopped  engaging  with Protection Specialists 
Ref: DRN27420203request for updates on the claim.  Because of this, Protection Specialist asked Miss K to 
provide a letter of authority for the additional executor listed  on the will. 
I agree  that the claim couldve been handled  more efficiently. Protection Specialist couldve 
taken a more  proactive  approach at the start in finding out about Lender Cs requirements  for 
an executor bringing  a complaint. This couldve prevented the distress caused to Miss K in 
having to wait for a bespoke letter of authority to be sent to her for the additional executor. 
As Miss K was acting as an executor on the claim,  I agree with the investigators findings  
that we wouldnt  be able to award  compensation for the distress she suffered in having to 
deal with the claim. The reason for this is because the complainant  in this case  is the estate. 
We can only award compensation  for the distress experienced by a complainant.  
I agree  things may have progressed sooner if Protection Specialist had clarified  what was 
required at the start of the process. But I cant see there has been an impact on the estate 
because of what went wrong. Because of this I wont be recommending  any compensation 
for this complaint.  
authority over all successful accounts
Ive seen that when Miss K instructed Protection Specialist, this authority was also for 
ADDITIONAL ACCOUNTS IDENTIFIED BY [her] LENDER. 
I cant see that Miss K told Protection  Specialist at any point during the process that she 
didnt want it to represent her on specific accounts  with Lender C. So it think  its fair that 
Protection Specialist  charges its success fee for the accounts where PPI was identified,  and 
compensation was paid out for. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2742020