K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S are joint (general) trustees, alongside  a third (independent and corporate) 
trustee, of their Pension Scheme (PS). Mr and Mrs S say their online access to the PS 
investment account  stopped around May 2018  when Cofunds Limited (Cofunds)  changed 
its investment platform. They say the lack of access has affected their investment decisions.
background 
Both parties  have referred to a secondary complaint matter  about a particular investment 
sale and cash withdrawal  event(s)   which, they say, has been settled. The surviving 
complaint issue is about online access to the PS account as summarised  above. 
Cofunds says the account  is held as a trustee account and, under the relevant terms, 
individuals are unable  to access it online for that reason. At the time of its complaint 
response it said it was exploring  an enhancement to the platform  in this respect;  that, until 
then, Mr and Mrs Ss Independent Financial  Adviser (IFA) could access  the account on their 
behalf; and that the platform permits access by advisers into trustee  accounts.  Mr and Mrs S 
say this arrangement  conflicted with their previous experience and with information  on 
Cofunds website,  which led them  to expect continued direct access to the account.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and accepted Cofunds point about the 
restriction of access to the IFA only, given that the account is a trustee account, but he noted 
communication problems  that Mr and Mrs S had faced in the matter.  He proposed a 
payment of £100  for the trouble and upset caused  to them in this respect and Cofunds 
agreed to make the payment.  
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the proposal.  They asserted that the underlying online access  
issue should be addressed further  and that the amount proposed does not adequately reflect 
the trouble and upset they were  caused.
The investigator did not change his view.  He looked further into the matter and, in the main,  
he said new terms (for the PS account) were applicable with the introduction of the new 
platform in 2018;  that the account was set up in the name of the third trustee, which was the 
corporate administrator  for the PS; that the new terms (dated April 2018) included a 
provision which said online access to an account  is not given to a corporate body; and that 
this further supports his view on the complaint.
Mr and Mrs S retained their disagreement  with the investigators view and the matter was 
referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold Mr and 
Mrs S substantive complaint, but they are invited  to reconsider the £100  payment that has 
been agreed/offered by Cofunds.
The issue  in dispute is about online access to the PS account. The investment sale and 
cash withdrawal matter  has been  resolved and does not appear to require this services 
treatment. 
Ref: DRN24338272Available evidence  shows that arrangements related to Cofunds accounts changed in 2018 
as a change to its investment platform was implemented. The changes  were prompted by 
the incoming of the new platform  provider firm and the new terms and conditions  for the 
accounts in April that year reflected this background  with express notice within  its 
introduction that the new terms constituted  a variation  to any terms and conditions  
[account holders]  had with Cofunds  I have not seen evidence  that the new terms and 
conditions document  was inaccessible  to the PS trustees at the time. On balance,  it is 
reasonable to conclude  that they were aware,  or ought reasonably  to have been aware, of it.
The PS account  with Cofunds appears to have been in the third trustees name  (as the 
primary account holder).  It was/is a corporate entity and the Scheme Administrator for the 
PS. There is a clause  (Section A, paragraph 3.5) in the new terms for the account which 
says online  or transactional account  access will only be given to one account holder (the 
primary account holder)  in a joint account.  However,  the next clause (paragraph  3.6) 
expressly excludes corporate  bodies  from such access. The result  was that Mr and Mrs S 
were not in a position to have direct  online access to the account  because neither of them 
was the primary account holder; and the third trustee also lacked  such  access because  it 
was a corporate body.
The balance of evidence  supports the following conclusions:
The previous  account arrangement that Mr and Mrs S have  referred to, in which  they 
had direct access to the PS account,  changed because  of the introduction  of the new 
platform (and new terms and conditions) in 2018.
They were not in a position to continue having  such access thereafter because of the 
new terms and conditions and because neither of them  was a primary account 
holder. In addition,  evidence  from Cofunds  is that they would not have had such 
individual access at the time given that the PS account was a trustee account.
In the above  circumstances,  I do not consider that there is ground to uphold their 
substantive complaint.  However,  I note Mr S references to the trouble  and upset 
caused to him and Mrs S by communication problems he/they faced in pursuit  of a 
resolution to the matter.  I also note that in the absence of those communication 
problems it would  have  remained  the case that they were  not in a position  to have 
direct online  access to the PS account  (for the reasons  given above). In this context, 
I do not consider  that the £100 proposal   for trouble and upset  is unfair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs S main complaint but I invite them  
to reconsider the settlement  for trouble and upset  that has been  suggested to them.  Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2433827