K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that someone  opened  an account with Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited and then used it to pay for a television. He says it wasnt  him, but that Shop Direct is 
seeking payment  from him.
background
Someone opened  a Shop  Direct account in Mr Ss name, and using his address, at the end 
of May 2018. 
A couple of days later the account  was used to place an order  for a television, with 
instructions to deliver it to a different address from the account address. Shop Direct 
telephoned Mr S  using the contact number that had provided  when the account  was 
opened  to check the delivery address. The person who answered confirmed that the 
instructions were correct  and that the address was his sisters. Shop Direct believes it was 
speaking to Mr S, but Mr S says it wasnt him. 
After he received further communication about  the account, Mr S contacted Shop Direct. 
When he was told that a television had been ordered and delivered,  he said he hadnt 
opened the account and hadnt ordered the television. The delivery  had been  addressed  to 
someone with his surname, but Shop Direct  had also checked  the electoral roll and linked 
the address to a Ms Q. Mr S said that nobody in his family had the initial that Shop Direct 
had provided and that he didnt know anybody called Ms Q. 
Shop Direct also contacted the delivery address and left a letter.  Someone  later called 
saying that theyd taken delivery of the television  for Mr S and that he had collected  it later 
the same  day. 
Shop Direct concluded that Mr S had in fact opened the account, ordered the television and 
received it. It didnt agree to write off the debt. 
Mr S referred the case to this service and one of our investigators  considered  it. She agreed 
with Shop Direct that Mr S probably  was responsible for the account  and had bought the 
television. She didnt  recommend that Shop  Direct write off the debt. Mr S asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator. 
I accept that its possible  for fraudsters  to imitate individuals by using their personal  data to 
open credit  accounts  of the type involved here.  But I dont think  thats what  happened in this 
case. 
The questions that were asked when Shop Direct checked the delivery address could 
probably have  been  answered  by someone with a little information  about Mr S  although I 
do note that the answers were given confidently  by someone who sounded a lot like Mr S. 
However, had the television  been  delivered to someone unconnected  to Mr S, I think  it 
unlikely they would have voluntarily contacted Shop Direct.
Ref: DRN24364222Perhaps even  more surprising though is Mr Ss response when Shop Direct told him that it 
had linked the address to Ms Q, through  the electoral register.  He said he didnt know 
anyone of that name, but someone with that name then represented him in bringing this 
complaint. They described themselves as Mr Ss cousin; its not clear why she would have 
done that if she was a mere acquaintance. Mr S later said she was a family friend. Then, in 
response to the investigators view, he said that it was a fairly  common name  suggesting it 
wasnt unusual that he knew  someone with that name. In fact, the name doesnt appear to 
be as common as Mr S suggests. But, even  if it were,  the natural response  to Shop Directs 
question wouldnt be to deny knowing  anyone  that name; it would be for Mr S to say that he 
did know someone with that name, but that its very common.          
In conclusion, I think that Mr S knew about  the account and the order  and that he received it. 
It wouldnt therefore be fair to require  Shop  Direct to write off the debt.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept  or reject  my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2436422