K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  is about unsuitable investment advice from Johnston  Campbell 
Ltd. (JC) in 2018.
background
Our jurisdiction to consider the merits of the complaint  was first addressed.  In this respect, 
an ombudsman summarised  the complaint issues as follows:
JCs recommendation to Mrs W to invest in an investment  bond  under a 
Discretionary Trust.
JCs recommendation to Mr and Mrs W to invest in an Alternative Investment Market  
(AIM) Individual Savings Account (ISA).
JCs recommendation to Mr and Mrs W to invest in the Foresight Accelerated 
Inheritance Tax Solution (the Foresight  fund).
JCs recommendation of a Time Corporate Trading Company (CTC) investment  in 
the name of Mr and Mrs Ws property company (the property company). 
The ombudsman concluded that we have jurisdiction to consider the complaint, based on the 
above issues, with Mr and Mrs W standing as the complainants for all of the issues  
(including the issue related to the property company). He also said the property company  
could be an eligible complainant in its own right. The first issue  listed above  does not 
appear, or no longer  appears,  to be a part of the complaint.
One of our investigators  conducted a detailed  investigation into the complaint, based  on the 
remit set by the ombudsmans jurisdiction decision. He issued an equally detailed view in 
which he concluded that the complaint should  not be upheld and in which  he referred,  in the 
main, to the following:
Evidence from JC that Mr and Mrs W engaged  it to provide specialist tax planning  
advice in 2018; that the agreed initial  fee was 3% of their assets and ongoing  level 3 
fees of 1% (amounting to £166.66 per month); and that the suitability letter given to 
them in March 2018 referred  to their objectives to mitigate inheritance tax (IHT)  and 
to ensure their beneficiaries received the maximum estate available, to 
recommendations in this respect,  to IHT mitigation  advice they declined  in 2013, to a 
potential £3.6 million  IHT liability and to Business  Property Relief (BPR) advice.  
The recommendations, based on a two years IHT relief  strategy,  were  to invest 
£220,000 in M&D investments; to invest £650,000  in the Foresight fund;  to invest 
£3.5 million, in the name of the property company, in the Time CTC fund; and to 
transfer their £80,000 ISAs into a Downing AIM ISA. The recommendations detailed 
all the risks and charges  associated  to the investments. All of the funds  were  
described as having  high risks and the suitability letter described Mr and Mrs Ws 
need to undertake such high risks in order to achieve the tax benefits they sought. It 
also referred to the recommendations  being  significantly higher risk  at portfolio 5 
out of 5 portfolios  run by JC  including the risks of illiquidity  and loss of capital.
The advice included the statement that even if all of the capital  invested  in the Time 
CTC fund was lost there would be a saving of £1.4 million (40%  of £3.5 million) in 
inheritance tax  reducing Mr and Mrs Ws potential IHT liability  upon their deaths to 
around £2.2 million; and that an immediate £200,000 IHT benefit  arises from the 
Foresight fund investment given  that the integral  life policy  within the fund would pay 
any IHT due in the first two years before the IHT benefits arising  from the funds BPR 
Ref: DRN25306662status becomes  effective  (after two years). JC said relevant  context was that the 
immediate IHT benefit from the Foresight fund investment more than covered all fees 
associated with its advice.
The investigator then made the following main findings in terms of merit:
In 2018 Mr and Mrs W had a large  estate  and an estimated IHT liability  of £3.6 million  
to address. Previously,  in 2013, JC had given them IHT mitigation advice based on 
gifting their assets, which they declined to do at the time and which  they did not want 
to do in 2018. The IHT liability was the key issue, this was the context in which JCs 
advice in 2018 was provided and Mr and Mrs Ws reluctance to gift their assets 
limited the scope of its advice.
Another element  that limited the scope of JCs advice was that Mr and Mrs Ws 
application(s) for a Whole of Life Policy  in 2018  was declined  by relevant life offices 
for health reasons.
JC therefore looked into potential solutions  for the IHT liability issue within the BPR 
scheme and the AIM ISA options that were permissible under tax regulations  with 
the relevant two years minimum investment period. JCs recommendations were 
based on these  alternatives, were based  on investments being  made  individually  and 
through the property company and were advised  as higher risk options.
Whilst Mr and Mrs W say their usual risk profile was medium   as had been  the 
case for past investments  this was not relevant to the specialist  tax mitigation 
advice they required  in 2018  and in relation to a significant potential IHT liability for 
their large estate. This was distinct from the risk profile they had for general 
investments. It is noted that Mr and Mrs W consider they were misled when JC said 
they would  be no worse off by following  its recommendation. However,  treatment of 
the complaint  relates to suitability of JCs advice, not performance, and there were 
warnings about the high risk nature of the advice.  Given the limited scope of JCs 
advice  following  the exclusions of the gifting and life policy options  the need  to 
undertake a high risk strategy for the IHT mitigation objective was unavoidable. This 
was presented to, explained to and agreed  by Mr and Mrs W around the time of 
advice. Overall, JCs advice to them was not unsuitable.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with this outcome and made the following main points:
JC advised them that the Time CTC fund was relatively low risk and that the property 
company would qualify for the BPR scheme. The investment  was high risk and they 
have since learnt  that the property company  being an investment company and not 
a trading company  does not qualify for the BPR scheme,  neither did the money  
invested. In addition, the investment would  not have qualified for the scheme  
because it was not over 50% the value  of the property company.
They have paid a significant amount in fees for specialist tax planning  but saved zero 
in tax. In addition, they were advised to invest risk-free cash  of £3.5 million into a 
very high risk Time CTC for no apparent benefit.
What they were told by JCs adviser in person conflicts with what  is presented  in the 
advice documents.  They consider they were misled,  as they took the adviser at his 
word and proceeded on that basis.
They did not actively seek IHT advice, but they accept that when they met the 
adviser  and discussed inheritance  tax, [they]  told the adviser  that [they] did not 
want [their] family to be in a position where physical property had to be sold on death  
due to inheritance  tax. They feel they were  pushed into the IHT related investments 
in order to generate  revenue for JC and that had they understood the investments 
Ref: DRN25306663(and their risks)  prior to making them they would have done nothing. JCs assurance 
to them  that they would  be no worse  off than if they did nothing  shows  they were 
misled.
In response, JC referred to its detailed March  2018 suitability letter  (to Mr and Mrs W) in 
which it said:
The higher  risk nature of the recommendations (and each recommendation) was 
clearly confirmed and explained to Mr and Mrs W. The same applies to the charges 
associated with each  product that was recommended,  a breakdown  of those charges 
was also explained  to them.
Express reference was made  to the estimated IHT liability  of £3.6 million and to its 
meeting with Mr and Mrs W, their son and their solicitor on 16 February  2018.
Express reference was made  to the BPR tax relief being  available after holding  
shares in a trading business for a minimum of two years . [JCs emphasis]
Express reference was also made  to the Time CTC working on the basis  of capital 
being  invested into qualifying trading companies . [JCs emphasis]
JC also said the discovery document on which its suitability letter  was based was checked  
and countersigned by Mr and Mrs W, and that it met with them and their solicitor on 16 April 
2018 (around six weeks after issuing the suitability letter)  to discuss the recommendations. 
At the meeting, it says,  they agreed  with the suitability letter, confirmed they had been  given 
adequate time to consider  it and agreed to proceed  with the recommended  investments.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold the 
complaint and I have  reached broadly the same  findings  as those (as summarised above) 
reached by the investigator.
Overall, the balance of available  evidence  does not support  the claims made by 
Mr and Mrs W in terms of suitability of the advice they (and the property  company) received 
from JC. Importantly,  their engagement with JC appears to have been  documented at the 
main or key points. There does not appear to be evidence that Mr and/or Mrs W raised 
objections at the time with regards to documentation  that recorded  their circumstances, the 
implication of the 2013 advice, the IHT mitigation  objective, the options that were excluded, 
the high risk warnings  associated with the recommended products,  the implication that they 
agreed to take a high risk approach for the benefit of potential IHT savings and the workings 
of the recommended  products. 
In this context, and whilst I do not completely dismiss what  Mr and Mrs W now say about 
these matters, the balance of available evidence supports the following conclusions:
Mr and Mrs W sought IHT mitigation advice. They  accept that they met the adviser  
 and discussed inheritance tax, [they]  told the adviser that [they] did not want  
[their] family to be in a position  where  physical  property had to be sold on death due 
to inheritance tax. This describes  a request for IHT mitigation advice. That request 
was reflected in the advice they received  from JC in 2013 and in 2018. The 2013 
document is headed, in bold, INHERITANCE TAX MITIGATION  
Ref: DRN25306664RECOMMENDATION  and the 2018  document begins with description of their IHT 
planning needs and reference to their two objectives  as being  Mitigate Inheritance 
Tax due on your estate  and Ensure  your beneficiaries receive the maximum estate  
available. It is arguably inconceivable that Mr and Mrs W would not have  objected  to 
these contents  at the time if they did not actively seek IHT advice.
The 2013 document shows that the IHT mitigation issue related to a potential  IHT 
liability of between  £3.2 million and £3.7 million.  The 2018 document  refers back to 
the 2013 IHT mitigation advice and confirms that Mr and Mrs W decided not to 
proceed with it at the time. It also refers  to further advice JC gave them  in 2017 to 
apply for a whole  of life policy. They followed that advice but the document  confirms 
that their application was declined, for health reasons, by the life offices  it was 
submitted to. The document says the potential IHT liability stood at around £3.6 
million at the time, that Mr and Mrs W needed to address  it and that they were limited 
to options that did not require medical underwriting.  It also confirms  that JCs 
recommendations were  based  on the documentation presented and discussed during 
the meeting of 16 February 2018.
The 2018 document is a detailed document, presented in an accessible manner and 
with explanations of its contents. There is a section in which Mr and Mrs Ws assets  
and potential IHT liability  are calculated; there is a section  in which,  as JC says, each 
of the three disputed  recommendations is summarised and then a section in which 
each is explained  in detail (including fee arrangements for each and warnings for 
each and all that they are high risk investments, including the risks of loss of capital  
and illiquidity);  with regards to the Time CTC fund there is notice that the relevant tax 
relief applies  to a trading business  that holds more  than 20% in cash  with that cash  
element accounting  for more than 50% of the business value,  and notice that JC is 
not in a position to judge  whether or not the property company would be treated as a 
trading business  by HMRC; there is a section in which  Mr and Mrs Ws potential  IHT 
savings in the course of two years was calculated  at around £1.8 million; there is a 
further section, covering  around two pages,  repeating and summarising the relevant 
investment risks considerations and confirming  that Mr and Mrs W had discussed 
and agreed them  with JC; it is in this section  that JC states the recommendations are 
at the highest  risk level of their model portfolios, that Mr and Mrs Ws position was 
that £3.5 million was essentially  being  held on cash for the Tax Man  and that they 
needed to be prepared to lose some or all of that if the recommended investments 
failed; the document concludes with appendices that include IHT benefits illustrations 
for the Foresight fund and Time CTC investments.
Mr and Mrs W did not dispute  the suitability letter in 2018. The implication that arises  
is that its contents are a reliable.  This is supported  by the contents  of other related 
documents (such as the discovery  document and the assets  and IHT analysis related 
documents). The investments that were executed were  consistent with the 
recommendations made  in the letter. Available  evidence also shows that the same 
can be said about the fee arrangements.
Overall and on balance, Mr and Mrs W appear to have adopted a high risk approach 
towards their IHT mitigation objective(s) as a special  measure  unrelated  to what 
their usual  risk profile was or might  have been for their general  investments. The IHT 
issue appears to have been  unresolved in 2013  and to have been more pressing in 
2018. The suitability  letter  does  not feature general investment advice, it features 
specific IHT mitigation advice. Their  options were  limited,  as described by the 
Ref: DRN25306665investigator, and in those circumstances I am not persuaded  that the 
recommendations made by JC were unsuitable. I do not suggest  that they were the 
most suitable, but the point is that they were  not required  to be. JCs obligation was 
to give suitable  advice  not the most suitable  advice. No erroneous assumption was 
made about the status of the property company, the suitability letter warned that JC 
could not judge if HMRC  would treat it as a trading business. The entire venture, for 
all of the recommendations, was high in risk so this was part of the associated  risks. 
This service does not normally  consider  matters  of performance  in isolation and, like 
the investigator, I have not done that. In terms of suitability  of JCs advice to 
Mr and Mrs W and in terms of their awareness of (and agreement with)  information 
about the advice and about the recommended investments,  I consider  that the advice 
was not unsuitable; that it did not mismatch Mr and Mrs Ws overall joint profile 
(including their status in relation to the property company); that it did not mismatch 
their risk profile  for their specific  IHT mitigation  purpose; that it did not mismatch  their 
objective(s); and that they were made  aware of (and, it appears, agreed  with) all the 
information relevant  to the recommended investments.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my 
decision before  20 January  2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2530666