K820x#14complaint
Mr K is one of three directors  of C, a limited company.  He complains, on behalf  of the 
company, that a cheque he wrote as a deposit  for a house bought at auction was not paid by 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
background
Mr K opened  a business account with NatWest  to handle transactions for C - a new property 
development business. And he deposited substantial  funds in this account.  The account was 
set up so that two of Cs three directors would have  to sign cheques.  The first cheques he 
wrote from the account were for a deposit  on a house purchased  at auction and a fee to the 
auction house.
Mr K says he was contacted by the auction house  a few days after the auction saying the 
£33,000 cheque  hed used for the deposit was unpaid. And it had been marked  refer to 
drawer. Mr K feels this implied there  were insufficient funds in Cs account  which  he says 
was not the case. Mr K tells us the auction house  then advised  him that the clients selling 
the house were  rescinding the contract so the house  purchase  would not proceed.
Mr K also advises that the cheque for the fee to the auction house for £1,000  was paid.  And 
this had been signed by himself and a co-director  at the same time as the cheque  for the 
deposit. He tells us that NatWest should  have contacted him if there were any issues with 
the cheque rather  than refusing to pay one but not the other.
Mr K tells us that as a result of the cheque not being paid and the contract being rescinded  
by the seller C has lost an opportunity to make  a profit on the property which he estimates as 
being a minimum of £85,000. Mr K is also concerned that C may be sued by the seller for 
breach of contract.
NatWest say the cheque was returned  unpaid due to inconsistencies in the signatures 
compared to their records. And it was an out of the ordinary transaction.  They say the 
processing team who carried out the security  checks tried to contact the Relationship 
Management team who look after C but couldnt get through to them.
NatWest also tell us that the wording on the letter  they sent to the auction  house saying 
refer to drawer is a standard  practice.  And means that the cheque  cannot simply be 
represented. They have  confirmed there  were  sufficient funds in Cs account  to cover the 
cheque amount. They have offered £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr K brought his complaint to this service and our investigators view was that NatWest  had 
considered the complaint fairly. He agreed that there was an inconsistency with the 
signatures and that NatWest had acted reasonably in following internal procedures  and 
returning the cheque.
Mr K remained unhappy  and asked for an ombudsman  to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN23533452I agree  with our investigators view and largely for the same reasons. I understand this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mr K.
NatWest tell us that the reason the cheque for £33,000 was highlighted by their processing 
team, and not the cheque  for £1,000, was because it was high value and out of character for 
the account. They say they have to be diligent.  And their process  for transactions that are 
out of character is to contact the relationship management team who are responsible  for 
contacting the customer  to verify  the payment, or provide their agreement to make the 
payment. 
The cheque processing team were unable to contact  the relationship management team  but 
NatWest have added that even if they had the cheques would not have been paid. This was 
because the account required two signatures and they would not call the customer when two 
signatures are required and there are inconsistencies with the signatures.  Ive looked  at the 
signatures on the cheques and those  held on file and am satisfied  there are inconsistencies. 
And I find it reasonable  for NatWest  to return the cheque to the payee rather than contact 
one signatory on the account when the issue relates  to inconsistencies  with signatures.
Mr K tells us that C lost an opportunity  to make a profit.  Hes shown us that when he bid on 
the property planning permission for extensions was pending. And since the auction the 
permission was granted. And hes said that even accounting for the cost of the schedule  of 
works and fees and charges hed have made  a profit of £85,000.  However, there is no 
guarantee of this profit. And it was the first property  Mr K had attempted to purchase for his 
new business.
Property purchase and development is not without risks. Theres no guarantee that a profit 
would have been made and it is possible to lose money, particularly at times when house 
prices are falling. Mr K says that the terminology refer to drawer had a profound effect on 
the vendor. But theres no guarantee that the vendors wouldnt have pulled out of the sale if 
the cheque had been returned for reasons  other than refer  to drawer. And the cheque 
could not be represented due to inconsistencies in the signatures.
At the time Mr K brought  the complaint to us hed not purchased  another  property  but he is 
free to do so and has the funds in place. And in effect C has been  delayed in making a 
potential profit rather than prevented from making  a profit. Mr K has been upset and 
frustrated by the cheque not having  been  paid but this does not prevent him from finding 
another property  to minimise the lost potential profit, or potentially  make a greater profit. So I 
find its not reasonable for Mr K to expect NatWest to pay C £85,000.  And I cant consider 
trouble and upset  caused to Mr K as the complaint is brought by C, not Mr K personally.
Mr K says hes concerned  that C might be sued by the vendor for breach of contract.  Given  it 
was the vendor that decided not to proceed  I think this is unlikely  to happen and Im not 
aware of any action having been threatened. Mr K might wish to consider legal guidance  for 
C in this regard.  
NatWest have offered  £100 compensation for the inconvenience thats been caused and, in 
the circumstances of this case I find this to be a fair offer.
Ref: DRN23533453my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking National Westminster Bank Plc to do any 
more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2353345