K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Valour Finance  Limited, trading as Savvy.co.uk, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr P took out a loan with Valour Finance in January 2017. He borrowed £2,000 and was 
scheduled to repay  it in 18 monthly  instalments of about £222. Mr P actually settled the loan 
in March 2017.
An adjudicator considered  Mr Ps complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr P didnt 
agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
Valour Finance needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. The relevant regulations,  which included the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys (FCA) consumer credit sourcebook  (CONC), were not 
prescriptive about  exactly what checks businesses like Valour Finance should  carry out.
what did Valour Finance do?
Valour Finance and Mr P spoke by phone to go over some aspects of his online  application.
Ive seen that Valour Finance obtained information from Mr P about his income, which it 
recorded as £2,124 per month.  Valour  Finance  has shown that this declared income passed 
its credit  checking process,  so it accepted  it as correct. Mr P also confirmed the income 
information he provided was correct during the phone call.
Valour Finance also obtained  information  about Mr Ps general monthly living  costs, 
including expenditure such as transport,  food, utilities and housing  expenses. Mr P told 
Valour Finance he was living with his family  and didnt pay rent or utility  bills. This monthly 
expenditure (which  didnt  include  credit  commitments) was modest, totalling about  £310.
Ref: DRN27302552Mr Ps credit  commitments were also discussed  during the phone  call. Mr P said some of the 
credit commitments  showing  on his credit file had already been  settled  (Valour Finance says 
it will still take them into account, as they were showing at the time). Mr P also told Valour 
Finance that hed recently used his overdrafts, which hadnt yet appeared on Valour 
Finances credit search.
There was some further discussion of a loan Mr P had recently settled, as well as his credit 
card usage.  Valour Finance had noted  that Mr P had taken out a loan in December 2016  and 
settled it in January  2017. It also noted  he had a credit card with a balance which  had rapidly 
increased. Mr P gave Valour Finance his explanations  for these  events.
Valour Finance ultimately decided to approve  the loan. It decided  that Mr Ps monthly 
income of £2,124 and his monthly  expenditure of £310 (for living costs) and £917 (for other 
credit commitments) left him with approximate disposable income of £897 per month.  It 
thought this was enough  to sustainably make the £222 instalments.
did Valour Finance do enough?
Ive thought carefully about whether Valour Finance carried out proportionate checks  in the 
circumstances of Mr Ps loan. On balance,  I think it did  Ill explain why.
I know Mr P feels strongly that Valour Finance didnt lend responsibly. He doesnt think  it did 
enough to verify his income and thinks it ought to have realised hed taken a lot of loans 
during 2016. He also mentioned that his tone during the phone call was uncomfortable   and 
that he was borrowing the money to spend  on gambling.
I dont think Valour Finance acted  unfairly by accepting Mr Ps declared monthly  income of 
£2,124. Ive seen the results of the credit checking/income  verification service  it used and 
Mr Ps declared income was deemed  to be accurate. I note that the figure  Mr P has given us 
now (£1,955) isnt really significantly different to what he declared, so it isnt surprising the 
credit check  didnt highlight a discrepancy. I also note that using the lower  figure wouldnt 
have suggested  the loan was unaffordable, given Mr Ps expenditure of around £1,227.
I understand why Mr P has raised  his other  debts as a significant issue.  And, having listened 
to the call, I can see what he means about  his tone.  I accept that at times Mr P is hesitant 
when answering  Valour Finances questions about the use of his previous loans. At one 
point during the call, Mr P suggests he wants to withdraw his application  because  Valour 
Finance was asking  too many  questions.
Mr P ultimately decided to progress  with the application and did answer  Valour Finances 
questions. The answers he gave were  not in my view unreasonable  to the extent 
Valour Finance shouldve sought  further  evidence of Mr Ps income and expenditure. Mr P 
and Valour Finance  had a reasonably detailed discussion about his credit commitments and 
Valour Finance took into account monthly credit commitments of over £900 before making its 
lending decision.  That figure doesnt seem unreasonable in light of the information on Mr Ps 
credit file.
So I think Valour Finance did enough  to take into account Mr Ps existing credit 
commitments. The discussion of his past commitments and recent use of credit  cards didnt 
highlight a harmful dependency on credit.
Ref: DRN27302553Im sorry  to hear that Mr P had what he calls a gambling habit. I dont doubt that this 
mustve been a difficult time for him. But Ive seen nothing to suggest Valour Finance was 
aware of this. And I dont think it had reason to ask Mr P for copies of his bank statements, 
so theres no reason  for me to say it ought to have reasonably been aware of this either.  For 
the same  reason, Valour Finance wouldnt be aware  of anything Mr P had borrowed from his 
family. 
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  think Valour  Finance acted irresponsibly when it 
lent to Mr P. So I am unable to uphold his complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Valour Finance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P. to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2730255