K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about the way Motorpoint Limited (trading as Motorpoint of Peterborough) 
brokered a hire purchase agreement.  
background 
Mr H acquired  a used car for around  £24,000  under a hire purchase agreement  in May 2017.  
The car was two years old and had covered around  11,000 miles. The agreement was for 
three years and included  a Guaranteed Future  Value  for the car of £12,596. Motorpoint 
brokered the agreement,  which  it calls a PCP/Boomerang  agreement.
Prior to acquiring the car, Mr H sold his previous  car to Motorpoint for £7,700  £200  of 
which he put towards his new agreement. 
Mr H tells us that when he acquired  the car, he let Motorpoint know that he liked to change  
his car every  12  18 months. He says the salesperson offered him an agreement where the 
required monthly payments would  cover the depreciation of the cars value. This would 
enable Mr H to come out of the agreement, at any time, without incurring a loss. Mr H says 
the salesperson  told him it would not be an issue for him to change his car for a newer 
model in a years  time. 
Around 10 months after entering into the agreement, Mr H spoke to Motorpoint to discuss his 
options. He found out that he was around  £5,000 in negative equity because the offer he 
received for his car was around £5,000 less than what he needed to pay off the agreement 
for it. Mr H says the finance manager  at Motorpoint agreed with him that the agreement  he 
had was not suitable for his requirements. But the finance manager wasnt  able to offer 
anything that met Mr Hs needs so he decided to complain. He thought the original sales  
advisor had sold the PCP/Boomerang agreement  as opposed  to something more suitable  
because he either  didnt understand how it worked,  or he wanted  to maximise his 
commission. 
Motorpoint responded and said the signed  product recommendation  indicated Mr H would be 
keeping the car for around  18 months. It said the three-year PCP/Boomerang agreement  
suited Mr Hs budget.  Motorpoint also said the agreement  could  be settled at any time, and 
that it couldnt find evidence Mr H was told the monthly payment would cover the 
depreciation of the car. Finally, Motorpoint said that at the time of the complaint,  Mr H had 
made nine payments and had only paid a £200  deposit, so it would have been unlikely he 
would have been in an equity situation or that he could have walked away  without owing 
anything. 
Mr H didnt agree with the response so complained to our service. He wanted  to be put back  
into the position he would have been in had he not acquired the car under the 
PCP/Boomerang agreement. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and upheld it in part. He didnt think Motorpoint  
brokered the PCP/Boomerang agreement to maximise its commission. But he didnt think  
Motorpoint adequately explained the agreement to Mr H. Our adjudicator  recommended 
Motorpoint pay Mr H £250 compensation. 
Mr H didnt agree. He thought he was out of pocket to the region of £5,000 due to the 
recommendations from Motorpoint. 
Ref: DRN23505732I issued a provisional decision on this complaint:
Motorpoint is authorised  by the Financial Conduct Authority for credit broking.  Our service is 
able to consider  complaints against  Motorpoint that relate to acts or omissions by it when 
carrying out credit broking. So Im satisfied I can consider Mr Hs complaint about how the 
agreement was brokered. 
Credit brokers  are required to ensure that the key features of a regulated credit agreement  
are explained  to customers to ensure they can make an informed  choice about  whether or 
not to take it out. Credit brokers should  also take reasonable steps to ensure the product it 
recommends is suitable for the customers needs. 
commission
I dont think theres sufficient evidence to show  that, on balance,  Motorpoint recommended  
the PCP/Boomerang agreement as opposed  to another sort of agreement to increase its 
commission. Motorpoint has explained that it would  not have received more  commission  
from brokering a PCP/Boomerang agreement deal compared to another  type of agreement 
with the same lender. So I dont think I can safely conclude that Motorpoint sold Mr H a 
PCP/Boomerang agreement as opposed  to another type of agreement  to maximise its 
commission. 
sale of the agreement
Before making a regulated credit agreement, firms should provide  the customer with an 
adequate explanation to help them make sure the agreement is adapted to their needs  and 
financial situation. So it should explain the features of the agreement to make sure its 
suitable for the customer and set out any features  which may have an adverse effect on 
them in any way which they are unlikely to foresee.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Hs recollections of what he discussed with Motorpoint when 
he acquired the car. I find his recollections of the discussions with the sales advisor  have 
been clear and consistent throughout. And I find his testimony credible and plausible. 
Mr H tells us he likes to change his cars regularly and plans to keep doing  so for the next 10 
years until he retires.  But he says this is the first time hes acquired a car under a finance 
agreement. He also tells us he thought the type of agreement  he entered into would enable 
him to change his car every 12  18 months up until retirement where  he would be able to 
hand back the car with nothing further owing. The demands and needs paperwork provided 
by Motorpoint  supports  this, indicating Mr H likes to change his car every 18 months. Even 
though Mr H returned to Motorpoint earlier than the 18 months expected,  his actions  are 
consistent with someone  who wanted  to change their car regularly. 
Ref: DRN23505733In Mr Hs case, he paid a small deposit  towards  the agreement. Taking this into account,  
along with the total amount payable and the likely  depreciation of the car, it would have  been  
very likely that Mr H would have been in significant  negative equity if he chose to exit the 
agreement early on. Im not persuaded that this was brought  to Mr Hs attention and 
considering this was Mr Hs first car finance agreement, I think  its unreasonable  to expect 
him to have  known  this. Had Motorpoint  made him aware of this, like I think it should  have, 
Im not persuaded that Mr H would have  gone ahead with this particular arrangement. I dont  
think Motorpoint gave  Mr H enough clear information about the key features of the 
agreement in order for him to make an informed decision  particularly given that it was his 
first finance  agreement. And I think this led to him entering into an agreement that wasnt 
suitable for him. 
I also find it unusual that Mr H didnt  pay a higher deposit. He says he was told that money  
he received from part exchanging his previous  car could be used to cover the monthly  
payments for the time he was planning to keep the car. The money  he received would have 
covered around  14 payments  which ties in with the length of time that Mr H says he 
wanted to keep the car. But I cant see that there  was any benefit  of him not putting this 
money towards the deal up front. The APR applying to the money  he borrowed under the 
hire purchase agreement was 12.9%. I think its very unlikely he would  have achieved  
anywhere near this with the money in a savings account or short-term  investment. There  
was no obvious  need for him to not put the money towards the agreement.  So I think he 
should have been advised of this. And, from what hes said and on balance, I dont think  
Motorpoint did this. 
ending the agreement
Mr H has told us that he has now paid off the agreement and sold the car. But he previously 
raised concerns  that he would have been in negative equity at the end of the term of the 
agreement. So I wanted to address this part of the complaint. 
The terms of the agreement set out a Guaranteed Future Value of the car of £12,596. So, if 
Mr H reached  the end of the agreement, he could have  settled it by paying this amount plus 
a £10 option to purchase  fee. Alternatively, he could have  handed the car back, at no further  
cost providing hed taken reasonable care of it and hadnt exceeded the mileage limit. 
Therefore, Im satisfied  that Mr H would have been able to hand  back his car at the end of 
the agreement, at no further cost, should  he have wished to do so. So Motorpoint doesnt 
need to take any action  for this part of the complaint. 
how to put things right
If Mr H still had the agreement, I may have recommended Motorpoint buy the car back from 
him; settle  his hire purchase agreement; reimburse him his deposit; and for it to refund  him 
some of the interest  hed paid. This would have meant that Mr H exited the agreement 
without owing anything. But Mr H has sold the car, so this is no longer possible. 
As Mr H has now paid off the agreement  and sold the car, theres  no requirement for 
Motorpoint to take anything  back or for it to settle  his finance agreement. But I do think  that 
Mr H has been unfairly  inconvenienced. And I think hes lost out financially as well.  
Ref: DRN23505734If Motorpoint had explained things properly,  I think its more  likely than not Mr H would have 
acted differently. Im satisfied he planned to change  his car every  12-18 months.  So I still 
think he would have  acquired a car. But, for the reasons given, I think  its likely Mr H would 
have acquired  the car under different terms. Or, he would have acquired  a different car 
altogether. 
If hed acquired the same  car under different terms, he may have chosen to reduce the term 
of the agreement (thereby increasing  his monthly  payments but decreasing  the amount of 
interest hed have to pay).  But I think its more likely he would have chosen  to pay a higher 
deposit. Mr H received £7,700 when he part-exchanged his old car. Had he put down more 
than a £200 deposit, its quite possible that, when selling his car, hed have had equity to 
take into a new purchase  or hed have less negative equity. And, importantly, Mr H would 
have paid significantly less interest  because  he would have borrowed less money. 
Mr H was charged around £7,000 in interest when he borrowed around £24,000. Had he put 
£7,500 towards  the deal (the extra amount he received from his part exchange),  his interest  
would have likely reduced by almost a third  around £2,300. 
As a starting point,  I dont think its fair that Mr H lost out by borrowing more than he needed 
to. However, I have to bear in mind  that he settled the agreement around halfway into it, and 
he would  have received an interest  rebate. More interest was applied  towards  the start of the 
agreement. So I find a fair amount  in the circumstances to refund Mr H is £1,500  slightly 
over 50% of the extra interest hed paid.  This is in recognition of the interest I think  Mr H paid 
when he didnt need to. 
Ive also thought about what  would  have happened  if Mr H had bought a different car. Its 
impossible to know what his financial position would have been in had he done this, by 
different means  or under different terms. But I think its more  likely  than not that any car he 
acquired would depreciate  over the 12-18 months  he planned to own it. So he may well have 
been in the same sort of financial  position,  even had he acquired a different  car under 
different means  or terms. So while I acknowledge there may have been a deficit, the 
problem is that I cannot  be certain what financial loss Mr H would have  incurred. 
All things  considered, I think its likely  Motorpoint  didnt  adequately  explain the key features 
of the hire purchase  agreement when it brokered it for Mr H. I dont think it did enough to 
make sure that the agreement was suitable for him. And I think  that Mr H has been caused 
inconvenience by Motorpoints actions. It must have been distressing and concerning for him 
when he unexpectedly found out Motorpoints offer was significantly less than what  he owed. 
I think he would have  been worried about what he was going  to do. Therefore, in addition to 
the refund  of £1,500,  I think  Motorpoint  should pay him the £250  our investigator 
recommended in recognition of the trouble  and upset  caused. 
Both Mr H and Motorpoint accepted the provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not been given anything new to consider,  I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN23505735my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Motorpoint  Limited  (trading as 
Motorpoint of Peterborough) to pay Mr H £1,750.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2350573