K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains Inter Partner  Assistance  SA (IPA) have declined his travel insurance claim.
background
In January 2019, Mr O was abroad when his car got a flat tyre. Mr O said it was dark, and he 
needed help changing the tyre, so a nearby group  came to help. Mr Os bag was in the boot 
of the car - along  with his spare  tyre and tools.  So he could access the tools, he moved his 
bag to the backseats to keep it safe. When he finished  changing  the tyre he realised it was 
missing. Mr O says there were several valuables in the bag along  with some cash. It also 
contained other items of baggage  some clothing and shoes.
Mr O reported this to the police and made  a claim on his travel insurance  policy. IPA 
declined Mr Os claim - they said his valuables and money  were  unattended  so they were  
excluded from cover. Mr O complained to IPA who, on review, said they felt their decision to 
decline a claim for Mr Os valuables was right. But his other baggage items didnt fall under 
the term of valuable. So these would be covered providing Mr Os claim was eligible under 
the remaining  terms and conditions  and theyd  referred this part for further review. IPA told 
me theyd  never made a decision on the claim.   They asked Mr O for some information but 
they didnt hear back from him - so they withdrew  the claim.  So Ive considered  Mr Os claim 
for his other baggage items along with the money  and valuables in my decision.
IPA also paid Mr O £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused by delays in responding 
to Mr O.
Our investigator recommended Mr Os complaint should be upheld.  They  found  Mr O was 
with his car at the time of the theft and took reasonable steps  to secure  his bag  so felt IPA 
had applied  the exclusion unfairly. They found  Mr O hadnt left the items unattended so it 
wasnt fair and reasonable to rely on that exclusion. They recommended  IPA reconsider 
Mr Os claim in line with the rest of the policy terms.
IPA disagreed. They said because the car was unlocked, Mr O didnt prevent unauthorised 
access to the bag. 
As IPA didnt agree the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to decide is whether IPA acted in line with the policy  terms and if their decision 
to decline the claim  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances   and I dont agree they 
have. So Im upholding Mr Os complaint and Ill explain why.
IPAs policy  documentation says they dont  cover loss, theft or damage of valuables  and 
personal money if left unattended.
The policy also defines unattended  as:
 
Ref: DRN26537112when you are not in full view of, and not in a position to prevent, unauthorised 
interference with your property or vehicle.
Mr O was changing one of the back tyres, and accessing tools  from the boot of the car, 
when the bag went missing so I think he had sight of his car - including where the bag was 
stored in the back. IPA said Mr O didnt prevent unauthorised access as he didnt  lock the 
car when  he moved  his bag. Mr O was accessing the spare  tyre and needed to access  tools  
from the boot so I think its reasonable the car would be unlocked, as he was next to it. Mr O 
also moved the bag to the back seat to keep it safe as the boot was open. Although  Mr O 
didnt actually prevent  access, this doesnt mean  he wasnt in a position to. He was near to 
the car, where  the bag was stored,  while changing  the tyre - so I think  he wouldve been in a 
position to prevent unauthorised access.
So Im not persuaded Mr O left his valuables and money unattended  - and its not fair and 
reasonable for the exclusion to apply  in this particular case. IPA should therefore reconsider  
his claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy. 
Ive also looked  at the delay in IPA responding to Mr O. IPA wrote  to Mr O and said theyd 
referred part of his claim to be reviewed  - and theyd respond  in five working days. But they 
didnt respond  to Mr O for about a month so IPA paid Mr O £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I think they were  right to pay compensation  because  of this and I 
think £50 is a reasonable amount. So I wont be asking for them to do anything further here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint. I require Inter Partner  Assistance SA to 
consider Mr Os claim in line with the remaining  terms and conditions of the policy. If they 
make a cash settlement  they should  also pay Mr O interest on that sum at the simple rate of 
8% per year to compensate him for not having  the money. This should be calculated from 
the date Mr O made his claim  to the date payment  is made to him1. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject  my decision 
before 4 November  2019.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
1 If Inter Partner Assistance  SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr O how much its taken off. It should also give Mr O a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.  
Ref: DRN2653711