K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt allow  them to withdraw a 
large sum of money over the counter.
background
Mr and Mrs W wanted to take out £6,000 in cash for a holiday, so Mr W says he phoned  
Santander head office beforehand to see if this was possible. In that call, Mr W told 
Santander hed had problems taking out large amounts of cash  from his local branch before. 
The call handler didnt  think  there would be any problems. Mr W was told that as a select  
customer, he was eligible  to withdraw up to £10,000,  in branch, without prior approval, as 
long as he had photographic identification  and proof of account ownership.
Mr W decided  to take the money out of his local branch in two transactions, so he didnt 
have to carry too much cash on him at one time. The first withdrawal of £3,000  was 
provided. However, the following  day, when he went to withdraw  another £3,000, it was 
refused as staff didnt  think the questions asked  had been answered  sufficiently.  
Mr and Mrs W were able to withdraw the cash from another branch of Santander the 
following day. 
Mr W complained  to Santander. Santander said they had followed their guidelines and as 
they were concerned about where  the money was going. They  said they were concerned  
about the money being used in potential fraud.  
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with this response so brought the complaint to us. They said 
they would  like Santander to admit that their handling of the matter  was wrong, and to 
apologise.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint. She felt that Santander had acted  in line 
with their procedures, so she didnt recommend Santander do anything. Mr and Mrs W dont 
agree with this, so have asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr and Mrs W feel strongly  about  this matter. They were, after all, trying to 
access their own money and had phoned  Santander  beforehand  to ensure that there would 
be no issues.
Mr W followed the advice given on the phone when he went into branch. But he says he was 
also asked questions about what he was going to use the money for, before being  given  the 
cash. When he returned the next day, he saw the same cashier, who questioned  him again 
but then refused to give him the remaining £3,000 he needed  for his holiday. Santander 
have said they are required to identify what customers intend to spend  their money on to 
minimise potential fraud. If they dont feel the customer is being open about where the 
money is going, they have a right to decline. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs W are frustrated that they werent  able to withdraw  their 
money. I appreciate that Mr W phoned Santander before he tried to withdraw the cash  and 
was told it was unlikely  that hed have  any problems. However, the call handler didnt 
Ref: DRN22850772guarantee that Mr W wouldnt be asked any questions in branch, and I dont think the branch 
staff unreasonable  to be concerned that Mr W was attempting to withdraw large amounts of 
money in cash,  on two consecutive days. There is some dispute about what  was said in 
branch and I cant be certain  what happened, but I think Santander were entitled to withhold 
money from Mr and Mrs Ws account  in the circumstances. Theyd  told us that they were 
concerned that Mr W might have been caught  up in a fraud  of some sort, and they didnt 
think their questions had been answered  sufficiently. I am satisfied that Santanders actions 
were intended  to keep Mr and Mrs Ws money secure and protected them  from fraud.  
I can see why Mr W might  have felt some of the questions were intrusive, but I cant  fairly  
and reasonably say that Santander  acted incorrectly. I cant see anything to suggest the 
information asked  for wasnt appropriate  in the circumstances, and I consider their actions in 
line with Santanders  terms  and conditions. 
Im also conscious that Mr W was able to withdraw the remaining £3,000  from another 
branch the following day. So, he was able to use the money  to go on holiday as planned.
Taking the matter  as whole, I dont think Santander needs to do anything  to resolve this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc doesnt  need to do anything to resolve this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 December  2019.
Sarah Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2285077