K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded  him some money he paid using his 
credit card for some  travel tickets.
background
Mr M said that he bought  travel tickets online for his family. He said that he didnt book 
directly with the airline, he used an online travel agent instead. He paid with his Lloyds credit 
card.
Mr M told us that he had noticed  an error  with the tickets when they were issued. So he rang 
the agent, but it told him not to worry. The agent  has since  said it has no record of this call.
Mr M and his family were  told at the airport that there were errors in the names of all four 
bookings. As the tickets  for two family  members didnt have the right surname,  they werent 
able to fly. The airline said that it couldnt change the tickets  for Mr M. He was forced to 
cancel those two tickets, and purchase  new tickets at a significantly greater cost.
Mr M received a partial  refund for the unused tickets. That didnt cover the cost of the 
replacements. Mr M wanted Lloyds to cover  that cost.
Lloyds said that, because Mr M had paid using  a credit card, it could consider a section 75 
claim for him. But it said it had investigated, and it didnt think that the travel agent who sold 
the tickets to Mr M had done anything wrong. It said that the agents terms and conditions  
set out that Mr M is responsible for checking  the booking details are correct. 
Mr M complained to our service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that the agent had told him that its 
online system  automatically issues the tickets in the names which  are entered  into the online 
booking form. It said that if there  was a problem with this system  so that it made mistakes 
in transferring over that information - it would expect that problem to affect other customers  
too, and that would cause  real problems for its business. 
Our investigator said that Mr M wouldve had to input a first name  and last name  for each  
passenger, to be able to make the booking.  Our investigator said that he hadnt  seen 
enough to suggest to him that there  was a technical  issue with inputting  customer  details on 
the agents website when  Mr M made  his booking.  
Our investigator said that Mr M didnt seem to have told Lloyds that he had spotted the error 
on the tickets and had contacted the agent about  this straight  away. Rather, Mr M seemed to 
have said to Lloyds  that the error  wasnt spotted until he and his family  were at the airport.  
So our investigator said that Lloyds didnt make a mistake by referring  Mr M to the agents 
terms, which require him to check his booking to ensure everythings correct. He also said 
that if Mr M had called the agent straightaway and asked about the mistake,  then he 
wouldve expected  that agent  to offer to change the booking. That was a straightforward 
process also covered  in the terms of the booking.
Mr M said that he was very disappointed. He said that he had to pay for extra tickets, and he 
didnt think this was his fault,  but it looked  as if our service thought it was. Mr M said that 
because the agent didnt  have records of his initial call to it about  the mistake, he wanted to 
Ref: DRN20736052know if it also had records of his call from the airport, to try to fix the problem. And he wanted 
to know why two people on the booking,  whose middle names were missing  from the 
booking, were allowed  to check  in.
Mr M and our investigator had an exchange of correspondence, which  covered the following 
points. Our investigator said that the agent  did have a record of Mr Ms call from the airport. 
But he didnt  think that helped him to decide  whether Mr M had called earlier. He also noted 
that Mr M hadnt mentioned this earlier call to Lloyds when he made  his complaint. Our 
investigator didnt  know  why middle  names  were left off the other two bookings,  and said it 
was the airline  and airports  decision whether those travellers could fly. Our investigator 
noted that the agent had said that if Mr M had an autofill  feature  on his browser,  that might 
have completed the relevant fields for him. 
Our investigator said that Mr M was concentrating on whether we thought this problem was 
his fault, but that wasnt the key issue here.  He explained that what  we need to consider is 
whether Lloyds had done  anything wrong  once the matters been  brought  to its attention. 
And our investigator said he didnt  think it had.
Because our investigator and Mr M didnt  agree,  the case  was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
as our investigator on this complaint, and for broadly the same reasons.
Mr M bought  his flight tickets using  a Lloyds credit card.  Under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 he can claim against the credit  provider, Lloyds, if theres either  a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. He did that. And Lloyds 
said it wouldnt pay his claim. What I have to consider here is whether Lloyds has properly  
taken into account  its obligations to Mr M as his credit card provider. Those  obligations 
include those under section 75.
There was an error  on Mr Ms travel tickets.  I dont know  why that happened. Mr M says it 
wasnt his fault.  Its possible that hes clicked on an autofill feature on his browser, which 
has filled in the wrong  details.  But if he has, that wouldnt be the agents fault. 
For whatever reason,  the wrong  details appeared on the tickets that were sent to Mr M. Mr M 
has told us that he called  straight away  about this, but was told not to worry. But because Mr 
M didnt say that when  he first complained to Lloyds; because the agent has no record of 
that call; and because it was a problem that needed  to be fixed  before everyone could fly; I 
think its more likely  than not that Mr M didnt  call the agent at that point. I think its more  
likely that Mr M didnt  notice the mistake  until he got to the airport. That also seems to me to 
be consistent with what he originally said to Lloyds. 
Lloyds told Mr M that the agents terms require him to check the details on his tickets. So it 
didnt think that the agent  had breached his contract, or made any misrepresentation. I think  
that was a reasonable conclusion for Lloyds to draw.  
If Lloyds can see that the agent hasnt breached Mr Ms contract,  or made  any 
misrepresentation, then it wouldnt be responsible, as Mr Ms credit card provider and under 
Ref: DRN20736053section 75, for paying him back any money that he spent putting this problem right.  Thats 
what it has said in this case. I dont think Lloyds made a mistake  when it did that. 
I know that Mr M will be disappointed,  but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2073605