K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a credit card in January 2006. Mr S says Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax  
(Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this.
Mr Ss representative has made  several  complaint points, including  the fact that wasnt  
advised the policy was optional. So Ive looked  carefully at his credit card application  form to 
decide whats most likely to have happened  at the time.
Halifax says Mr S applied  for his credit card and PPI during a telephone call, and I accept 
that I cant know exactly what was said during  that call. But it also looks  as though  Mr S was 
sent an application form to complete and sign after the call. The application form includes a 
separate PPI section,  which  includes  a tick box accept PPI. This section  also required Mr S 
to sign it  separately from signing the form to apply for the card itself. 
Mr Ss representative has said the PPI section of the credit card application form included  an 
X which made Mr S think  he had to sign it. But on balance, I dont agree. The layout  of the 
form suggests that the PPI was a separate product from the card itself,  and it doesnt include 
anything to suggest that Mr S had to tick the box for PPI, or add the additional signature.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that it was right for him  and based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For example he wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a 
need for the cover. I understand  that he was entitled  to around three months sick pay from 
his employer, but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to that, for up to a year. So Mr S 
wouldve been able to use his sick pay for any other  financial commitments  he had. The PPI 
wouldve also paid out if Mr S had lost his job  and from what shes  said, it doesnt seem  as 
though he had any other means, such as savings,  to sustain his credit  card repayments if 
that had happened.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
I want to reassure Mr S that Ive thought  carefully about everything shes  said. But having 
done so, I dont think that Halifax  mis-sold the PPI to him.
Ref: DRN24703272This means  Halifax doesnt  need to refund everything Mr S paid for the PPI. But Halifax has 
already offered to give Mr S back some  of the cost of the PPI. 
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr S now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2470327