K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that a used car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wishes to 
now reject  it.
background 
In June 2018  Mr D acquired a used car via a five year hire purchase  agreement with 
BMWFS. The car was around three years old and had a mileage of 34,147. On the way 
home after collecting the car a tyre pressure warning  light illuminated. This was reported and 
the dealership  said it was likely to be a sensor error  and if it didnt reoccur there  wasnt  a 
problem.
Two weeks later an amber oil warning light illuminated. Mr D added  oil to the car and 
contacted the dealership. The dealership advised  Mr D to contact the manufacturers 
assistance team. Mr D did so and additional oil was added to the car but the warning 
light continued to show it had insufficient oil.
Mr D arranged for the car to be inspected and it was towed to the dealership. The oil level 
was discovered to still be too low and was topped up further.  No leaks were identified  and 
Mr D says he was advised the likely cause had been a low oil level when the car had 
been dropped  off at the dealership. Mr D was provided with a courtesy car for the three 
days the car was at the dealership.
Just under two weeks later the oil warning light illuminated again. The car was returned to 
the dealership  who said they needed to do an oil consumption test. The car was kept by the 
dealership for six days. Mr D was provided with a courtesy car for that period. No faults  
were identified by the test.
A few days later the issue with the oil warning  light reoccurred and the car was tested 
further by the dealership. The car was at the dealership for five days and the tests didnt 
reveal a fault.  Mr D was again provided  with a courtesy car during this period.
In September a red oil warning light illuminated. The car was inspected at the dealership 
and Mr D was informed  that the cars engine need to be stripped down as it was suspected 
there was an internal  fault.
Mr D emailed BMWFS and said he now wanted to reject the car. Mr D followed up his 
email with a phone call during  which  he was advised  there would need to be an 
investigation, and was reassured  that by having  the car repaired this didnt mean  he was 
accepting the repair as a resolution.
The car was taken to the dealership where a new engine  was fitted as metal filings had 
been found in the oil which had caused  damage  to the old engine.  The car was at the 
dealership for two months. During this time Mr D was supplied  with a courtesy car.
Mr D collected the repaired  car but informed BMWFS that he still wished to reject  it. 
BMWFS instead offered Mr D a refund of four months payments under  the agreement  and 
to extend the cars  warranty for a further  12 months  when the current  one expired.
Ref: DRN29158532Mr D complained to this service. He said he had lost faith in the car and that he had a right 
to reject it due to the number of faults  and the number of times it had been in to the 
dealership for repair. He also asked that he was compensated  for the cost of the insurance  
on the car as hed been unable to drive it for much of the time he had it.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. She said she thought  BMWFSs offer 
to Mr D had been  fair. It had fixed the fault with the car at no cost to Mr D and while  it 
was being repaired  provided him with a courtesy  car.
The investigator also said she didnt  think it was reasonable for BMWFS to reimburse Mr D 
his insurance costs. Although the courtesy  car was of a lower  spec insurance  costs 
wouldve always been incurred  by Mr D.
Mr D disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said the car wasnt fit for purpose at 
the point of sale and he had a right to reject it. He says hed been assured  by BMWFS that 
having the car repaired wouldnt  affect this right. Thered been a total of five attempts to fix 
the car and it had spent around 10 weeks in the garage all within the first six months of the 
agreement.
As the parties  werent able to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines. Id seen from the evidence that Mr D had experienced 
problems with the car within  a very short time of acquiring it. Under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (The Act), goods must be of satisfactory quality at the point of sale, as described and 
fit for purpose.
When assessing whether  a car was of satisfactory  quality consideration needs  to be 
given to its age and mileage. The car in this case was three years  old with a mileage of 
around 34,000,  so although it may have had some wear and tear I thought it was 
reasonable not to have  expected it to require a new engine. I understood the engine had 
been damaged  due to the car being used with too little oil.
I didnt  think  it was disputed that the problem with the engine was either present or 
developing at the point of sale. The issue was whether Mr D had the right to now reject  the 
car. Under the Act there  was a right to reject  faulty  goods if the consumer asked for a refund 
within the first 30 days of acquiring them. However,  if a fault was found after 30 days,  but 
within the first six months,  although the presumption was that the fault was present at the 
point of sale the retailer was provided  with an opportunity to fix the goods before they could 
be rejected.
Where goods were obtained  under  a finance  agreement then it was the finance provider, 
in this case BMWFS, who was responsible if the goods were  found to be faulty.
In this case, although the car was showing signs of a problem within a very short time of 
Mr D acquiring  it, he didnt raise his wish to reject it until after 30 days had passed. I also 
thought that even  if he had raised his right to reject  the car when the warning light first 
started to illuminate it wouldve been reasonable for BMWFS to have  rejected  that request 
at that point. I said this because at that time the problem seemed to be relatively  
straightforward and checks hadnt revealed any faults.
It was only when  the cars  engine was fully stripped that the extent of the damage was 
revealed. I appreciated it wouldve been frustrating for Mr D to have the car taken 
backwards and forwards to the dealership because the oil warning light kept coming on, but 
Ref: DRN29158533I didnt think it was unreasonable  for the dealership to have  conducted the other checks  that 
it did first before  deciding  it was necessary  to strip out the engine.
BMWFS said that the replacement engine  had fixed the car though  Mr D remained 
concerned that the fault may still exist with the cars  sensors. He said that the tyre pressure 
sensor illuminated without  reason. Mr D also said that due to his lack of confidence with the 
car he hadnt really  driven it since it was returned to him.
But I didnt have any evidence that the car wasnt now fixed. There couldve been  a 
number of other reasons  why the tyre sensor  was triggered. I didnt think  I could 
reasonably say that the tyre pressure warning light was a sign that the car wasnt now fit 
for purpose or of a satisfactory quality.
I was aware that Mr D had very recently informed  us that the car had broken down again 
with a possible issue with its gearbox. He said hed only been  able to drive it for around  
3,000 miles since the last repairs  were  undertaken. But I didnt have any evidence  as to 
whether this fault was new or linked  to the past fault so I didnt think  I could reasonably say 
that Mr D could  now reject  the car. I thought it would be fair for Mr D to make a new 
complaint with BMWFS and allow it to investigate that first. If this new fault was linked, then 
BMWFS might  agree that rejection was now be appropriate.
I appreciated that Mr D had been  through a stressful time with the car as he was expecting 
to be able to have a trouble free and enjoyable  driving experience. He was provided with a 
courtesy car to drive while his was in the garage although this wasnt of the same spec.
BMWFS had offered  Mr D four months  worth of payments back  to compensate  for the 
time he was without the car and for the distress  this matter had caused him. This dispute 
had taken some time to resolve and looking at the impact on Mr D I thought  it would be fair 
for BMWFS to pay Mr D some additional  compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience 
this matter has caused him. I thought a further payment of £300  compensation on top of 
the four months worth of payments would be fair and reasonable.
I appreciated Mr D strongly  felt that BMWFS had told him he would be able to reject the car. 
He had asked  for me to listen  to two phone calls between him and BMWFS and I had done 
so. I was afraid  I didnt agree that BMWFS was as clear about his right to reject  the car as 
Mr D felt it had been.  Mr D was told he had the right to request rejection of the car, but in 
both calls no guarantees were given about the outcome. He was advised there would  need  
to be an investigation first and a decision would then be made as to whether his request to 
reject would be agreed. I didnt think I could reasonably say he had been misled about  
being able to reject  the car. And if the repair was unsuccessful, then Mr D would then be 
able to seek  the right to reject the car.
Mr D said the insurance  he had for this car cost considerably more than the insurance 
wouldve been had hed had to pay the insurance  on the courtesy car. While  I accepted this 
may be so, insurance costs were  always something Mr D wouldve had to pay as part of his 
every day travelling costs. I also thought this was something that would be unnecessarily 
complicated to quantify. So I was satisfied  that the compensation  offered by BMWFS 
together with the further amount of £300 would  reflect the total inconvenience and distress 
caused to Mr D, which would include his frustration at having a car insured for his use but 
not being able to do so for a time.
Ref: DRN29158534So for the reasons Id given above  I was intending  to partially  uphold  Mr Ds complaint 
and ask BMWFS  to pay him a further amount of compensation  of £300  for his distress  
and inconvenience.
BMWFS agreed  with my provisional  decision,  but Mr D disagreed with it as he says that 
since the provisional decision was sent out the car has been back to the garage twice for 
repairs to the engine mounting  bolts. He says either  he should now be able to reject the 
car or receive a larger amount of compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its agreed the car has been back to the garage  twice in April 2019. Mr D has sent in one 
invoice for one set of these repairs which shows that the top engine  mount  was replaced. Mr 
D says he believes these  problems are a result  of the original problem and its unfair if I cant 
look at the further  repairs.
Ive raised these further visits  to the garage with BMWFS and it says that no faults with the 
car could  be found  and that the bolts were changed as a precaution.  I appreciate Mr D may 
disagree with what  BMWFS has said and, if he does, then he will need to make a new 
complaint to BMWFS.
In light of the information Ive received, I dont think I have enough evidence to be able to say 
that the original  engine  repair wasnt successful  and that the car has an inherent fault that is 
still present. So Im not taking the two recent  visits to the garage as evidence that the car 
isnt of satisfactory quality. 
Looking at the evidence I havent changed my mind.  Im partially upholding Mr Ds complaint 
and I think the compensation of the reimbursed four months of payments under the 
agreement, the extended  warranty  (both  of which  were  originally  offered  by BMWFS) 
together with an additional £300  payment is a fair and reasonable amount to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience the cars faults have had on Mr D. 
I understand that BMWFS  has paid Mr D the compensation and so I wont  ask it to do more.
Ref: DRN29158535my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im partially  upholding Mr Ds complaint. Im asking BMWFS  to 
pay Mr D an additional £300  compensation on top of the reimbursed four months of 
payments under the agreement and the 12 month extended warranty.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2915853