K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that they were  mis-sold  a mortgage and some  related services by an 
appointed representative of Legal  & General Partnership Services Limited  (L&G).
Mr and Mrs F are represented in bringing  their complaint by a claims management company 
(CMC).
background
Mr and Mrs F remortgaged in 2005. They were advised by a mortgage broker from the firm 
Carrington Carr Home Finance Ltd, which was an appointed representative of L&G at the 
time. For ease, Ill refer to the broker as L&G throughout.
Prior to the remortgage, Mr and Mrs F had an interest only mortgage  with an outstanding  
balance of around £48,000. They also had a secured loan with around  £22,000  owing, and a 
number of other unsecured debts totalling  around £9,000.
Under the new mortgage that L&G recommended, Mr and Mrs F switched to a repayment 
mortgage and extended their mortgage  term. They borrowed a little over £97,000, raising 
capital of £10,000 and paying off all their other debts.  
In 2018, the CMC complained to L&G on Mr and Mrs Fs behalf. It raised a number of 
concerns with the sale of the mortgage, saying in particular that:
Mr and Mrs F hadnt had an urgent need to remortgage. Theyd  been  in a relatively 
stable financial position, with a comfortable amount of money  left over each month 
after meeting  all their commitments. So the savings of the new mortgage  werent  
enough to justify the cost of setting up, which amounted to over £8,000.
Mr and Mrs F shouldnt have  consolidated  their credit card debts within the mortgage. 
These accounts had relatively low balances, and Mr and Mrs F could afford the 
monthly repayments. And theyd  have paid the accounts off in a shorter period of 
time than the new mortgage term. 
The term of Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage had been  extended in line with L&Gs advice, 
but thered been  no real benefit in doing so.
Mr and Mrs F had also been  mis-sold  a will and estate planning  package, a legal 
administration service  and a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
L&G didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. It said, in summary, that:
Details of Mr and Mrs Fs income  and expenditure were  taken by the adviser  at the 
time, which showed that they were overspending. They  also had an outstanding  
County Court Judgement (CCJ) and a default registered against  them, which 
suggested some financial difficulty. So they had a need  to review things, and to 
reduce their outgoings. 
Ref: DRN28133632Mr and Mrs F had wanted  to change from an interest only to a repayment mortgage, 
as the endowments they had in place were projected to fall short  of the target  
amount. The new mortgage  facilitated  this, ensuring  their mortgage would be fully 
repaid by the end of the term.  Mortgage  funds were also used to pay off the CCJ and 
default debts.
The extended term kept Mr and Mrs Fs payments at an affordable level but still 
ensured theyd repay the mortgage before their expected retirement. So L&G 
considered the recommendation  suitable.  It also said the consequences  of 
consolidating debts  within  the mortgage  had been explained  to Mr and Mrs F.
Mr and Mrs F had been made  aware  of the legal costs involved and couldve made 
alternative arrangements if theyd  wished. So it didnt agree that the legal  
administration service  was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs F had a need for a will, but it hadnt been right to fund this through the 
mortgage. So it offered to refund  them the interest this fee would attract over the term 
of the mortgage  and pay them £150  compensation.
The PPI policy had been addressed under  a previous complaint back  in 2012, so this 
wouldnt be revisited.
Not happy with that, the CMC referred Mr and Mrs Fs complaint to us and it was reviewed 
by one of our adjudicators. He thought the recommendation had been suitable  for much the 
same reasons as L&G had pointed out, while noting that Mr and Mrs F had also benefitted 
from the additional £10,000  theyd  raised. He didnt  find anything wrong in how the legal 
services were sold, but agreed that the will package ought not to have been funded through 
the mortgage. He thought L&G had made a fair offer to put that right, so he didnt 
recommend that it do anything more.
As the CMC didnt  accept our adjudicators view, Mr and Mrs Fs complaint was passed  to 
me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage advice
Like our adjudicator, I think L&Gs recommendation was suitable for Mr and Mrs F. They had 
legitimate concerns around their ability  to repay  the capital balance on their existing interest 
only mortgage due to the apparent underperformance of their endowment policies. So I think 
the switch to a repayment mortgage  was suitable, as it provided  them  with the certainty that 
their mortgage would be fully paid off at the end of the term and prior to their retirement.
I think the switch to a repayment mortgage was a significant factor  in the recommendation to 
extend the mortgage term. I think that was suitable, as keeping  it the same as Mr and 
Mrs Fs previous mortgage wouldve meant higher monthly payments. Spreading the capital 
repayments over a longer mortgage  term kept the monthly  payments  affordable  for Mr and 
Mrs F (while also accommodating the significant additional borrowing they took out).
Ref: DRN28133633Mr and Mrs F also consolidated a number of debts within the new mortgage. There  are pros 
and cons in doing so, but here I think the benefits  outweighed the costs.  I say this because  
Mr and Mrs F had a significant level of additional borrowing, spread out over eleven  different 
loan, credit card and store card accounts.  The income and expenditure details recorded at 
the time show that they were  spending almost £500  a month on servicing these debts, on 
top of the £260 they had to pay just to cover  the interest on their mortgage. They were able 
to benefit from a lower  interest on the borrowing under  their new mortgage,  meaning that 
despite the additional borrowing and the switch to a repayment basis  they now had just one 
monthly payment  of a little over £800.  The remortgage also meant  they had the freedom to 
use the endowment  policy  proceeds  how and when they wished, as they were no longer  
required to pay off their mortgage.
I appreciate what the CMC has said about some of Mr and Mrs Fs being relatively small and 
that by consolidating them within the mortgage, theyll end up paying more  in interest over 
the longer term.  Thats not always a good  idea.  But I think Mr and Mrs F were quite 
stretched. They seem  to have had a reasonable level of disposable income, but theyd  
evidently fallen  behind on payments on at least two accounts. There  could be a number of 
reasons for this, but if not evidence of financial difficulty  then it at least  suggests that they 
were struggling to keep  on top of their large  number of commitments.  So I think  there was 
some benefit  in moving to one monthly  payment. And so bearing in mind  the need  to switch 
to repayment  and raise  additional funds for home  improvements, I dont think  it was a bad 
idea to consolidate their existing debts  within the same transaction. 
I also think Mr and Mrs F were given  sufficient information about  the consequences  of 
consolidating debt within their mortgage, which were highlighted within  a record of 
suitability letter given  to Mr and Mrs F at the time.
Ive taken all the CMCs points about the advice into account, including  that Mr and Mrs F 
couldve been redirected to their existing  lender  to make these changes.  They couldve 
been, but L&G wasnt required to suggest  they do that. I think it was reasonable for L&G to 
source a competitive deal from across the market, and for the reasons Ive explained I think 
its recommendation was suitable.
I note the CMC says that it cost Mr and Mrs F around £8,000 to arrange the new mortgage, 
but thats not quite right.  Around £4,500 related to the PPI policy, a separate insurance  
policy sold alongside the mortgage. In all it actually  cost Mr and Mrs F just over £3,000 to 
arrange the new mortgage, which included  the brokers fee as well as the lenders 
arrangement fee, a valuation fee and legal costs. I dont think that figure is so high as to 
outweigh the benefits of the new mortgage  to Mr and Mrs F.
The will package
Generally speaking I think its good  advice  that wills and related arrangements are kept 
under review. The CMC has said that Mr and Mrs F didnt have a need for a will, but I cant  
see anything about their circumstances that meant  there was no benefit  to them in reviewing 
their arrangements.  So I dont think it was an inappropriate  recommendation.
The CMC points out that the broker and the will provider had directors  in common.  But I 
dont find it inherently  wrong  to have introduced Mr and Mrs F to a particular company, even 
if they shared  (some) directors.
Ref: DRN28133634The CMC says that Mr and Mrs F were led to believe that they had to take out the will 
package for the mortgage to go ahead. But Ive not seen  anything to support that. Given  the 
prolonged timescale over which a mortgage will take to complete and then for a will to be 
drawn up (and charged for), it seems to me that Mr and Mrs F would have  had ample time 
and opportunity to decline  the will package if theyd  not wanted  to proceed. 
The CMC considers the cost of the will package to have been over the market  rate. But as 
the package was provided by a third party, the question  as to whether it provided  value  for 
money isnt something  I can hold L&G responsible  for. If Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the 
cost (or quality) of the will package, they ought  to refer those concerns to the provider. 
I agree  that theres little to show  that adding the cost of the will package to the mortgage  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs F. But L&G has already recognised that wasnt  suitable and offered 
to refund them any interest theyll have to pay over the life of the mortgage. So they wont  
have lost out financially as a result  of this. L&G has also offered them £150 compensation, 
which seems reasonable for any upset or inconvenience theyve been caused. So Im not 
requiring it do anything more.
The legal costs  
The CMC notes that some of the costs in respect of the legal work were charged  by the 
broker rather than the solicitor in the form of a legal  administration fee. Mr and Mrs F had to 
pay £293.75 for this, on top of the cost of their solicitors  (£229.13).
I dont find anything inherently unreasonable in the legal  administration  fee itself: there are a 
number of administrative procedures that need  not have been  carried  out by a solicitor. I 
know the CMC questions the value of the work  given that a solicitor  was involved, especially 
in view of the fee it recouped. But while I appreciate where its coming from here, ultimately  it 
was up to the broker to decide what fee it wanted  to charge for the services it provided.
These fees were set out in a Solicitors Form of Authorisation.  This confirmed Mr and 
Mrs Fs instruction to pay £250  plus VAT to the broker in respect of the legal administration  
service, on top of the legal costs paid to the solicitor (£195  plus VAT). And Mr and Mrs F 
signed that form. So I think they were  clearly informed about  the fee and what it was for  
and they agreed  to pay it. So I dont think it was unfairly charged.
The CMC says that Mr and Mrs F were also led to believe that the legal administration  
service was a pre-requisite  of the mortgage  and that they werent given the option  of 
appointing their own solicitors. But Ive not seen any evidence  of that.  
The CMC has also raised concerns that the broker received commission  for recommending  
the firm of solicitors used for the conveyancing work. But while  the complaints been with us, 
L&G has made an offer to resolve that aspect of the complaint which  the CMC has accepted. 
So I make no finding on that matter here and understand that L&G will settle the issue 
directly with the CMC.
Ref: DRN28133635The PPI policy
Mr and Mrs F complained to L&G in 2012 about  the PPI policy it sold them alongside the 
mortgage. And L&G responded to those  concerns  at that time, notifying them that they 
needed to refer any outstanding concerns  to us within six months  of that response  if they 
remained unhappy. These matters have been raised substantially outside of that period. As I 
cant see that was due to any exceptional  circumstances,  we cant look into these issues  
now.
my final decision
My final decision is that Legal  & General Partnership Services Limited has made  a fair 
reasonable offer to settle Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  so I require it to honour that offer,  but 
nothing more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 June 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2813363