K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) have 
handled a claim  on their home insurance policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision in September 2019  and set out the background of the 
complaint as:-
Mr and Mrs P had a home insurance  policy underwritten by RSA but branded  in the name of 
another organisation. Where I refer to RSA I include the other  organisation, their agents and 
representatives.
In December 2017 Mr and Mrs P contacted RSA to report damage to their roof which they 
say was caused by a storm.  They  say the claim was poorly  handled. And they were shocked 
when the claim for damage to their roof was declined.
Mr and Mrs P tell us they became aware  of the damage to their roof when they heard noises 
coming from the roof void. They went outside and observed a displaced  ridge  tile. Mr P 
explained that he went into the loft store room and fired 2 blank rounds from his blank firing 
hand gun. And Mrs P observed a squirrel  run out of the roof so they were concerned that 
there was a hole in the roof.  
Mr and Mrs P tell us there were  problems getting  emergency  repairs  carried out by the 
approved contractors under the policys home emergency cover.  So they contacted  a local 
roofing contractor that theyd used previously who completed the emergency repair.  The 
home emergency service  is underwritten  by another insurer. And Mr and Mrs P advise that 
their complaint to this business has been resolved.  
Mr and Mrs P have  described in detail  the sequence of events  and the impact on them.  They 
say the surveyor  that visited them was very rushed but did indicate  to them their claim for 
storm damage to the roof would  be met. Theyve advised that as a result of the damage  to 
the roof water has leaked through and caused further damage inside their home.
RSA say the damage to the roof was considered  to be as a result of normal deterioration 
and wear and tear over the years and not as a result of storm damage. They  agree they 
didnt handle  the claim as well as they should. And have  apologised to Mr and Mrs P and 
offered £250 compensation  for the trouble  and upset caused. 
RSA say they should have investigated  internal damage caused by water  leaking through 
the roof before repairs  were  made.  And have agreed  to cover a claim for this damage  under 
the accidental  damage section of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs P were  reluctant  to allow the appointed loss adjuster to revisit  their home and, due 
to a number of medical issues were unable to obtain  contractor  estimates at that point in time.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  feel £250 was sufficient  compensation and remained unhappy that the 
claim for damage to their roof had been declined  so they brought their complaint to this 
service.
Ref: DRN24877792Our investigators view was that the damage  wasnt consistent with a single storm and it was 
more likely as a result of wear and tear. She agreed  that the claim hadnt been  well handled 
and felt that the £250 offered by RSA was appropriate so didnt recommend it should  be 
increased.
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman  decide their case. And I set 
out my reasoning  as follows: -
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im only considering the complaint about the way RSA handled  the storm damage claim 
under Mr and Mrs Ps home insurance  policy, and not the way the home emergency claim 
was handled.  
Theres no dispute that the policy covers  damage caused by a storm. Like many  insurance 
policies, Mr and Mrs Ps policy doesnt define  a storm.  We consider that a storm is 
characterised by violent  winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snowfall. 
In this case the damage is said by Mr and Mrs P to have occurred in late December 2017.  
Having checked  a weather database  for the area of Mr and Mrs Ps home  I note the 
strongest wind recorded was 32mph.  Im not persuaded that this amounts to a storm. So, the 
claim for the slipped ridge tiles and other damage to the roof does not, in my view,  amount to 
damage caused by a storm.
The policy covers accidental damage and indeed RSA is covering some aspects of damage,  
such as that caused by water ingress  to the loft area. Ive thought  about  whether the slipped  
tiles might also be classed as accidental damage, and note that RSA has said this damage 
was due to wear and tear. The policy defines  AD as visible damage caused suddenly  and 
unexpectedly by an outside  force, which has not been caused deliberately.  But theres an 
exclusion for damage due to wear and tear which happens gradually over a period of time. 
The report  from the loss adjusters appointed  by RSA describes the nature and extent of the 
damage as:-
All of the hip tiles to the rear elevation will require re bedding in full due to them  
being loose due to the mortar failing.  8 hip tiles will require removing and refitting 
back in place. 
The hip tiles have  come  loose due to the mortar failing  to the hips over a period
of time which the recent winds have highlighted.
No other  tiles are damaged when a visual inspection has been made
The loss adjusters wrote to Mr and Mrs P and advised that they considered  the cause of the 
damage to the ridge tiles and mortar to be as a result of normal  deterioration and wear and 
tear over the years,  and not as a result of any specific incident  or the operation of an insured 
peril within  the terms of his policy. They included photographs theyd taken which  they say 
showed defective areas of mortar  which is not storm damage.  And they declined the claim. 
Ref: DRN24877793Mr and Mrs P engaged roofing contractors they had used previously to carry out emergency 
repairs and the contractors also provided a quotation for a longer  term repair. The 
contractors quotation  is headed Storm Damage and describes removing and re-bedding 
ridge tiles and re-fixing slipped tiles. But this quote is exactly  that and not a report on 
causation that has sufficient persuasive impact. 
Mr and Mrs P have  also provided information about  repairs and maintenance carried  out to 
parts of their property  including  some sections of roofing. But the area damaged in 
December 2017  wasnt one of those areas.
In the absence of a storm, I wouldnt  have expected  damage to have occurred to Mr and 
Mrs Ps roof unless there were underlying issues present.  Im more  persuaded by the report 
from the loss adjusters  that a storm wasnt the main cause of the damage, but rather wear 
and tear and deterioration  of the mortar.  And given the wear and tear Im also satisfied that 
the damage to the roof is excluded under the accidental damage section of the policy.   
There were some delays in arranging emergency repairs to the roof and water  leaked into 
the property. Mr P has described steps he took to minimise the damage  which  were  not 
entirely successful, and in some  cases led to further  damage. Their policy provides 
accidental damage  cover and RSA have agreed  to cover the damage caused by water 
leaking through the roof. 
Mr and Mrs P say they do not want RSA appointed contractors  to carry out the repairs.  RSA 
have agreed to consider a quote for repairs from a contractor of Mr and Mrs Ps choice. But 
theres been some disagreement as to what RSA require  to progress the claim. Ive seen 
that RSA have said we are able to accept  an estimate/quotation from a contractor as this 
would be an independent report.  What  we require on their report  is a breakdown  of what the 
jobs will be and the full cost. So Im satisfied  that RSA have acted reasonably and been 
clear as to what is needed.  If this hasnt already progressed Mr and Mrs P can send a 
quotation to RSA to enable  this aspect of their claim to be concluded.  
 As potentially harmful materials will need  to be removed RSA agreed to provide  alternative  
accommodation whilst the works  are carried out. Im satisfied that RSA have acted in a fair 
and reasonable manner  in respect of the claim for accidental  damage. 
Mr and Mrs P made further submission  on 16 September and reiterated a number of other 
points which  Ive considered. Mr and Mrs P have also stated that RSA have refused to 
acknowledge damage to conifer trees  that they say were damaged in the storm. As Im not 
persuaded the weather  conditions amounted  to a storm  I wont be asking  RSA to consider 
this further.
Overall I dont think the claim was well handled by RSA. The surveyor  didnt  look at the 
internal damage  or comment on it in his report and Mr and Mrs P were not told this damage 
would be covered. And they had to contact RSA more than they should  have done. 
RSA have apologised and offered £250  for the trouble  and upset caused. Im satisfied that 
this is a reasonable figure in the circumstances of this case.
I invited both parties to let me have their further  comments.
Ref: DRN24877794replies to the provisional decision 
RSA had no further comments to make.
Mr and Mrs P provided a detailed response  and said they did not accept the provisional 
decision. In summary  they stated that their home insurance policy was with the organisation 
that had branded the policy rather than RSA,  advised  that RSA said there had been a storm, 
restated the circumstances  of the claim and their complaint about RSA and the other parties 
theyd dealt with, provided further details of the damage to their roof, raised  concerns at the 
way their home emergency  claim had been handled  and expressed  concerns at the lack of 
progress with their claim for accidental damage  caused by water ingress. 
Mr and Mrs P have  also raised concerns about the competence and qualifications of RSAs  
agents and representatives.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive taken account of all the comments in the response Mr and Mrs P provided following my 
provisional decision. And while I appreciate  this will disappoint them my decision remains  as 
set out within my provisional  decision, that this complaint shouldnt  be upheld. 
I have explained  in the background to my provisional decision that when I refer to RSA I 
include the other organisation in whose  name  the policy was branded. Whilst Mr and Mrs P 
have paid their premium to the other  organisation the policy is underwritten  by RSA.  The 
policy booklet sets out that RSA is the underwriter and defines  any reference  to we in the 
policy wording as being RSA.
In their response to my provisional  decision Mr and Mrs P disagree that their complaint 
about the home emergency claim has been  resolved. I set out in my provisional findings  that 
Im not considering  the way the home emergency claim was handled. The home  emergency  
section of the policy isnt underwritten by RSA and would be subject to a separate complaint. 
I would add that when Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to this service,  they said they 
consider the involvement of the home  emergency provider has been resolved and requires 
no further investigation.
Mr and Mrs P disagree with my finding that the conditions that existed did not amount to a 
storm and say RSA and our investigator agreed  there had been a storm. Irrespective of what  
any party  says about the weather conditions Ive checked the weather records  from a 
reliable, independent and verifiable online service.  Its possibly that the local conditions were 
different to those at the weather station Ive checked but, like our investigator I dont feel the 
damage was consistent with a single storm and was likely a result  of wear and tear. Im 
persuaded by the evidence Ive seen including  photographs,  loss adjusters report, nature of 
the damage and all the circumstances  that a storm wasnt the main cause of the damage,  
but rather wear and tear and deterioration  of the mortar.
Mr and Mrs P have  raised issues that the surveyor who visited them wasnt suitably  
qualified. Ive looked at the organisation RSA appointed to handle the claim, and Im satisfied 
the claim was investigated by a specialist company with experience in claims management. 
Ref: DRN24877795I remain of the view that the claim could have been better handled. And Im satisfied that 
£250 is an appropriate amount for the trouble and upset that RSA have caused.  
There has been some confusion and delay over the ongoing accidental damage claim,  and 
Id urge both parties to cooperate and resolve this aspect of the claim. I note that RSA are 
still willing  to consider an itemised quotation for the works, which Mr and Mrs P have been 
unable to obtain. Alternatively,  RSA could arrange for its own contractors  to complete the 
repairs if Mr and Mrs P agreed to this.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 April 2020.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2487779