K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  about the advice they received from Blue Star Investments to take 
an endowment policy  in 1997  to repay  their mortgage. They  complain it wasnt  suitable for 
them as they had no investment experience and a repayment mortgage  wasnt offered as an 
option. 
They are being  represented in their complaint.
background
In 1997 Mr and Mrs A were first time buyers. They were recommended  an endowment policy  
with Norwich Union (now Aviva) to run alongside an interest only mortgage with the then 
Abbey National.  The policy was a unit linked policy where 50% of the investment was into 
the With-Profits fund and the other 50% was invested into the Managed  fund. The policy  was 
set to run for 25 years. 
In 2006 Mr and Mrs A sold their property  and surrendered the endowment policy  for 
£9,741.36. 
Mr and Mrs A complained about the advice they received to take out the endowment policy. 
But as Blue Star Investments didnt reply they asked us to look into their complaint. Our 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She wasnt persuaded the recommendation was 
unsuitable for them. Mr and Mrs As representative  disagreed and so the matter  has been 
referred to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision upholding this complaint  on 30 April 2019. I requested  
further representations from the parties  to reach  me by 30 May 2019.  
Mr and Mrs As representative want me to consider  awarding compensation as Blue Star 
Investments caused delays and didnt reply to the complaint. It also wants  us to ask for a 
copy of the calculations to be sure they will be carried out. 
Blue Star Investments hadnt  replied by the date due and so one of my investigators  chased 
for a response. On 10 June  2019 the business asked for an extension to reply  to 23 June  
2019 as the owner of the business was abroad. Before agreeing to the extension my 
investigator asked why the owner couldnt be contacted sooner. To date we have heard 
nothing further  from Blue Star Investments.  Im satisfied Blue Star Investments has had 
sufficient time to provide any further evidence  or arguments. It is now appropriate to move  
this complaint to the final stage to avoid  any further  delay in resolving this matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly say there is only limited  information available from the sale of the policy,  which 
isnt surprising as the policy was surrendered in 2006 and given businesses  data protection 
obligations. So my decision is based  on the limited information I do have, the application 
form, the policy schedule  and the information  Mr and Mrs A provided in the mortgage 
endowment questionnaire.  
Ref: DRN26940632At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs A were first time buyers with one young  dependant. Mr A 
was a machine  operator and Mrs A was a food packer. There  are no details about  their 
income at the time but given their occupation  I consider they were likely basic rate tax 
payers. Mr and Mrs A didnt have any previous investment  experience and held no savings, 
so it doesnt appear  they had any disposable income.  
Mr and Mrs A were  advised to take out a unit linked endowment policy. It was invested 50% 
into the With Profits fund, which is widely accepted as being low risk, and 50% into the 
managed fund, generally accepted to be medium  risk. So the investment overall was low- 
medium risk with values being able to rise and fall on a daily basis.  This type of policy  
wouldnt be suitable for someone who didnt  want to take any risk, or was only willing  to take 
a low risk, with the repayment  of their mortgage.  
Having considered Mr and Mrs As circumstances  at the time Im not persuaded they were  in 
a position to take any risk with their mortgage. 
There is no fact find available so its unclear  if Blue Star Investments assessed their attitude  
or appetite  for risk. Mr and Mrs A had no previous investment or mortgage experience. Their 
occupations wouldnt have given them any financial awareness of investments and didnt 
allow for the building up savings with which they could mitigate any risk of a shortfall.  So its 
hard to see how they could absorb  the impact of a policy which could lose value overnight.  
They also had a dependant at the time which they were providing for. These circumstances 
dont strike  me as being  those of customers who are in a position  to accept taking any level 
of risk with the repayment of their mortgage.  
The business said it understands  it was standard practice to advise customers to seek  
further independent advice or sign a waiver  that they dont want independent  advice. And 
this is something the investigator has repeated but Im unsure why. I would find it highly 
unusual for an independent adviser  to advise someone to corroborate  their advice with 
another party and in my experience of deciding mortgage endowment  complaints I have 
never come across  this practice. In any event,  there  is no evidence  Mr and Mrs A were 
advised to seek  further advice from another  party,  or that they did so. Im therefore satisfied 
Mr and Mrs A went ahead with the endowment policy  based  on the advice Blue Star 
Investments gave them. 
And for the reasons given, I dont find the recommendation  made  by Blue Star Investments 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs A.
Mr and Mrs As representative has asked that I consider making an award  for inconvenience  
caused by the delays  in Blue Star Investments  handling of this complaint. However, had I 
considered an award appropriate I would have set this out in my provisional findings.  The 
calculation I have set out below is carried out until the date of settlement and so Im satisfied 
any delays are accounted for. 
The representative has also asked that we obtain  a copy  of the calculations. As it will see 
from this decision we havent had any meaningful contact from Blue Star Investments, but I 
can ask that it provide  a copy of its calculations with any redress that might  be payable  as a 
result of those. I know Mr and Mrs A are worried about  Blue Star Investments actually paying 
the compensation. If they choose  to accept my decision  it becomes legally binding on both 
parties and can be enforced through court if necessary. 
putting things right
Ref: DRN26940633The regulator has laid down  a standard approach for calculating  compensation for 
complaints like this in a guidance note called Handling Mortgage  Endowment Complaints, 
often referred to as RU89 calculations.  As per that guidance Mr and Mrs A are to be put 
back in the position they would have been  in, so far as is possible, had they not been 
recommended an unsuitable policy. 
In this case, that means putting Mr and Mrs A in the position had they been  sold a 
repayment mortgage (capital and interest) in 1997  over a 25 year term. To put matters right 
Blue Star Investments need  to pay Mr and Mrs A A+B where:
A = the loss identified by carrying out a loss calculation in accordance with RU89 
guidance to the date of the repayment of their mortgage, using the surrender value 
as at that date;
B = interest at 8% simple  a year on the amount  of A from the date of repayment to 
the date of settlement.   
If Blue Star Investments considers its legally required to deduct income  tax from the 8% 
interest, it must send  a tax deduction  certificate if Mr and Mrs A ask for one.
Blue Star Investments also needs to provide Mr and Mrs A with a copy  of the calculations it 
carries out. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require  Blue Star 
Investments to pay Mr and Mrs A compensation in accordance with what  I have set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2694063