K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr W and Halifax  agree the sale took place through a postal application. Halifax  has 
provided me with a copy of the credit  card application completed at the time of sale.  In order  
to get PPI, a box on the credit card application needed to be selected. Having looked at     
Mr Ws application I can see that this box was ticked and that Mr W has signed the form  
which I think indicates he agreed with all the information on the form and wanted PPI. If     
Mr W didnt want  PPI, he didnt have to tick for it. 
So having  taken everything in to consideration, I think Halifax  made  it clear  that Mr W didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this.
Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr W got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Mr W has said he didnt  need PPI as he would have received six months full followed six 
months half sick pay from his employer at the time.  But this policy would cover 10% of the 
outstanding balance of his account  for up to 12 months if he was too sick to work or he lost 
his job. And this would  be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, any other sick pay he 
would receive at a full rate. So I still think the PPI would have been useful.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said but these points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr W paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Mr W back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr W now Ive issued my final decision.  
Ref: DRN20726222my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2072622