K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains about advice given by Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) to invest £150,000 in 
a Barclays Personal  Investment  Portfolio (BPIM).
background
In February 2000,  Ms M took advice from Barclays to invest  £150,000 into a BPIM portfolio. 
Ms M surrendered the investment in 2001  and received back  £129,430. Ms M believes that 
Barclays recommendation was unsuitable  for her because  the level of risk was too high for 
an inexperienced first-time investor, she was advised to invest too much and had little 
capacity for loss. Ms M also feels that Barclays gave  insufficient time for her to reflect  on the 
recommendation made.
Barclays have upheld  the complaint and say that on review they consider £90,000 should 
have been invested in very low risk investments. Had this happened they say the balance of 
the portfolio would have been suitable for Ms Ms needs. Barclays have calculated redress 
against the Bank of England fixed rate bonds benchmark plus interest.  Theyve offered 
£30,368.17 plus an additional  £200  for trouble and upset caused by delays.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  He thought the recommendation by Barclays  was 
unsuitable because  Ms M was exposed to more risk than she wanted to take and was 
advised to invest  too much  given her circumstances. He recommended  assessing  
compensation for the entire amount invested against a benchmark with half the
investment in FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return Index and the other half 
against the average rate from fixed rate bonds. Our investigator  agreed  that £200  was a fair 
and reasonable award for the trouble and upset caused. 
Barclays disagree with the view.  They  maintain their offer is fair and reasonable.
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account Ms Ms circumstances at the time. Ms M was inexperienced and a 
first-time investor. She had received £180,000  from a property sale and was looking to invest 
for some capital growth  but had limited capacity for loss. So, I think capital  preservation  was 
also important to her. 
Barclays rely upon their definition of medium risk as:
You are a more typical investor, requiring a proportion of your savings  to be in cash form. 
For the remainder of your investment, you are prepared  to see a greater degree of 
fluctuation than the low risk investor, in return for a potentially higher level of long-term  
growth.
Barclays say that medium  risk capital growth  within the portfolio was made up of around 
77% equities, 19% bonds and 4% cash. I think its unlikely Ms M wouldve understood the 
Ref: DRN26295932risks her funds were  being exposed to from the generic risk definition. And theres nothing to 
show this was clearly explained  to her at the time.
In my view this blend of assets exposed Ms M to more risk than she was willing to take. 
Barclays agree that Ms M ended up taking too high a level of risk overall and should have 
been advised to keep  to an overall  lower  risk approach with her investments. Barclays  also 
accept they advised Ms M to invest too much into the portfolio, they now say only £60,000 
should have been invested;  a substantially lower amount. Taking these  factors  into account, 
its clear that the advice  given to Ms M was unsuitable. So, its fair and reasonable to put 
things right for Ms M.
Putting things right
Barclays agree they should compensate Ms M. Theyve said that £90,000 should have been 
placed in very low/capital  protected fixed investments, cash, bonds, termed  deposits,  
national savings, cash ISA or an interest-bearing savings account. Theyve offered to 
compensate Ms M on this sum,  using  the Bank of England, fixed rate bond index as a 
comparator, plus 8% interest.  Barclays say this effectively realigns the portfolio and the 
investment of the balance of funds in the portfolio was suitable  for Ms M.
Im not satisfied that the offer is fair and reasonable. Barclays suggest artificially  removing 
over half the investment to try and retrospectively reduce the overall risk. But theres no 
persuasive evidence  that Barclays would have  recommended this particular approach  at the 
time. And Im mindful that the equity split of the funds invested would have remained high at 
77%. 
So, the correct  starting  point is that the recommendation  shouldnt have been made at all. I 
think that if the right advice had been  given,  its likely that Ms M would have invested 
£150,000 differently.
It is not possible to say precisely what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied
that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given her circumstances and
objectives when  she invested.
So, Barclays  should make  an assessment  in respect  of the whole £150,000 invested:
Compare the performance of Ms Ms investment with that of the benchmark shown below 
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If the 
actual value is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
They should  also pay interest as set out below.
Provide the details of the calculation in a clear,  simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
BPIM
Portfoliosurrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private date of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
Ref: DRN26295933Investors  
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  you should  use
the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity as published
by the Bank of England.  The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous
month. Apply those  rates to the investment on an annually compounded  basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the
calculation from that point on.
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if
Barclays total all those  payments and deduct  that figure at the end instead of deducting
periodically.
Ref: DRN26295934Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Ms M wanted some capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital. The FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA 
Stock Market Income  total return index)  is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset  classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds.  It would be a fair 
measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Ms Ms risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Ms M into that position. It does not mean 
that Ms M would have invested  50% of her money in a fixed  rate bond  and 50% in 
some kind of index  tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects  the sort of return Ms M could have obtained  from investments 
suited to her objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money
since the end date.
In addition to the compensation set above,  Barclays should also pay £200  in compensation
for delays.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding this complaint. I direct  Barclays Bank UK Plc to put 
things right for Ms M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2020.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2629593