K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Caxton FX Ltd has charged  him £1.50 each time hes used his prepaid 
currency card in the UK. As a result, Mr A has paid around £70 in charges. 
background
Mr A has a prepaid currency card with Caxton. Since 2016 Mr A has incurred charges of 
£1.50 each time he used  his card within the UK. Mr A says he asked  whether  Caxton  
charges for using  his card and was told one would only be applied  when using the card in a 
cash machine. 
Between August 2018 and October  2018  Mr A was charged for using his card in the UK 46 
times. Mr A complained and Caxton responded. Caxton said it had listened to all his calls but 
couldnt find anything  to show itd told him no fees would apply if he used his prepaid 
currency card in the UK. Caxton said the account  terms and conditions  Mr A had agreed to 
accept advised  a £1.50 charge applies each time the card is used for purchases in the UK. 
Mr A referred his complaint to this service and an adjudicator looked at what had happened.  
They thought Caxton had dealt with Mr As complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr A disagreed and asked for his complaint  to be appealed so its been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Caxton says its listened to lots of calls with Mr A during the period hes held the card but 
that the majority relate to disputed transaction requests he made. Caxtons confirmed its 
used Mr As foreign  telephone number to complete  a search  of its systems as well as his UK 
number but been unable  to find any relevant  calls.  
Weve been provided with some calls by Caxton, but not every  call its had with Mr A. I know 
Mr A has raised concerns that weve only listened to a limited number of calls.  But I need  to 
explain that I dont  think the calls Mr A has had with Caxton  since  taking out the card are the 
key to this case.  From  what Ive seen, the key information here is the account terms Mr A 
agreed to when he took out the prepaid  currency card with Caxton. 
The account  terms are clear. They say that domestic (UK) point of sale transactions will 
incur a £1.50 charge. I know Mr A is upset  that some of his transactions are for lower 
amounts than the £1.50 charge but theres  nothing in the terms that says the charge will only 
be applied  over a certain  level of spending. The terms  say the charge will apply  for using the 
card in the UK and Im satisfied Caxtons acted in line with that. 
Mr A first incurred a charge of this nature  in 2016.  But Mr A didnt use his card in the UK 
again until August  2018. Between August 2018 and October  2018  Mr A incurred  46 charges 
of £1.50 by using his card in the UK. Whilst I appreciate  Mr A wasnt  aware  of the charge, 
Ive not found  this was due to an error by Caxton.  
Ref: DRN23026732Caxtons said it sends  regular statements  to Mr A so after the first month of using his card in 
the UK hed have been aware  of the charges being applied.  I think thats a reasonable point 
to make as the charges wouldve been set out in the information  Caxton sent to Mr A. 
Mr A has forwarded a screen  shot of an advertisement for his prepaid currency card. And I 
agree it says transactions are free. But the screen shot hes sent doesnt fully set out the 
terms of the product Caxton offers and customers are still bound  by the full account terms. 
The advert is correct in saying transactions are free when the card is used abroad. But the 
terms explain that various transactions will incur a charge. Ive not found that the advert was 
misleading. 
Taking everything together, Ive not been  persuaded Caxton made  a mistake. The account 
terms Mr A agreed to accept are clear in explaining  a £1.50  charge will apply each time the 
prepaid currency card is used to make  a purchase  in the UK. Theres no minimum limit for 
transactions so the fee can be applied  each time the cards used in the UK. From the calls 
Ive listened to Im satisfied Mr A was told transactions abroad dont attract  a charge and Ive 
not found anything to show  he was given misleading  information.  Ive carefully considered  
everything Mr A and Caxton have  told us but Ive not found  any evidence  of an error.  As a 
result, Im not telling Caxton to take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject  my decision 
before 22 February  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2302673