K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service Santander UK Plc provided when he fell victim to a scam. 
He is also unhappy  it blocked his account.  Hed like compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by these two incidents. 
background
Mr S paid £125 on 18 November 2018 to hire a bus for a wedding  transfer.  However, the 
recipient of the funds claimed to not have received the money  and then stopped 
communicating with Mr S. 
Mr S called Santander numerous times on the morning of 18 November 2018 to ask whether 
the payment had been sent.  Santander  confirmed that it had been, and it had credited the 
recipients account.  
As the situation  developed Mr S asked Santander for assistance as he needed the money  to 
obtain a bus for the wedding. The wedding was taking place that day and Mr S was very 
worried about the consequences if he couldnt  provide the bus as promised. 
Santander said there was nothing  it could  do to help at that time as it couldnt recall  a faster 
payment within  the first 24 hours.  Mr S asked if they could loan him the money and hed pay 
it back, but Santander said it wouldnt be able to do that either. 
Mr S called back the following day to report hed been the victim of a scam as he could no 
longer get in contact with the person  hed sent the money too. Santander raised a scam 
claim at that point and contacted the bank the money had been  sent to. The receiving bank 
confirmed that no money  remained in the account.  However, the £125 was subsequently  
refunded to Mr Ss account on 23 November 2018. 
Mr S is also unhappy that Santander blocked his account following it receiving  a fraud  claim 
from the lady he was meant to provide  the bus for. His account was blocked  on 21 
November 2018  while Santander investigated.  Once it had spoken to Mr S and verified his 
version of events, it unblocked  the account  on 23 November  2018. Mr S said this block  
meant he didnt receive a credit into his account  which he needed  to make other payments; 
resulting in him having to use funds  hed earmarked for other things  to make the payments. 
Santander explained to Mr S that if it receives a report of fraud from another  bank  it has to 
take this seriously  and investigate. It did this, accepted his version of events and marked  it 
as a dispute rather than fraud. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  and didnt uphold it. Although he thought 
Santander couldve raised the scam claim on 18 November 2018,  rather than the following 
day, he didnt  think it wouldve  meant  Mr S wouldve  received  his money  back  any quicker.  
He was satisfied  Santander was able to block the account whilst it investigated  the scam 
claim and pointed out its investigation was done  in a timely manner. 
The investigator noted in his view that Santander  refunded the money  to Mr S on 23 
November 2018.  However, he has since clarified it was the receiving bank that refunded  the 
money to Mr Ss account.  
Mr S remained unhappy,  pointing out that the bank of the person who sent the money to him 
was quick to act and contact Santander when she reported him, yet Santander didnt do that 
Ref: DRN26063212when he called. He also re-emphasised that he didnt think  it was fair Santander blocked his 
account. 
Mr S mentioned other  occasions  that Santander has blocked  his account over the years  and 
provided bad service and feels hes been  discriminated  against. He wanted  all this to be 
considered. Our investigator explained this wouldnt be considered  under this complaint, but 
he could set up new complaints about these issues separately. 
The other points  have been  referred to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear what happened to Mr S. I know he feels  very strongly  that Santander 
shouldve done  more when he called on 18 November 2018.  I understand he was in a very 
difficult situation and he needed access to the money as a matter of urgency. 
When Mr S first called Santander on 18 November,  he was concerned  that his payment 
hadnt reached the recipients account  because this is what  the recipient was telling him. 
Santander assured  him that it had been sent.  This service has confirmed with the receiving 
bank that the money credited the recipients account at 9.47am on 18 November 2018. Im 
therefore satisfied  Santander correctly advised  Mr S at this point.  
Santander told Mr S that it couldnt just recall the payment, and have it credited back  to his 
account there and then.  I can confirm that once  a faster payment has been sent, it cant  be 
reversed in that way. Santander can contact the receiving bank and try to recall the 
payment, but this wouldnt be immediate. 
I can appreciate this mustve been very distressing  for Mr S to hear.  Having listened  to the 
calls he had with Santander  on 18 November, I can see how desperate the situation  was 
and the stress he was under to get that money  back. However, Santander wasnt under any 
obligation to refund Mr S in that moment and correctly advised him they couldnt get him the 
money back that day. 
As the investigator  mentioned  in his findings, there is a different process for a bank to follow 
if their customer  reports they have been the victim of a scam. 
When a customer calls explaining they believe theyve been scammed, its still the case that 
the payment cant simply be recalled   this isnt possible for a faster payment as Ive already 
explained. So, the payment wouldnt automatically  credit back into an account.  Instead, what  
should happen is for Santander to contact  the bank where the payment was sent,  to notify it 
of the scam. If the money remains, the receiving bank would make arrangements to send 
this back.
Ive listened to the calls Mr S had with Santander  on 18 November and I dont  think it was 
entirely clear  at this point  that Mr S had been  the victim of a scam. The facts  of the situation 
were still developing, and Mr S just believed the recipient hadnt received the money yet. 
Ref: DRN26063213You could  argue that Santander is the expert in these situations and couldve probed Mr S 
more to find out what had happened. But in any event, as the investigator  has said,  I dont  
think it wouldve made a difference here and Ill explain  why. 
Santander did raise  a scam claim the following day, on 19 November 2018, as it was more 
apparent by that point that Mr S had been  scammed. Santander made  the call to the 
receiving bank to notify it and ask if any money  remained  that could be returned.  The 
receiving bank explained that no money  remained.
The receiving bank  has confirmed to this service that the recipient transferred the money out 
of their account at 10.07am on 18 November  2018. Therefore, even if Santander had 
recognised Mr S had been the victim  of a scam on the afternoon of 18 November 2018 and 
taken steps to report it to the receiving bank at that point, it was already too late for the 
money to be returned  from that account  the recipient had already transferred it on. 
So, given Santander couldnt recall the faster payment as Mr S wanted  and a quicker scam 
report wouldnt have made a difference, I dont think Mr S would ever have been  able to get 
his money back on 18 November 2018. Santander  arent at fault for this, so I wont  be 
upholding this part of Mr Ss complaint. 
The refund
The receiving bank  sent the £125 back to Mr Ss account on 23 November 2018. The money  
had been transferred out of the recipients account  as already explained. However,  on this 
occasion the receiving bank  was able to trace the funds  onto another  account and retrieve  
them from there. 
Account block 
Santander received  a report from a third-party bank  on 21 November 2018 with a claim 
against Mr S. This report was linked to the issues with the wedding transport. 
Santander blocked Mr Ss account so it could investigate. Im satisfied it is entitled to do this 
and acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when doing so. I understand Mr S 
was also a victim in this situation so feels the block was unfair,  but Santander would not 
know that without  investigating first. 
Santander spoke  to Mr S and requested  evidence  from him as to what  had happened. 
Santander was satisfied with what Mr S told it and the block was therefore lifted  on 23 
November 2018.  Im therefore satisfied there  were  no delays in the action Santander  took 
and it lifted the block as soon as its investigation had been completed. 
I appreciate the block may have caused Mr S some inconvenience and Im sorry to hear this 
given the circumstances of what happened. But as Ive explained, I dont think  Santander 
made a mistake in applying the block. It follows that I wont be making  any recommendations 
for it to compensate  Mr S for the inconvenience he faced  due to the block. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against  Santander  UK Plc.
Ref: DRN26063214Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2606321