K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  with a store  card.
Ms D says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have  given me any new information  for me to consider. Because of this I see
no reason to change  my provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
copy of provisional decision
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, should  
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Ms D says FICL  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a store  card.
background
Ref: DRN23964972This complaint is about  a PPI policy  taken out on a store account in 2004.
As I understand it, the policy cost was likely to be £1.50 per £100 Ms D owed on her store card.  The 
policy would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance  on the card each month if Ms D couldnt  work 
because she had an accident, was unwell  or lost her job  this would  be until she returned to work  or 
until the outstanding balance was paid off.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed so the complaint  has been passed to
me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Ms Ds case.
I intend  to not uphold Ms Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make  it clear to Ms D that the policy was optional and get her consent  before PPI could  
be applied to the account. Ive been given a copy of the application form completed by Ms D at the 
time of the sale and I can see that there is a section to apply for Account Cover  the name  used by 
FICL for PPI. In this section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover.
Ms D has signed the section  to confirm she wanted the cover.  If Ms D didnt want to take out the PPI 
she could have left this section blank.  And Ms D has signed  the overall  application  form which 
suggests it reflected  what she wanted.
So based on what Ive seen and been told, I think FICL made it clear the policy was optional  and Ms 
D chose  to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it. 
From what we know generally about these sales, and from looking at the paperwork supplied,  I dont 
think FICL did recommend  the policy to Ms D. So it didnt have  to check if the policy was right for her. 
But FICL did need to make  sure it gave Ms D clear enough information  about  the policy  to enable her 
to decide for herself  if she should take the policy.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But 
even if FICL  had given her better or clearer information, I dont think  it would have made a difference. 
I still think she would have taken out the policy. I say this because Ms D was eligible for the policy and 
she wasnt affected  by any of the main  limitations to the cover, such  as having unusual working 
arrangements or suffering  from a medical  condition  of which she was already  aware.
Ms D said she was entitled  at least  six months  sick pay from her employer. Ive looked carefully at the 
length of time Ms D had been with her employer,  as well as what  we know generally about  her 
employer. And, without  persuasive  evidence  to support what shes told us, I think its unlikely she 
wouldve been  entitled to this amount  of sick pay when the policy  was sold. Ms D has also said she 
didnt have any other  means of making  her repayments.
When taking everything into consideration, I think this policy could have provided a useful  benefit to 
Ms D, especially as she didnt have any other means with which to meet her repayments if she wasnt 
working. So, overall,  I currently  dont think Ms D has lost out as a result of anything that FICL may 
have done wrong.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I currently dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN23964973
Ref: DRN2396497