K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
handled a claim  under their home insurance  policy after they suffered an escape of sewage  
at their property.
background
In August  2018,  a plumber working  in Mr and Mrs Cs house accidentally  broke a pipe, 
causing an escape of sewage.
Mr and Mrs C, along with their two children, moved  out of the property into alternative  
accommodation (AA). They made a claim under their policy. RSA accepted  the claim. It 
arranged for the property  to be dried and to pay for the AA until the property was habitable 
again. It was agreed that RSAs contractors would  undertake the repair work.
In September  2018, the property was declared  dry and Mr and Mrs C and their children 
moved back in. The repair work  was due to start in October 2018 but this was delayed.
Mr and Mrs C became  unhappy at the handling of the claim. They complained  to RSA about 
various issues, including the delays and the fact that RSA hadnt  agreed to extend their stay 
in AA.
RSA issued a final response letter in November  2018. It was satisfied that it had provided  
suitable AA for as long as it was necessary. It acknowledged the planned start of the repair 
work had been  postponed at short notice and that there had been  a delay in making 
payment in settlement of contents which had been damaged  by the escape of sewage. It 
offered compensation of £125.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the offer. They continued  to raise other concerns, including  that 
eight items  of clothing had gone missing.  RSA wouldnt add to its compensation offer.  
Mr and Mrs C therefore referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  While she disagreed 
with many of the points  raised by Mr and Mrs C, who believed  they should be entitled  to 
compensation in excess of £11,000, she nonetheless considered  that there had been 
failings on the part of RSA. In particular,  she considered it hadnt shown that it wasnt  
responsible for losing the clothes items and so she thought it should pay Mr and Mrs C £577 
to enable them to replace  these. She also thought there had been some  poor 
communication and unnecessary delays which had caused the claim to drag on for a lot 
longer than necessary. She thought  RSAs  offer of £125 was insufficient  compensation for 
this and that it should increase the payment by £375 to make a total payment of £500.
Mr and Mrs C accepted  the investigators  findings but RSA did not. It considered that it had 
provided all the evidence that could  reasonably  be expected to show  the clothing items had 
been returned to Mr and Mrs C. It furthermore considered  the proposed £500 compensation 
to be excessive.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN28114462my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. 
I shall explain why.
Mr and Mrs C raised  various points about  the way their claim was handled. Like the 
investigator, I dont  agree  that RSA was at fault in all the ways  suggested  by Mr and Mrs C.
Mr and Mrs C say the AA was inadequate  for their needs because they had to share a hotel  
room with their two children. However,  the AA was needed  urgently and Mr and Mrs C had 
to stay there  for less than a month. Im satisfied that a hotel was therefore the most 
appropriate type of AA. Mr and Mrs C said that they wanted AA near the childrens school 
and chose the hotel themselves. They have acknowledged that their children were too young 
for a separate room.  They  now say, however, that they should  have been  given two rooms 
with a connecting door but RSA has pointed out that Mr and Mrs C didnt raise this objection  
at the time. Furthermore, Mr and Mrs C havent  shown that such  accommodation  was 
available at the time in their preferred location. Im satisfied that RSA acted  appropriately in 
the provision of AA.
Mr and Mrs C also consider that they should  have been allowed to remain in AA and were  
forced to move  back to their home  before it was ready. RSA agreed to pay for the AA until 
the property was dry. At that point, Im satisfied  the property was habitable.  It had kitchen 
and bathroom  facilities. It may have  been cramped and uncomfortable due to the fact that 
some rooms were waiting to undergo repair but I consider it was reasonable for RSA to say 
it was stopping AA payments.  If Mr and Mrs C wanted to remain  in AA they could have done 
so but I consider it was fair for RSA to say it would be at their own expense.
Mr and Mrs C say that family members were  due to stay with them but this wasnt  possible 
due to the delays in resolving the claim and so the family members incurred the cost of 
staying in a hotel. Mr and Mrs C think RSA should meet  that cost. I disagree.  Even  if there 
had been no delays, Im not persuaded that the repair work could reasonably have been 
expected to be completed by the time of the planned stay and the policy  doesnt  provide 
cover for AA for people who dont normally live at the property.
In respect of the missing clothes, the sequence of events is that on 31 August 2018, RSAs  
agent removed  clothes from the property  so that it could  arrange for these to be assessed, 
laundered if necessary, and returned. On 11 September 2018, Mr C said he needed some  of 
his work  clothes. RSAs  agent therefore  arranged for these to be laundered separately and 
returned to Mr C on 14 September  2018. It then arranged for the bulk of the clothing to be 
laundered. This was completed by 8 October 2018.  Mr and Mrs C said they wanted further 
items so the agent arranged for most  of the clothing  to be returned on 11 October 2018. It 
arranged for the remainder of the items to be returned when Mr and Mrs C had full storage 
space restored on 3 December 2018.
Shortly after the final delivery had taken place,  Mr and Mrs C contacted  RSA to say that 
eight items  were missing.
RSA says the missing  items were returned  on 11 October 2018.  RSAs agent has provided 
inventory lists. It has also provided  photos  showing it had possession  of some  of the items 
which are now reported missing. However,  the agent returned the items to the house when 
Mr and Mrs C werent  there. And while  this was necessary for practical  reasons,  it means  
Ref: DRN28114463that Mr and Mrs C couldnt sign to confirm what had been received. Furthermore, the photos 
which have been  provided show only that RSA had taken the items; they dont show  the 
items were safely returned.
RSAs agent is adamant  that it returned the same  number of items  that it removed from the 
property and that the items could not have gone missing.  Mr and Mrs C are equally adamant  
that after unpacking all the returned contents,  there was no trace of these items. It is very 
difficult to know what has happened. However,  on balance  I am inclined to believe Mr and 
Mrs C. In the absence  of conclusive evidence to show otherwise, I think  it is possible that the 
items have  somehow gone missing while in the possession of RSAs  agent, bearing in mind  
that they needed to be sent off for laundering and were returned to Mr and Mrs C in three  
different batches.  Mr and Mrs C have said the items  will cost £577 to replace. I consider that 
RSA should pay Mr and Mrs C this amount in compensation for the loss.
There were also delays  on the claim. These  occurred after the property  had been  dried  and 
Mr and Mrs C were back living in it. The repair work was due to start on 15 October 2018. 
However, RSAs contractor postponed this at very short notice.  I consider  this would have 
been very frustrating  to Mr and Mrs C, given  that they were  living  in difficult  conditions at the 
time.
The contractor said that it would instead start work on 22 October 2018. Unfortunately, 
before that date Mr C inadvertently flushed a disconnected toilet  causing an escape of water.  
This required further drying  to take place.  RSAs contractor therefore said it would have  to 
further postpone the start date. I cant reasonably hold RSA responsible  for the error made 
by Mr C. However, the escape  of water was less significant than the event which  led to the 
original claim  and damage was confined  to a smaller area.  So Im unsure why the contractor 
couldnt start work on those areas of the house which were unaffected by the latest incident.
The property was declared dry again  on 27 October 2018. RSAs  contractor said it would 
return to start work on 12 November 2018.  However, on the day it was supposed to start 
work, the contractor again postponed this.
The contractor eventually  started work on 14 November 2018, some two months  after the 
property had been declared  dry following the original incident. The contractor assured 
Mr and Mrs C that the work  would  be completed  by the end of November 2018. In the event, 
the work  wasnt completed  until 18 December 2018. However, there  were  still a number of 
snagging issues and these werent eventually  resolved until 25 February 2018.
I appreciate that claims of this nature can be difficult to resolve and Mr and Mrs C should 
have expected a degree  of unavoidable disruption to their lives. Furthermore, the claim  was 
set back to an extent by the incident with the disconnected toilet, for which RSA wasnt to 
blame. However, I consider that the claim could nonetheless have been handled better, both 
before RSA issued  its final response letter and afterwards. There  were unnecessary delays 
and poor communication, particularly over explaining what  work was included  within  the 
scope. And both Mr and Mrs C had health issues  to contend with over this period.
Mr and Mrs C have said they want to be compensated  for the time they have spent on 
dealing with the claim and have suggested this should be at the rate of £150 an hour. We 
wouldnt normally compensate consumers for their time in this way and Im not persuaded it 
is appropriate in this case. However, taking everything into account, I agree with the 
investigator that £125 is insufficient compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused 
to Mr and Mrs C and that this should be increased  by £375 to a total of £500.
Ref: DRN28114464my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr and Mrs C £577 to compensate them 
for their lost items of clothing  and a total of £500  to compensate them for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 July 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2811446