K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plcs  solicitors  delayed the completion of his mortgage 
application and that the charge  was incorrectly registered over his property.
background
Mr H re-mortgaged his property from another lender  to Santander. He says that the solicitor  
that dealt with the conveyancing delayed in requesting local authority searches, which  meant 
the mortgage couldnt complete on time, so he paid more interest to his previous mortgage 
provider. Santander  will accept indemnity insurance  in place of searches up to a certain  level 
of mortgage balance, so he says either Santander or the solicitors should have advised him 
to reduce his mortgage application slightly so it could have completed sooner.
Mr H also complains about  the registration  of the mortgage over his property. He owns  a 
house and some land. On the land is another house, which is occupied by a third party on a 
long lease. The freehold interest  of the leased  house is included on the title of Mr Hs house, 
and he says he wanted the leased  house excluded  from the mortgage. He says he was told 
this could be done, but the mortgage was registered  over the whole of the land, including the 
other property. Santander wont agree to split the title unless the other property is sold.
When the complaint  came  to us, Santander maintained it hadnt done anything  wrong,  but 
offered to pay Mr H £308.22  as a gesture of goodwill, which  was the amount he said was the 
additional interest hed paid to his previous mortgage provider. Our investigator  thought  that 
was a fair offer so Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A substantial  part of Mr Hs complaint relates to the actions of the solicitors firm which was 
involved in the re-mortgage. Mr H wanted  the re-mortgage to complete quickly  so that he 
wouldnt go on to the previous lenders  standard variable rate (SVR), which would  result  in 
his payments going up. 
Prior to the involvement of the solicitors, I think the mortgage application was processed at a 
reasonable speed. Santander received it from Mr Hs broker  in early August 2018, requested 
some further  information, and then instructed a valuation in late August. The application was 
approved, subject to the valuation, at the same time, and a mortgage offer was issued on 
6 September.  
Mr H wanted the mortgage to complete  by 1 October. In fact, it completed on 9 October. This 
was still less than two months  from the date of the initial application, and in general thats not 
an unreasonable period for an application  to a new lender to take. 
Once the mortgage offer was issued on 6 September, the main responsibility for keeping  
things moving passed from Santander  to the solicitors. The solicitors were acting for 
Santander to ensure  its charge was registered over the property in place of the old lenders 
charge. When lending money  secured  against a property, Santander  like any other lender 
 wants to ensure  that the property  is good security. In essence, this means that it will 
instruct a valuer  to carry out a valuation to ensure the propertys worth more than the 
Ref: DRN25642172mortgage balance.  It will also instruct its own solicitors to investigate the legal title to the 
property to make sure there arent  any problems  or restrictions that would impact on the 
property being  sold. This is because if anything  goes  wrong  with the mortgage  the lender 
could repossess and sell the property.  If the property cant  be sold, or is worth less than the 
mortgage balance,  the lender might not be able to recover the money  it lent. These sorts of 
checks are common  to all mortgage lending.
The solicitors told Mr H that Santander  required searches, rather than indemnity insurance in 
place of searches,  because of the mortgage balance.  He says that the solicitors told him 
Santander insisted  on full searches for mortgages of £500,000  or more  so if the solicitors 
had advised him to reduce his mortgage  balance by £1, to £499,999, a full search wouldnt 
have been necessary. I dont think the solicitors  were under any duty to advise Mr H to 
reduce his balance by £1. They were acting for Santander, not for Mr H. 
Its not clear from the evidence I have that Santander was aware, until the last minute, that a 
completion date before  1 October was important for Mr H. In any case, Ive seen from the 
records of the application  that it issued a mortgage  offer in less than a month from when 
Mr H applied and theres no evidence of any delay on Santanders part. Although it required 
the searches to be done, this is a standard part of the re-mortgaging process. The solicitors  
requested the searches shortly  after receiving  the mortgage offer, and werent  in control  of 
how long they could take. Overall, the process  took around two months, which  is reasonable 
for a re-mortgage from one lender  to another.
In any case, Santander has offered to refund Mr H the additional interest  he says he paid to 
his old lender, of £308.22. I think this is fair, as it puts Mr H back in the position  he would 
have been in had the mortgage completed  before 1 October. And the additional costs  he 
says he incurred  in emails and calls  seem  to me mainly  to relate to the issue  of the 
charge. In respect  of that, I dont think Santander  did anything wrong. I think theres been 
some confusion and mis-communication, but I dont think Santander has acted unfairly.
Mr Hs property is registered under a single title at the Land Registry. On the land subject to 
this title, there is Mr Hs house  and another house which  is subject to a long leasehold.
The leased  property has its own title entry at the Land Registry too. But that entry is the 
leasehold title  owned by the current lessees who live in the property. Any leasehold  
property will have two titles  the leasehold and freehold titles.  The leasehold can be bought 
and sold and gives the leasehold  owner the right to live in the property for the remaining 
term of the lease, so is an interest  in the land that must  be registered. At the end of the 
lease, the right to the property reverts to the freeholder  who often receives  rent and has 
other ongoing rights in the meantime. That freehold  interest is a separate  interest in the 
same land, which is separately registered.
So the current owners of the leasehold  own the leasehold title. Their leasehold is not 
affected by Santanders charge over Mr Hs property and it does not show on their title entry.
However the freehold interest, owned  by Mr H, is included in the same title entry  as his 
residential property,  mortgaged to Santander.
Its not possible to record a charge over only part of a title entry.  The charge is registered 
over the whole title. So what Mr H was asking Santander to agree  to and asking the 
solicitors to do  register its charge only over his residence, not the leased property  wasnt  
something that could  be done. As Ive explained, Santanders charge wasnt  registered  over 
Ref: DRN25642173the separate leasehold title owned  by the leaseholders.  But it was registered over Mr Hs 
freehold interest in the property, because that interest was included  in the same property title 
as his residential property.
The only way to avoid  this happening was for the titles to be split before the mortgage 
completed  separating Mr Hs residence and the freehold to the leasehold property into 
different entries  on the Land  Registry.  But that wasnt  what Mr H was asking Santander to 
do. 
The solicitors did confirm  with Santander that it was happy to proceed with the mortgage 
knowing that part of the property it had security over was subject to a long lease, with that 
long lease not being included in the security. Santander checked with the valuer, who 
confirmed that he had valued  the property taking into account  the long lease. So it was 
content to go ahead and agree to the mortgage being secured over Mr Hs property on that 
basis.
This is an unusual situation.  But having considered  what  went on, I dont  think  Santander 
has acted unreasonably. It was for Mr H to decide  what he was prepared to offer as security  
for the mortgage  he wanted. As I say, its not possible to secure  against  only part of a title 
entry. So if Mr H didnt want the freehold interest of the leasehold property included, he 
would have needed to separate that off into a separate title before, or at the same time, as 
the mortgage completed. Thats not what  he asked  for. Santander has since said its not 
willing to agree to the title being  split, because that would reduce the total land, and the 
value of the land, over which  it has security.  I think thats reasonable. But when  Mr H comes 
to mortgage again, he can make  appropriate arrangements.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I think  Santander  UK Plcs offer of 
£308.22 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2564217