K821x#15complaint
Mrs H and Mr J complain that Santander  UK Plc wont  allow them  to transfer their mortgage 
from their joint names to her name  alone.
background
Mrs H has a joint mortgage  with her former husband Mr J. Mrs H subsequently remarried  a 
Mr H and they both have properties.  Mrs H says that she has been paying  the mortgage  on 
this property since she and Mr J separated in 2010. 
Mrs H says they divorced  in 2012  and that a condition of the divorce is that the mortgage is 
transferred solely  to her. Mrs H says that she has been making  the mortgage payments 
since the separation  and has been  making overpayments so the mortgage is affordable. Mrs 
H asked for this transfer in 2018.
The loan is presently interest only and Santander  said that its current  lending  policy  is only to 
allow 50% of the loan to value as interest  only. The present loan to value is 69%. Santander  
said it would  look at transferring the mortgage  if the remainder was converted  to capital 
repayment and Mrs Hs income passed its affordability test. 
Santanders initial view was that the proposed mortgage looked affordable given Mrs Hs 
income but was outside Santanders policy on income multiples  as the loan was around 5.5 
times Mrs Hs income which was over Santanders  4.45 times  limit. Santander confirmed that 
the mortgage was well maintained although it couldnt confirm  that Mrs H was paying  this 
personally as she didnt pay by direct  debit. 
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld as if the conditions  
under MCOB Rule 11.7.1 applied,  Santander didnt have to assess  the affordability  of any 
request to remove a borrower from a mortgage.  Our investigator felt that Santander didnt 
consider Mrs Hs request  properly and that the evidence was that she was paying  and could 
pay the mortgage on her own and that it was in everyones best interests that Mr J was 
removed from the mortgage. Our investigator  believed that Santander should agree  to 
remove Mr J from the mortgage and Mrs H should get compensation of £100.
Santander asked  for a review and says that if it is to assist Mrs H with the change of 
borrower it will need:
 
Mr J and Mrs H to engage  in a legal process.
Confirmation of how Mr Js equity in the property is to be dealt with and there is a 
complication as Mr J was bankrupted in 2012.
As Mrs H has remarried and as Santander believes that Mr H is living in the property 
and contributing to the everyday living costs he would need to be named on the 
mortgage.
my provisional findings
I reviewed the evidence and issued a provisional  decision  on this complaint, the main
points of which I summarise below:
Ref: DRN21268572After their divorce Mrs H and Mr J wanted a transfer of equity which would require  Santander 
to also agree to transfer the mortgage from a joint mortgage into Mrs Hs name but 
Santander said that it couldnt  provide a new mortgage because of the affordability issues  
referred to above.   
I noted that under mortgage  regulations Santander  could  forego an affordability assessment 
if the loan was before 26 April 2014 and there was no further borrowing and if it was in the 
borrowers best interests. This loan was taken out before that date. Theres  no further 
borrowing in this case. 
My assessment was that this transfer was in the borrowers best interests. I noted that the 
parties had been  divorced for several years  and gone their separate ways financially.   Mrs  H 
remarried in 2015  and had a good  track  record in paying the mortgage and I considered  that 
it was likely that she could  meet the extra burden  of meeting the mortgage on her own.
So I thought  this was an appropriate case where  Santander should forego  an affordability 
assessment and go ahead and process  the application. I noted that Santander had raised  a 
number of other issues.  
It said that Mr J would have to consent  to the transfer formally, and thot there may the 
difficulties in transferring  the title of the property posed by Mr Js bankruptcy. I said that this 
went to the process  by which  the transfer  was effected and I set out how I believed that 
process should operate and shouldnt  hold up Santanders approval of this application. 
I also noted that Santander  has said that its lending criteria require Mr H to join in the 
mortgage.  Dealing  with that submission, my view of the relevant section of Santanders 
lending criteria was that it didnt necessarily require Mr H to join as a party  to the mortgage  
but only if Mr H was contributing to paying  the mortgage of the property  which on an 
inspection of Mrs Hs bank statements didnt appear  to be the case.  
So I said that subject  to a process I outlined, that I intended to uphold  this complaint on the 
basis that a transfer  of the mortgage  was in the best interests of Mr J and Mrs H. I also 
accepted that Mrs H has been put to an amount of trouble by Santander rejecting her 
original request and I approved compensation to her of £100.  
I noted that there was a draft agreement between the parties  made in 2012  transferring Mr 
Js interest but this wasnt made an order of court at that time and I couldnt assume that this 
draft agreement made then matched the parties current intentions and this is something they 
will need  to resolve  between themselves. 
So I said that Mr J and Mrs H will need to agree between themselves the finalisation of the 
separation of their financial  affairs and how this is to be done. Once this agreement is 
finalised, if Mrs Hs solicitors  are in a position  to apply for the title to be transferred to Mrs H 
with Mr Js agreement,  they could apply  for and Santander should grant the transfer  of the 
mortgage but only if the title transfer  was agreed and arranged at the same  time. I 
recognised that it would be unfair  to require  Santander to keep this as an open-ended  
commitment. So, I said the application to Santander  should be made within  six months of 
Mrs Hs acceptance of the Final Decision and also subject to the condition  that Mrs H 
continues to meet the mortgage  payments in full and from her own resources in the 
meantime.    
Ref: DRN21268573my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has indicated her consent to my provisional  decision. Santander asked  Mrs J to make  
a formal application to transfer  the equity and I understand she has started this. Santander 
raised two other issues. Firstly whether the Insolvency Service has any interest  in the 
property following Mr Js bankruptcy. Secondly whether there is an agreement between Mrs 
H and Mrs J about the financial situation so that there are no additional financial implications 
for Mrs H. I note that Mrs H wants some confirmation that Santander would agree the 
application before  applying  to her solicitor.
Mrs H says that at the time that Mr J went bankrupt that the property was in negative  equity 
and that the Insolvency Service has no interest in the property. Mrs H has produced Mr Js  
bankruptcy discharge form showing that Mr J it was discharged in 2013  and Santander  tells 
me it is satisfied in relation to that point.   
In respect of the second point I believe after consideration, that the process suggested 
accommodates both parties. I note that Mrs H wants an offer from Santander to proceed and 
Santander wants the financial affairs sorted.  I understand the concerns of both sides, So, I 
believe that both aims  are best achieved if Santander is committed to agree to the transfer if 
Mrs Hs solicitor confirms  the settlement of Mrs H and Mr Js financial affairs.  I believe that 
this is achieved in the process  I suggested.
But just to make the sequence clear.  Mrs H and Mr J should agree the separation  of their 
financial affairs to confirm  that Mr J will transfer title to the property to Mrs H and without any 
financial commitment by Mrs H to Mr J. At that point Mrs H solicitors can apply to Santander 
to agree to the transfer of the equity and the mortgage to Mrs H. That should be done  within  
six months of Mrs J accepting this decision.  If this is done, Santander should agree to that 
application. I believe that this is fair to both parties. After reviewing this complaint I believe 
that it should be upheld in the terms set out in my provisional decision.           
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint on the following terms:
1.Santander UK plc should pay Mrs H £100.
2.Mr J and Mrs H will need to agree between themselves the finalisation of the 
separation of their financial  affairs and how this is to be done. Once this agreement is 
finalised, if Mrs Hs solicitors  are in a position  to apply for the title to be transferred to 
Mrs H with Mr Js agreement,  and if the agreement involves  no financial commitment 
by Mrs H to Mr J, they can apply for and Santander should grant the transfer  of the 
mortgage but only if the title transfer  is agreed  and arranged  at the same time. The 
application to Santander should be made  within six months of Mrs Hs acceptance  of 
this Final Decision and also subject to the condition that Mrs H continues to meet  the 
mortgage payments  in full and from her own resources in the meantime.    
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 May 2020.
Ref: DRN21268574Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2126857