K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that the loans  she had from MYJAR Limited were unaffordable.
background
Miss S had eight Myjar loans between September 2015 and November 2018 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly Repayment
Due Repaid
1 12 Sep 2015 £125 18d £143 30 Sep 2015 On time
2 6 Oct 2015 £400 86d £196.21 31 Dec 2015 On time
3 31 Dec 2015 £500 91d £247.64 31 Mar 2016 On time
4 14 Jun 2016 £375 78d £201.43 31 Aug 2016 On time
5 3 Sep 2016 £1,000 362d £150.80 31 Aug 2017 On time
6 4 Oct 2017 £400 86d £194.36 29 Dec 2017 On time
7 10 May 2018 £600 174d £175.17 31 Oct 2018 3 Oct 2018
8 1 Nov 2018 £575 176d £168.91 26 Apr 2019 Repayment plan
Miss S says Myjar should  never have  approved  the loans as she was using the money to 
repay other short-term lenders. She says Myjar would have seen that had it looked at her 
credit file but instead it allowed her to take out further loans causing her financial situation to 
worsen. Miss S adds that she struggled to pay priority bills and the stress has affected her 
mental health.
Myjar says it asked  Miss S about  her income  and expenditure and checked  her credit score. 
It says her repayment history was good and that, based on the information it had, the loans 
were affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He said that Myjar should 
have realised Miss S was using other short-term lenders at the time she applied for loan 5 
and that her pattern of borrowing itself indicated  that further lending was unsustainable.  He 
recommended that interest and charges should  be refunded  on loans 5 to 8 (plus 8% 
statutory interest) and that the loans  should be removed from Miss Ss credit  file.
Myjar responded to say, in summary,  that it still feels that its checks were proportionate, but 
that there  was a lack of information in the adjudication so cannot be certain what  was 
considered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN22359452But certain factors might  point to the fact that Myjar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Myjar was required to establish 
whether Miss S could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
Loans 1 to 4
Myjar asked Miss S about her income and expenditure for these loans and checked her 
credit file. Im satisfied the checks were proportionate to the circumstances of the loans and I 
cant see there was anything in the available information that would have indicated the loans 
were unaffordable to Miss S.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Myjars lending history with Miss S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Myjar should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Myjar  should have realised that it shouldnt  
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ss case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 5. I say this because:
By loan 5, Miss S had been borrowing from Myjar  for almost a year,  with few breaks 
in borrowing. Given the purpose of high-cost short-term lending is to assist  with 
temporary cash flow issues, I consider Miss Ss fifth loan application should  have 
indicated to Myjar that she was not using the loans  for the intended  purpose;
Ref: DRN22359453As this was Miss Ss fifth loan application, and the application  amount was 
significantly higher  than previous loans, I dont find Myjars  checks  went  far enough  in 
the circumstances. I consider it should have carried out a full financial review before 
approving any further loans.  Had it done  so, its likely to have found  Miss S had taken 
out a £6,500 loan just two months earlier and had at least two other  short-term  loans 
outstanding at the time of her application for loan 5;
From  loan 5 onwards  Miss S continued to borrow significant amounts and, although 
there were some breaks in lending, I dont  consider any were  long enough  for Myjar 
to have considered  Miss S had broken  the borrowing cycle. Indeed, even  when 
Miss S wasnt borrowing from Myjar, it should have  seen from her credit file that she 
continued to borrow  from multiple  other short-term  lenders.  In addition, Miss S 
applied for loan 8 the day after repaying loan 7 so Myjar ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Miss S was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying 
her previous loan was leaving  in her finances  and that Miss Ss indebtedness  was 
increasing unsustainably;
Miss S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount  she owed Myjar. Loan 8 was 
taken out over three years after Miss Ss first. And it was for over four times  the 
amount. Miss S had paid large  amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to 
Myjar over an extended  period.
I think Miss S lost out because Myjar continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ss indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period;
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Miss Ss 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 5 to 8 and Myjar should  put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. MYJAR  Limited should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Miss S paid on loans 5 to 8;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on refunds from payment date to settlement date*;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  for loan 8, apply the refund to reduce any 
capital outstanding and pay any balance to Miss S; 
The number of loans  taken from loan 5 onwards means any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 5 to 8 should be removed from 
Miss Ss credit file once loan 8 has been  repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. If Myjar intends  
to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding balance,  it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February  2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2235945