K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  unfairly turned down his travel  insurance 
claim.
background
Mr W had been due to fly from the UK to a European airport,  and then take a bus to a 
second European destination. His flight was cancelled, so he arranged for a new flight direct 
to the second  destination  for the following morning. He made a claim to Aviva for the cost of 
his new flight and his additional taxi fares. 
Aviva didnt pay Mr Ws claim. It said the airline which cancelled the flight  had emailed him 
before his original  flight was due to depart offering him either a new one the following day or 
a refund of the cost of his flight. Aviva  said that as suitable alternative transport was offered 
within 24 hours of the original flight time this meant his claim wasnt  covered under  the 
policys terms. Mr W said that was unreasonable.
Our adjudicator thought Aviva  had made  a fair decision under the policys terms. Mr W 
strongly disagreed  so the complaints come  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with our adjudicators findings  for broadly the same reasons. I think  Aviva fairly 
declined Mr Ws claim under  the policy.
Avivas policy  included  cover for cancellation  or coming  home early.  Mr Ws claim partly fell 
within the policy terms in that his pre-booked transport was cancelled,  preventing  him from 
leaving the UK on his outward journey. But his claim could succeed only if the carrier had 
been unable  to provide  suitable alternative  travel arrangements  within  24 hours  of the date 
and time of the scheduled departure as shown on the ticket/itinerary. 
The airline emailed  Mr W shortly  before  the scheduled departure  time about the flight 
cancellation. The airline said that if Mr W still wanted to travel  then it had a seat on the flight 
the following  day. Mr W said the following days flight actually departed late, which took it 
outside the 24 hours. But I dont think this makes a difference. The airline offered suitable 
alternative travel arrangements within 24 hours  of the scheduled departure of the first flight. 
So I think Aviva  was fairly entitled to turn down his claim for the new flight  and taxi costs 
under the policys  terms. 
Aviva properly said it would consider a claim for the bus trip that Mr W couldnt use and any 
overnight accommodation as he arrived a day later. It pointed out there was a £50 excess 
(and it seems the bus trip cost less than this).  So while  this didnt assist him I think Aviva 
fairly considered his claim under the policys terms. 
I can see Mr W thinks the policy should  offer better cover than it does. But I dont think  this is 
a reason for me to uphold the complaint, where the claim was properly declined  under the 
policys terms. 
Ref: DRN25195672my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2519567