K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mr J a payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr J took out a loan in 1995, and at the same time a single premium PPI policy was set up to 
protect the loan payments. The cost of the policy was added  to the loan and interest  
charged.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr J disagreed  and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. These  are my reasons:
 The PPI started  over 23 years ago and because of this theres  little information now 
available from the time.  So I cant be sure how the policy was presented during any 
discussions. But, on balance, I think its likely  that Lloyds made Mr J aware the PPI 
was optional, at least in the paperwork. I say this because Ive seen  a sample of the 
likely loan document, and this does  show the PPI as optional  and it suggests  you 
have to actively make a choice about  whether you take it. Mr J has said he was told he 
had to take PPI in order to get the loan. But I wouldnt necessarily  expect someone  to 
recall in detail everything that happened these many years ago. And it wouldnt be fair 
for me to decide that the bank acted  wrongly in this way unless I had stronger 
supporting evidence. 
 It seems  that Lloyds advised Mr J to have PPI, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  
based on what Ive seen of Mr Js circumstances at the time. The policy offered a 
benefit if Mr J was made  redundant. And it would have  paid out at the same time and 
for longer than his employer sick pay  and would have meant he could put off using 
any other resources he had. Mr J appeared to have been eligible for the policy;  and it 
seems also wouldnt  have  been  affected by any significant exclusions within the policy.
 Mr J would have received only a limited  refund  of the PPI premium  if the policy had 
been cancelled  early. This can be an issue  where a customer might pay the loan off 
early  for example by taking out a replacement loan. But Ive seen  nothing  to suggest 
that this was likely at the time of sale. So that feature of the policy didnt make it 
unsuitable for Mr J. 
 Its possible the costs of the policy  could  have been made clearer   for example its 
unlikely the interest on the premiums was made as clear  as it could have been. But I 
dont think the actual interest  on the PPI was so much that it would have put Mr J off 
taking it. Also the policy seems to have been  affordable for Mr J.
Ref: DRN29414292 Its possible that Lloyds didnt clearly point out what the PPI wouldnt cover   but I cant  
see that Mr J would have  been significantly affected by this. 
On balance, I think Mr J wasnt mis-sold PPI by Lloyds.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2941429