K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined his claim under  his 
employers group private medical insurance  policy. AXA PPP declined  the claim because  it 
considered that Mr B was having treatment  for a condition  which  was pre-existing.
background
In January 2018, Mr B joined his employers group private medical  insurance  policy  which 
was held with AXA PPP.
In August  2018,  Mr B contacted AXA PPP. He explained that hed been suffering from 
depression since  May 2018 for which he had been receiving treatment through  the NHS but 
that he had now been advised to undergo an inpatient programme. AXA PPP authorised an 
initial consultation with a psychiatrist and said it would need a report from the hospital to 
enable it to establish the eligibility of the admission.
Mr B had a consultation with the psychiatrist  (who Ill call Dr J) a few days later and was 
admitted to hospital.  He was discharged nearly four weeks later.
Shortly after being discharged, AXA PPP advised  Mr B that it wouldnt provide cover for his 
admission. This was because, after receiving  further  information,  it understood he had 
suffered from symptoms of anxiety  and depression in 2016. It said that this meant his 
condition was therefore pre-existing under the terms of the policy and thus excluded  from 
cover.
Mr B complained to AXA PPP. He said that the episode  in 2016 was simply a bout of 
workplace stress. He said his condition  in 2018  was an entirely different diagnosis and that 
the two episodes were  unrelated.
AXA PPP wouldnt  change its position. Mr B therefore referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that AXA PPP had acted fairly  in declining the claim.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. He provided a letter  from his GP in support of 
his case.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy states  that Mr B wouldnt be covered for the first two years for any pre-existing 
conditions. The policy describes a pre-existing condition as:
 any disease, illness  or injury  that:
you have received medication,  advice or treatment for before the start of your cover,  
or
Ref: DRN25167122you have experienced symptoms of before the start of your cover;  whether or not the 
condition was diagnosed.
The evidence shows that, in November 2016, Mr B visited his GP complaining  that he was 
feeling stressed at work and this was giving rise to anxiety  symptoms.  His GP prescribed two 
weeks of medication and recommended he undergo cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT). 
Mr B returned to his GP two weeks later saying that he was feeling significantly better. He 
said he hadnt arranged  to undergo CBT but indicated his intention  to do so.
In May 2018, Mr B attended  the A&E department  of his local hospital following a panic attack 
and suicide ideation.  He reported that hed been  struggling with these symptoms  for a month 
but they had been  getting  worse  recently. He attributed his feelings to a number of factors, 
including his separation from his wife in November 2017. He began receiving treatment 
through the NHS.
In its final response letter,  AXA PPP said that Dr J had confirmed in two separate  letters  that 
Mr Bs symptoms  had begun in November 2017 when he had been  diagnosed with 
depression. I dont think this is necessarily  fair. Dr J noted that Mr B believed his separation  
from his wife in November 2017  had made  him feel low and anxious. Dr J said [Mr B] has 
been diagnosed with depression and also with adjustment  disorder following his separation 
from his wife. Dr J doesnt say that Mr B was diagnosed with depression in November 2017;  
indeed, he couldnt  have been  since he didnt see a medical professional  in connection with 
his mental health  until six months later. And while it might be that the separation  from his 
wife was a factor in his eventual depression, I dont think AXA PPP has reasonably shown 
that his symptoms at that time were such that it would be reasonable to apply the pre-
existing conditions exclusion. It is understandable that he felt low at that time but Mr Bs 
symptoms didnt deteriorate to the extent  that he felt it necessary to get medical advice until 
six months later. 
This means  that to apply the exclusion, AXA PPP must rely on the November  2016  episode. 
I recognise that this episode related  to anxiety rather than depression. The cause  of it 
appears to have been Mr Bs job which he had since left and so there were different causes 
of the 2018 episode. Furthermore, his GP has said that the 2016 episode appeared to have  
lasted two weeks which suggests that, unlike  his 2018 depression,  the event was not 
pathological but simply a reaction to stress. I further  note that Dr J appears to regard the two 
episodes as unrelated.
However, despite the above, the symptoms which Mr B experienced in 2016 and 2018 were  
similar. In 2016,  his reported  symptoms  included feeling tightness  across his chest, difficulty  
breathing, anger and emotional outbursts. He felt constant anxiety and admitted to some 
suicide ideation, albeit  he hadnt expressed any planning  or intent to commit this. In 2018, he 
reported panic  attacks, suicide ideation  and anxiety.
Stress, anxiety and depression  have overlapping symptoms and are related to each other  in 
that stress  and anxiety  can sometimes develop into depression. I recognise that Mr Bs 
symptoms in 2016 were  not as severe as they were  in 2018 but they were significant enough 
for him to consult his GP and for his GP to give advice  and prescribe medication  (the same 
medication which he would prescribe in 2018). And from an insurance perspective, AXA 
PPP would have  seen  Mr B as being  a greater risk for mental health claims by virtue  of the 
earlier episode.
Ref: DRN25167123I note that when Mr B contacted AXA PPP, it provided authorisation for an initial  consultation 
but explained it would probably  need a report from the hospital before it could authorise 
cover for in-patient treatment. Unfortunately, Mr B was admitted to hospital before AXA PPP 
had a chance to properly  assess  the claim. Overall, I think  it was reasonable for it to say the 
symptoms which Mr B experienced  in 2018  had been experienced by him in 2016,  before 
the start of his cover, and to decline his claim on that basis.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2516712