K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont extend the term of their interest 
only mortgage. Mr and Mrs Ss representative has dealt with this complaint on their behalf.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2007. The mortgage  is on an interest  
only basis. The term expired in 2014  with an unpaid balance. Mr and Mrs S say theyve 
made proposals to repay the balance, which Barclays declined  without explaining  why.
I sent a provisional  decision  to the parties. In summary, I said Barclays  hadnt acted unfairly 
in declining Mr and Mrs Ss request for a term extension. I said Barclays should  allow  Mr and 
Mrs S until after March  2021 to look into their options for repaying the mortgage.
Barclays didnt agree to hold legal  action, although  it pointed  out that current  circumstances 
mean its unlikely therell be a court  hearing until March or April 2021.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs S took out the mortgage  on an interest only basis they told Barclays  they 
would repay  the mortgage from the proceeds  of the sale of Mr Ss business  and premises  
when he retired and the sale of their buy to let properties. Mr S said he intended to retire  at 
70  which  was about the same time that the mortgage term expired in 2014.  
When the term expired,  Mr and Mrs S asked for an extension, which  Barclays  declined. 
The regulator (the Financial  Conduct  Authority or FCA) sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments  of affordability  and, for interest  only mortgages, repayment  strategy  
before lenders agree to enter  into or vary mortgages. Mr and Mrs S want  to vary their 
mortgage by extending the term.
There are two exceptions to this for mortgages taken out before 2014.  First,  where an 
existing mortgage  is to be varied and theres  no change to its terms likely to be material  to 
affordability. And, if the first exception doesnt  apply,  the lender doesnt have to carry out an 
assessment of affordability  or repayment strategy provided the loan balance hasnt 
increased since 2014 and the proposed change is in the borrowers  best interests. 
I should say that this doesnt mean Barclays cant consider affordability,  and ask for 
information about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances to do so. Barclays can fairly take this into 
account when  considering  whats in Mr and Mrs Ss best interests.  I should  also say that 
while the exception  allows Barclays to agree to vary the mortgage  despite concerns about 
affordability it isnt required to do so. It could still fairly decline to extend  the term for another 
reason. 
The term of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  expired in 2014 with an unpaid  balance of about  
£240,000. They couldnt afford the monthly repayments for a repayment mortgage. Mr and 
Mrs S took advice and made proposals  to Barclays, which it didnt accept.
Ref: DRN25086512In mid-2018 Mr and Mrs S asked Barclays for a six years extension. They  intend to make 
monthly overpayments  to reduce the capital  owed and, at the end of the extension, sell 
Mr Ss business to repay the balance. Mr Ss accountant said he would guarantee the 
payments. Mr and Mrs S also said they could assign a life policy  to Barclays. 
Barclays said these repayment proposals  dont meet its criteria. Barclays  doesnt have to set 
out its lending  criteria, which are commercially sensitive,  to Mr and Mrs S or their 
representative. It told Mr and Mrs S that their repayment plan has to be feasible, in that its 
affordable and the borrower will stick to the arrangement. 
I asked Mr and Mrs Ss representative for more information about their circumstances. The 
representative said:
Mr and Mrs S disposed of their buy to let properties several years ago, but after repaying 
loans secured on the properties and other costs there was no surplus to reduce the debt 
owed to Barclays. 
Mr Ss business and premises are valued at £130,000. He didnt provide a valuation  
report to support this.
Mr S intends to continue working,  with the intention of reducing  the debt. Hes made 
payments to reduce the debt by £40,000  over the last two to three years.
Mr and Mrs S tried to refinance but were told theyre too old for a mortgage.  The 
representative didnt  say if theyd looked into equity release or other products aimed  at 
older borrowers. 
Since 2014 Mr and Mrs S have made  payments to reduce  the balance.  They  were able to 
make higher  overpayments after what the representative calls a restructuring in 2018:  
Mr and Mrs S reduced the debt they owed to Barclays  by about £30,000 between mid-2018  
and mid-2020.  
Mr and Mrs S still owe about £190,000. Theyd need to repay  at least  another £60,000  
before repaying  the remainder from selling Mr Ss business (assuming the valuation of the 
business is correct  and remains the same).  In September 2017 the representative told 
Barclays the business was worth  £160,000,  in November 2017 he said it was worth  at least  
£150,000 and in November 2020  he said it was valued at £130,000. 
Mr and Mrs S are about 75 and 80, respectively. Mr S might hope  that his business will be 
worth more at the end of any extension, but theres  no guarantee of this  and from what  his 
representative has said its value  has fallen over recent years. It could be worth less. If the 
value remains the same, Mr S will need  to continue to work and make overpayments for 
another four to five years. Its not clear how the representative thinks  guarantees or the 
assignment of life policies will help here,  as Barclays already has security on the mortgaged  
property. 
I dont think its clearly  in Mr and Mrs Ss best interests to extend the term. Theres  no 
guarantee the sale of Mr Ss business  will raise enough to repay it at the end of the 
extension, or that Mr Ss business will generate enough income to fund overpayments in the 
meantime. Its likely Mr and Mrs S will find having to sell the business, and possibly their 
home, more difficult in the future. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S expect their situation  to be 
better at the end of a term extension, but theres  no guarantee this would be the case. 
Ref: DRN25086513I must be fair to both parties here. Barclays is entitled to expect its money  to be repaid. 
Fairness suggests as a starting point that Mr and Mrs S repaid the mortgage when the term 
expired  as they agreed to do when they took out the mortgage.  Theyre  asking for an 
extension that means  Barclays  will wait about 10 years after this. And theres no certainty Mr 
and Mrs S will be able to repay the mortgage at that time, without selling their house.
Overall, I dont  think its reasonable  or fair to require Barclays to offer Mr and Mrs S the term 
extension they asked for. I also dont think theres a benefit to Mr and Mrs S in requiring  
Barclays to give Mr and Mrs S until mid-2021  to repay the mortgage. Theres  no reason they 
will be in a better position to take steps to repay  the mortgage at that time. 
What happens  now?
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic  and related Government restrictions,  the regulator issued 
guidelines to lenders.  Current guidelines  say no-one should have their home  repossessed 
without their agreement  until after 31 January  2021.  Barclays should take this, and any 
further guidance into account.
Its about six years since the term expired and Barclays says Mr and Mrs S have already had 
time to explore  their options. I agree,  and Ive thought about what  Barclays said in reply  to 
my provisional decision. That said, Mr and Mrs S will now be in a difficult  position. 
I think it would be fair for Barclays to allow Mr and Mrs S until after the end of March 2021  to 
decide how theyll repay the mortgage. This will give them  time to take further independent 
financial advice about their options  including options such  as refinancing  with a retirement 
mortgage or equity  release if they dont want to sell their house  or the business. Id urge Mr 
and Mrs S to do this, and keep Barclays informed about the steps theyre taking  to repay the 
mortgage.
I must remind  Barclays of its duty to treat Mr and Mrs S fairly. And Barclays should of course  
take guidance issued by the regulator into account.  But ultimately if Mr and Mrs S arent able 
to repay  the mortgage it will be entitled  to take possession as a last resort.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 February  2021.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2508651