K820x#14complaint
Mr T complained that Aviva Insurance Limited  declined his repair claim under his motor 
insurance policy.
background
Mr Ts car was damaged in an accident.  Aviva wouldnt agree to repair  it. They said that he 
hadnt complied  with his policy terms as his car wasnt roadworthy.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should  be upheld.  She thought that Aviva 
hadnt been unreasonable. As Mr T didnt agree his case has been passed  to me to decide.
He also complained about delay  in getting  a courtesy car but as it seems that Mr T has taken 
this up separately with Aviva I wont deal with it here.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Ts policy and it says on page 30 that You shall maintain your car in a 
roadworthy condition.
Thats not an unusual  term in motor policies and I think that its clear. We think  that its not 
unreasonable for insurers to expect their insureds to keep their cars in a roadworthy  
condition. 
After Mr T made his claim on his policy Avivas garage took photos of his car and submitted 
them to Aviva. They declined his claim because  they said that Mr Ts cars front passenger 
tyre tread depth  wasnt sufficient and so it wasnt roadworthy. But Mr T said the garage 
photo made the tyre look worse  than it was. He sent his own photos which he said showed 
that part of the tyre tread was at the legal limit. Avivas in-house engineering and technical 
claims team looked at his photos and reviewed the issue, but still declined the claim as in 
their view the tyre tread  depth  wasnt legal. Mr T was unhappy  that Aviva hadnt  sent an 
engineer to inspect  the tyre, but had relied only on the garage photos to make their decision.  
He said that the police allowed him to drive  his car home  after the accident, and that Aviva 
delayed giving him a courtesy  car because  their garage said that his car was mobile. He said 
those things wouldnt have happened if his tyre tread hadnt  been sufficient. But I dont think 
that these things do necessarily mean that his car was roadworthy.  
The police may not have  been looking for that type of issue  after the accident,  and the 
garage hadnt necessarily  done  all of its checks by then. But even if it had, I think  that a car 
can be mobile but still not roadworthy, so theres  no contradiction there.  
Avivas garage did take the photos and included them in a report on the cars condition  to 
Aviva, and I think that was enough. I dont  think it unreasonable  for Aviva to rely on those 
photographs as sufficient evidence. Aviva did review  the photos Mr T sent,  and looking at 
them, even if part of the relevant tyre may have met the legal limit, much of the tyre still 
doesnt seem to. So I dont think it was unreasonable of Aviva to maintain their original 
decision after reviewing Mr Ts photos. 
Ref: DRN27859612And as the investigator explained to Mr T, it was open to him to obtain an independent report  
confirming the depth of the tyre tread  and its legality as roadworthy if he wished to challenge 
Avivas opinion, but he didnt do so. I understand  that he has since had his car repaired 
himself and wants Aviva to reimburse him for the repair costs. But though  I can see that Mr T 
is frustrated about  the situation, in the circumstances, and on the evidence  Aviva had 
available to them, I cant say that Aviva acted  unfairly in declining his repair claim and so I 
dont require them to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2785961