K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Mortgage Express hasnt dealt with them fairly in their offers  to 
make payment arrangements. The would like Mortgage Express to offer them a fair payment 
arrangement and to stop further  legal  action
background
Mortgage Express got a suspended payment Order in court  on 19 June 2012  which  required 
Mr and Mrs M to make  their contractual monthly payments together with £23.39 monthly  to 
pay off the arrears. This arrangement continued  until 2016. Since then, there have  been  a 
number of further payment arrangements. On 29 June 2018,  Mr and Mrs M contacted  
Mortgage Express so that instead of making the full payment  on 30 June, part would be paid 
on 29 June and the remainder on 13 July. But Mr and Mrs M didnt make  the payment on 13 
July. Mr and Mrs M also say that Mortgage Expresss  use of income  and expenditure 
statements means that their payments cant be reduced.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that 
Mortgage Express had acted in a fair and reasonable manner. Mr and Mrs M disagreed and 
asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint arises from a dispute about  a payment in July 2018. Ive listened  to the 
relevant calls. On 25 June  Mr M made  a new payment plan to pay his contractual  monthly 
payment together with £100 towards the arrears beginning 30 June. Mr M rang Mortgage  
Express again on 29 June  to say that because he needed to pay for car repairs  that he 
couldnt make the June  payment all at once  but could pay £400 now and the remainder on 
13 July. Mortgage  Express  said that there had been six previous broken arrangements  but 
would allow this deferral  of the June  payment.  Mr M didnt make the deferred June payment 
on 13 July. Mortgage  Express contacted  Mr M by phone. I note in that call that Mr M said he 
didnt make the payment because he thought that the payment arrangement began at the 
end of July. 
I consider this surprising  as Mr M had requested the deferral of the June payment. I also 
note that Mr M repeatedly  said in the phone  call that he could afford the payment under  the 
arrangement. Mr M said that the reason the 13 July payment wasnt  made was not because  
he couldnt afford it but because he thought  the arrangement wouldnt start until the end of 
July. I also  listened  to another call and Mr M explained that the problems he had with the 
payments was not the amount of the payments but that he had cash  flow issues  in that some 
of his clients paid late.
Mr M complains that the arrangements  that he agrees with Mortgage Express are unfair. I 
see that in 2012 that the Court set the original  arrangement and not Mortgage Express so I 
cant fault Mortgage Express for that. I see that in arriving at the arrangement Mortgage 
Express has used an Income and Expenditure statement which  is the fair process we would 
expect it to use. I also note that in the phone conversations I listened to that Mr M clearly 
Ref: DRN20813002said that the payments were affordable. Finally I note that in the period up to June 2018 that 
Mortgage Express recorded that there were six broken arrangements which indicates that 
Mortgage Express was willing  to facilitate Mr and Mrs M up to that stage. I understand that 
Mortgage Express may be considering legal action in future if another  arrangement is 
broken. I dont believe that Mortgage Express has acted unreasonably to date. 
I believe that Mr and Mrs M may have other issues separate from this complaint in relation to 
interest rates and the fact that Mortgage Express dont  offer new mortgage to customers. But 
In respect of this complaint I cant fairly say that Mortgage Express  has treated Mr and Mrs 
M unfairly and I dont  uphold their complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 August  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2081300