K821x#15complaint
Mrs N says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs N took out with a store  card in 2001. Its been 
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ns case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint because I dont think FICL gave Mrs N 
clear enough  information  about  the limitations and exclusions of the PPI policy.
The policy excluded claims resulting from any medical condition which Mrs N knew about at 
the start of the policy. And I havent  seen clear  evidence that Mrs N was made sufficiently  
aware of this term during the sale.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs N because  shes  told us that she was diagnosed with a 
medical condition  a number of years  before the sale.
FICL has said that Mrs Ns condition was manageable  and so wouldnt have affected her 
ability to do her job or her decision to take the policy. But FICL hasnt given us any detail  
about its understanding of Mrs Ns specific  symptoms or circumstances. The condition  can 
be very serious and have  a significant impact  on the everyday lives of those suffering with it. 
And it can also vary significantly over time. So, even if the condition wasnt  affecting Mrs N at 
the time,  I think she could  have been concerned that she could have time off as a result of it 
in the future.
So I think Mrs N wouldve  wanted any claims resulting from her medical condition to be 
covered by the policy. And I dont think she wouldve taken the policy if it had been  made  
clear to her that they wouldnt be. So I think shes lost out as a result of FICL  not making this 
exclusion clear to her.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs N in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs N would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN26038632So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs N owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs N made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs N would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs N would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs N 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs N paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs N 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs N what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs N a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs N to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2603863