K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains about the treatment she received from Santander UK Plc when she tried to 
make changes to her interest-only  mortgage. 
background
Ms L complains, in summary, that:
The interest rates changed from those she was initially offered
She didnt request  a valuation of her property, and this has cost her money
Shes found the whole  process  lengthy  and exhausting  and its had an adverse 
effect on her health
Ms L has an interest-only mortgage  that she took out with Santander in September 2016  for 
around £250,000, over a term of four years and two months. This was on a fixed  rate that 
was due to expire  in November 2018, so she contacted  Santander in September 2018 to see 
what rates  might be available to her.
She was quoted rates similar to those that she was on in this call but decided to look at what 
other lenders were  offering before  making a decision. When  she called back in early  
November 2018,  she was quoted higher  interest  rates. Shes unhappy that Santander wont  
match those  initially quoted.
Ms L is also unhappy with the valuation  shes raised concerns about the surveyors  
behaviour and said her property was undervalued.  Further, she says the overall customer  
service was poor and the whole matter caused  unnecessary stress and frustration. 
Ms L raised  a complaint  in branch  on December  2018 and Santander replied via letter in 
January 2019.  In this it apologised for the delay in communicating the valuation  of the 
property and dealing  with her complaint so offered her  as an exception  the best rates 
that were available to her in November 2018.  It also offered to backdate  any rate to 
21 December 2018 until the time she accepted  a rate, to acknowledge  that she had been 
paying the Standard  Variable  Rate (SVR), which is higher, during this time. 
In addition to this, Santander  offered £150  in compensation as a further  apology  for the 
issues she had experienced. Ms L remained unhappy with this resolution so brought  her 
complaint to this service.  
Our investigator looked into this but didnt  think Santander should  do anymore. Unhappy  with 
this, Ms L asked for an ombudsman to review  the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
rates offered  
I understand that Ms L is frustrated and feels let down by the fact that she wasnt able to 
change her rate to the one initially quoted in her call with Santander  in September 2018.  
Ref: DRN27986082Ive listened to the calls that she had with Santander about these and I dont think the rates 
quoted were guaranteed.  This was an initial call and other options were discussed  to get the 
best rate - for example  to extend the term slightly. 
It was explained  that to do this, she would need to have a discussion with a mortgage 
specialist and an application and credit check would  need to be done. Ms L was also 
considering her options in terms of additional  borrowing and she said that she would think  
about all of this, and look at the rates on offer with other lenders and call back. 
When she did call back in early November, the rates had changed and Santander  confirmed 
that they increased in late October. Whilst I appreciate this is frustrating for Ms L, rates  do 
change regularly and I dont think Santander  treated her unfairly  here. Ms L didnt request to 
proceed with the product switch in September and Santander hadnt  given  her any 
assurance over what rate she could have until an application had been completed and an 
offer made. 
Ms L has also said that shes unhappy that she was not able to change  her rate online and 
feels she was forced  to do this over the phone, which can take time and effort.  Because  she 
has an interest only mortgage, Santander  required her to speak to an adviser.  Whilst theres 
no regulatory requirement to so do when  there  is a product switch,  the regulator  does expect  
lenders to stay in touch with interest only borrowers  to make sure their mortgages are on 
track to be repaid,  and a product switch can be a good time to do this. 
I dont think that Santander were  wrong to take Ms L through an advised process and I think 
Santander tried to help her access the best rates available.  For example, it was agreed that 
a valuation could  be carried  out to see if this would improve the rates  on offer.   
Valuation of the property
Ms L and Santander  disagreed over the property value - Santanders records reflected that 
the property was valued at around £470,000 but Ms L said that it is worth around  £575,000.
Because of this difference,  it was agreed that a valuation would be done on the property, 
and Santander  did say that rates would  be less if the property was found to be valued at 
under £500,000. Ive listened to the call where this was discussed and agreed with Ms L  
she didnt necessarily request the valuation  but it was agreed in the call to gain an up to 
date value as it differed  between the parties and this could affect the rates  available  to Ms L. 
Unfortunately, the valuation estimated  the property to be worth  less, which Santander  has 
explained to be because the lease  term remaining  was 44 years.  Which  falls outside of its 
guidelines for the rates that Ms L would like, which is set at 50 years. It was explained in a 
phone call that if the survey resulted in a value less than £500,000, it would not positively 
affect the rates available to Ms Ls because it would have an impact on the loan to value  
(LTV) of her mortgage. 
Its a shame that this was the result  of the survey but I dont think Santander suggested this 
to penalise Ms L in some  way, indeed, I think it was agreed upon to try to help Ms L access 
better rates. 
Im sorry  to learn that Ms L is unhappy  with how the surveyor conducted himself  and that she 
found this to be a distressing experience. Santander  has responded to apologise for this. Ive 
noted her comments that she believes Santander employs surveyors to support their rates at 
Ref: DRN27986083the time.   Whilst I understand her concerns  and can appreciate how disappointed she must 
have been with the result of the survey, surveyors  are independently contracted 
professionals and do act independently and provide estimates of properties based  on their 
expertise and experience. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Santander to instruct a surveyor  and I dont think  it 
acted unfairly when it relied upon  the result of the survey. But I do think  Santander could  
have communicated  the outcome of the survey to Ms L sooner. Its apologised for this and is 
one of the reasons it offered £150  in compensation  which has been paid to Ms L and I think, 
considering everything, that is fair.
Customer service  issues
Ms L has also complained  about the overall  service shes received. I do appreciate that it 
can take time and effort to go through the process  of a product switch.  As previously 
explained, I dont  think Santander treated Ms L unfairly when it required her to speak  to a 
mortgage advisor.
Shes also raised concerns about  not receiving a call back  when it was promised and for the 
delay in answering her complaint. I can see why she is frustrated with these issues  and 
agree that this must  have  added to the stress  caused by the process, especially as she was 
being charged the SVR. But I do think that the offer made, and £150 compensation paid 
covers this inconvenience appropriately. 
Next steps
I appreciate that this has been a difficult and stressful  time for Ms L  and Ive noted the 
comments shes made about the impact this has had on her health and constant worry this 
has caused. Im sorry to hear this. Santander has acknowledged that it took longer than it 
should have done to communicate the outcome of the valuation and to resolve  Ms Ls 
complaint.
It has said that, as an exception, it will offer the best possible rates available based on what 
it could offer in November  2018. These are:
A two-year fixed rate of 1.54% with a £999 booking  fee, or
A two-year fixed rate of 1.84% with no fee, or 
A two-year tracker, which was 1.44% at the time the offer was made, with a £999  
booking fee.
Santander also recognised that while she waited, she remained on the Standard Variable 
Rate, which has charged interest  on her account at a higher amount. It has offered to 
backdate any new interest  rate taken to 21 December,  which  it says is the date the formal 
exception was granted by their marketing department.  If Ms L had chosen  a rate in 
November 2018  it would  have taken a few weeks to implement, so I think  this is fair.
Ive considered Ms Ls comments  that the rate should be backdated to when she first made 
an enquiry in September 2018  but as Ive explained, rates do change, and these  were  not 
guaranteed. Ms L chose not to select a Santander rate at this time,  but to shop around  and 
only decided  to go ahead with Santander  in November.  It was only once  she went through  
the application process with an adviser that she was able to get an accurate picture of the 
rates available to her.
Ref: DRN27986084Im also mindful that she didnt accept the rates at that time as she wanted  to see what  she 
might be offered from other providers. Considering this, I dont think  it would be fair to 
backdate it to September 2018.   
In respect of the delay in communicating the outcome of the survey and answering her 
complaint, it offered £150, which it says has been paid to her account. 
I think the offer made is fair in all of the circumstances,  so I wont  be recommending  
Santander do anything  further here. 
I understand that whilst  Ms Ls complaint has been with this service, she has been sent 
letters from Santander threatening  her with repossession  and that arrears  have  been  added 
to the account.  Any action  has been  put on hold while this service investigates the complaint.
Santander has provided a mortgage offer for a rate of 1.54% until 2 February 2021. I leave it 
to Ms L to decide  if she would like to accept this, or the other two rates quoted above.  If she 
does, I expect Santander to restructure  the account  to reflect  the rate that Ms L choses from 
the three on offer, effective from 21 December 2018 to the end of the term. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I think Santander  has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle 
this complaint. If Ms L selects one of the three  rates it has quoted,  it should  backdate  that to 
21 December 2018, and the account  should be re-worked to bring it up to date. 
Ive noted that payments have been  missed whilst this matter  has been  ongoing   this will 
need to be addressed between Santander and Ms L once the account has been  re-worked  
in line with the offer she chooses.
It has already paid £150 compensation  which I think is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2020.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2798608