K821x#15Complaint
Ms B is unhappy TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund her the money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam. 
Background
What Ms B says
On 12 January 2019 Ms B searched  online for five return flights to Africa.  She was directed 
to an airline website that looked like one shed used before.  Ms B called the number 
provided on the site and was told shed be able to get cheaper tickets  by going through  a 
well-known search company shed heard of and trusted. Ms B received an email  with flight  
and payment details.  Payment was to be made to a specified account within  48 hours. 
On 14 January 2019 Ms B went in to a TSB branch and paid in £2,080 in cash  before 
requesting a transfer of £2,078 for her flights. She says she told the member of staff who 
served her she was excited about her holiday but wasnt  questioned about it. After shed 
made the payment Ms B received confirmation and e-tickets by email. The company she 
called advised  she could check with the airline that the flights had been booked. Ms B says 
she did so and was reassured. But Ms B became concerned when the company shed 
transferred funds to didnt  answer her calls after the payment had been made. She realised 
shed been the victim of a scam and contacted TSB to report  it on 30 January 2019.  TSB 
froze the receiving  bank account,  but all funds had been removed by that stage. 
What TSB say
TSB say Ms B authorised  the payment and it has done what  it can to recover  her funds. TSB 
say had Ms B researched  the company she was transferring  to shed have found the 
legitimate site and become aware of the fraud.  It points out the real company doesnt take 
payments direct from customers so Ms B should  have verified that the tickets were genuinely 
available with the relevant  airline.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator felt TSB hadnt done enough  and asked it to refund the scam payment 
together with interest. Although she accepted Ms B had authorised the payment,  she felt it 
was an out of character payment that TSB should have flagged. It was to a new payee, Ms B 
had to transfer funds  in to her account to make it and it was for a higher amount than Ms Bs 
usual transactions.  
The investigator referred to a statement  from the branch staff member  who completed  the 
transfer and noted no questions were  asked about  the transaction  itself.  The name of the 
company Ms B was transferring to had a slightly different spelling to a well-known  company 
(one letter different),  which  wasnt probed, and the member  of staff didnt ask about how 
Ms B found the company and what conversations shed had with it. The investigator 
concluded that had TSB asked relevant questions the loss could have been prevented. 
Ms B accepted the investigators findings, but TSB didnt so the complaint has been  passed 
to me to consider. TBS said:
Ref: DRN20428562-Transferring money  from a savings or other source to make a larger payment that a 
customer has saved for is not unusual  behaviour. This is the nature of a savings  
account.
-The investigators assertion that it was unusual for Ms B to deposit funds in branch  is 
incorrect. Ms B has an established  history  of depositing funds to fund a later 
transaction. TSB said Ms B had deposited funds  seven  times in the six months 
before the transfer and provided  examples,  although  it accepted  the amounts 
involved were smaller.
-The fact Ms B was paying by faster payment was not unusual in itself and so didnt 
warrant further questioning. Some small and independent  legitimate  travel 
companies allow customers  to pay by a variety  of methods  including  faster payments 
and still have the protection of bodies  like ABTA  and ATOL.
-Its not reasonable for this service to dictate the level and nature of the questions  a 
bank should ask. 
-Whilst TSB has a duty to make enquiries  where  it believes a customer is being  
defrauded it is not under an obligation to provide advice  about  whether a customer  
should make a purchase. It is up to a customer to complete due diligence.  
-There was nothing  unusual or out of character about the payment Ms B made, so no 
reason to invoke  the Banking  Protocol.  
-It has met the industry  standards expected of it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider
TSB should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
-In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before processing a payment, or in some
Ref: DRN20428563cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide  whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings
with Ms B when she authorised a payment  from her account or whether it could and should  
have done more before processing it. That is a question of fact and degree
depending on the circumstances of each  individual case.
Did TSB act fairly  and reasonably in Ms Bs case?
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter  of good practice TSB should have been on the 
lookout for out of character or unusual transactions. So Ive first considered whether the 
£2,078 payment request  Ms B made was out of character and unusual. Having looked at Ms 
Bs statements for the six months before the transaction Im satisfied it was and will explain 
why. 
Although the scam transfer  wasnt  for a large sum, I think  it was unusual for Ms B. It was for 
£2,078, but other than a regular standing order for £725 and a direct debit of around  £115, 
Ms B had only made  a couple  of payments for over £100 in the six months before the scam 
payment, and these  payments were  for a few hundred pounds rather than thousands.  She 
had made  very few faster payments, and the ones shed made were for low amounts. The 
payment was also to a new payee.  So I think TSB should have asked Ms B relevant 
questions about  the payment.
TSB has pointed to the fact Ms B had a history  of paying in cash to fund a later transaction,  
so Ive carefully considered this point. Ms Bs statements  show  she paid cash  in to her 
current account fairly regularly. But the amounts she paid in prior to the scam payment  were 
much smaller and not used up as soon as they were  paid in. The largest cash  deposit  she 
made was for £1,000 in August 2018.  There were no large payments following this deposit. 
Other deposits were  for smaller sums, and again the sums paid in werent used to make 
larger payments from the account. So although I accept that transferring funds  in to an 
account to pay for an item the customer  has saved  for is normal  behaviour, this isnt what  
happened in Ms Bs case. Overall,  I think its fair to say the level and pattern of spending 
was unusual for Ms B. 
TSB has also said that paying  by faster payment wasnt unusual  for Ms B. Having 
considered her statements I can see that Ms B made very few faster payments and none  for 
amounts similar  to the scam payment.
Had TSB asked Ms B some questions about  the payment  I believe its more  likely than not 
the scam  would have  become apparent and would  have been prevented. Ill explain why.
TSB has provided a statement from the staff member who served Ms B when she made the 
payment. Ive copied this below:
I do remember slightly  yes, but unfortunately she didnt show  me any evidence of the 
requested amount or who was requesting  this  I did ask the customer what the payment 
was for & they said it was a holiday  to Africa I believe?? I then asked for the total & It didnt 
seem un realistic the figure that she was asking me to pay out, I then asked her for the 
details of where it was going & she wrote  them down for me, so I just used what she gave to 
me as an instruction I didnt question that the piece of paper she gave me with [name  of 
beneficiary] wrote  down,  I just presumed this was her spelling of what  she thought it was 
called( as it was not an official Doc it was simply a piece of note paper  I gave  to her) so 
Ref: DRN20428564with that being a known  company  & the amount was realistic I had no further concerns 
but I 100% hadnt seen anything like booking confirmation or the original booking or any 
emails, it was literally word of mouth & then what she had wrote  down for me when i asked.
So Ms B was asked  what the payment was for, the amount  and for the account  details  of the 
beneficiary. The member of staff who served Ms B thought Ms B was paying a known  
company. In these  circumstances I consider she should have gone on to ask Ms B some  
additional questions, like why she was paying the known company by faster payment, rather  
than by a method that offered her protection (like a credit card). 
TSB has told this service that some small and independent  travel  companies offer a variety 
of ways to pay, which may be the case.  But Ms B wasnt paying a small or independent 
company and the member of staff who served her was aware  of this.
I accept its not for this service to dictate  the questions TSB should ask, or for TSB to give 
advice about whether  a customer should  make  a payment, but TSB should ask questions 
designed to protect  its customers  from the risk of financial harm  and I dont  think it has done  
enough in this case.  
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think TSB ought fairly and reasonably to have identified that 
Ms B was potentially at risk of financial harm.  Im persuaded that as a matter of good 
practice, TSB should  fairly  and reasonably  have  made additional checks  before processing 
the payment Ms B made on 14 January 2019. Specifically, I consider TSB ought to have 
questioned how Ms B found the flight company, what checks shed completed to ensure the 
company was legitimate and why she was paying for flights by way of an account  transfer  
which offered her no protection. 
Ms B fell victim to a common scam, a fake company  scam. Im satisfied TSB ought to have 
been aware of this type of scam at the time the payment was made .Given the prevalence  of 
this type of scam, the fact Ms B was paying  a company with a very similar name  to a well-
known legitimate company, and that she was paying it by way of a transfer, I consider TSB 
should have had concerns. Had Ms B been asked questions like whether the name of the 
company she intended  to pay was correct and how shed found  the flights I think the scam 
would have come  to light and Ms Bs loss prevented.  
Finally, Ive thought  about whether Ms B did enough to protect herself from loss. She 
explained she checked with the airline  that the flights had been  booked and was told they 
had. Ms B now thinks the flights were booked and then cancelled once shed called the 
airline to check.  Its difficult  for me to establish  what happened now. Ive seen evidence that 
Ms B received a confirmation  and e-tickets showing normal  flight  information  though,  and I 
think she acted reasonably in relying  on these documents. 
Putting things  right
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Ms Bs complaint  against  TSB. I dont
think it was fair and reasonable for TSB not to refund  the amount Ms B lost through
becoming the victim of a scam. To put her back in the position she was in before the scam 
TSB should refund Ms B what she lost through the scam and also refund interest  as set out 
below.
Ref: DRN20428565My final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require TSB Bank plc to:
-Refund Ms B the £2,078 she lost, less any funds recovered;
-Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple  per annum from the date 
of the transfer  to the date of settlement. If TSB deducts tax from the interest  element 
of this award, it should provide Ms B with an appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2042856