K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss O took out a credit card with NatWest in 2000.  At the same time she was sold a PPI 
policy which  wouldve helped cover her repayments  on the credit card if she wasnt able to 
work.
Miss O says that she doesnt  recall being  asked  if she wanted PPI. She doesnt remember  
agreeing to take it. She says she didnt  need  it.
The adjudicator didnt think Miss Os complaint should be upheld.  Miss O disagrees,  so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Os 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
 I think its likely NatWest made Miss O aware that she had a choice about buying the 
PPI, and that she chose  to take it. I appreciate Miss O doesnt remember  NatWest 
mentioning the PPI but it was a long time ago. And from what I know about how 
NatWest sold PPI at the time,  Miss O would  have had to confirm  she wanted  PPI 
before it was added  to her account.
 NatWest  didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss O so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. 
 Its possible the information NatWest gave Miss O about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Miss O doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. So I dont  think  better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2148320