K821x#15complaint
Mr L on behalf of himself and the other  directors of Business J complains about the amount 
of time it took Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) to change its business partnership account  
over to a limited company account.
background
Business J held a business partnership account  with Barclays. In January 2019 Mr L had a 
meeting with a Barclays business manager to start the process of changing Business Js 
account to a limited  company account.
Following the meeting  the initial business manager  left Barclays  and another was appointed 
to deal with the change  of account.  For reasons that are unclear the opening of the account 
failed to progress  and Mr L complained to Barclays in May 2019.
Barclays accepted  the delays in opening the account was its fault and after agreeing it with 
Mr L paid Business J £100 compensation.
Shortly after, near the end of May,  the business account was opened  but further problems 
arose. Mr L says Barclays failed to issue debit  cards to all the directors  and more  importantly 
the lending Business J had with the previous  account hadnt been transferred over to the 
new account. 
Barclays acknowledged there was a problem  with the transfer of the lending  over to the new 
account because  it didnt hold authorisation of the directors of the limited company  as the 
directors differed to the partners when Business J was a partnership.  Barclays was unable to 
move this forward until the requisite paperwork was completed by all Business Js directors.
Mr L says he had already  gone through this with the first business manager he spoke to and 
was told it would be dealt  with. Mr L was reluctant to go through the process of completing 
the required paperwork because its difficult  to have all the directors together at once to 
provide the authorisation.
Our investigator looked at all of this and thought that further errors and delays had occurred 
after the initial compensation of £100  was paid and that Barclays  should pay Business J a 
further £200 given the inconvenience caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role in this complaint is to look at the 
problems that Business  J has experienced and see if Barclays  has done anything wrong. 
There is no question in this complaint  that Barclays has made some mistakes. So what I 
need to determine is how it should  put things right.  
Im in agreement with our investigator that Barclays  should pay Business J a further £200 
compensation.
I say this because  the £100 Barclays initially paid Business J in May was to compensate for 
the delays in opening Business Js bank account. It is my understanding that at this point 
Ref: DRN23819152Mr L wasnt aware that there was a problem with having the lending that was attached to the 
old business account transferred over.
I can understand Mr Ls frustration when  he found out there  was still work to do to get the 
business account the way it was needed for Business J to trade effectively. And I accept that 
its necessary for Barclays to ensure it has all the correct paperwork completed before it can 
authorise and approve the transfer of the lending to the new account.
While I dont know what Mr L discussed  with the initial business manager  I think its clear 
that there  has been a failure  in communication on Barclays part about what  was needed 
from Business J to change from a partnership account to a limited company account and 
that this has led to unreasonable delays.
Mr L says the delays in sorting this out has caused problems with Business Js suppliers as 
it cant open trade accounts  because of the issue  with the bank accounts  and the business 
is having to pay cash up front which affects its cash flow.
So I think Barclays should further  compensate Business J for the inconvenience caused  by 
its administrative and communication failures.  
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  Mr Ls complaint on behalf of himself and the other directors  of 
Business J against  Barclays Bank UK Plc and direct  it pay Business J a further £200 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Business J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 January 2020.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2381915