K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr B says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr B took out a store card in 1996. He says the PPI was added  on the phone. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FICL didnt  advise Mr B to take out the policy. But, it did have to give him enough clear 
information to decide for himself if the policy was right for him and he wanted to buy it. 
Mr B had a pre-existing medical condition  at the time PPI was added. He was taking 
medication for it. I think it unlikely that his PEMC wouldve been covered under  the policy. I 
think had he been  given clearer information about the limitations on cover and understood 
he wouldnt  have been fully covered under  the policy,  given  the nature of his condition and 
the cost of the policy, he wouldnt  have  thought  it worth it to him, in his circumstances. I think  
it unlikely that he wouldve  taken out PPI, so, I think that hes lost out as a result of what  
FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mr B in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr B would have owed when he closed his credit  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr B owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr B made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr B would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
Ref: DRN26980332rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr B would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mr B 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr B paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mr B 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mr B what  its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint  and order Financial Insurance Company Limited to put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2698033