K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains about the short term loans  she took out with Casheuronet UK LLC trading 
as QuickQuid. Miss W says that she didnt  have enough disposable income  to cover the loan 
repayments. She also says she was stuck in a cycle  of borrowing and dependency. She 
says QuickQuid wouldve  spotted this if it had made better checks and not lent to her. 
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. QuickQuid disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion.  The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision also saying that Miss Ws complaint should be upheld  in 
part. A copy of the background  to the complaint and my provisional findings  are attached 
and form part of this final decision. 
QuickQuid, and Miss W, received my provisional  decision. And no one had anything new to 
add after theyd seen  it.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QuickQuid and Miss W didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. 
So Ive reached  the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons.
what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
To put things right for Miss W, QuickQuid should:
refund  all the interest and charges applied as a result of loans 3b, 3c, 3d; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were,  to the date of settlement; and
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ws credit file about  these  loans;
HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid 
must give Miss W a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
QuickQuid says there is an outstanding balance on loan 4, QuickQuid should remove  any 
interest and charges from this balance and treat any payments made by Miss W as if they 
were payments towards  the capital.  If, once its done that, Miss W still has outstanding 
principal then QuickQuid  may deduct what she owes from the net redress above. 
If Miss W has repaid more that the capital she borrowed  QuickQuid must return these 
amounts to Miss W with interest at 8% per year simple from the date they were incurred until 
the date of payment. 
Ref: DRN22848652my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Miss Ws complaint.
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22848653extract from my provisional  decision
Miss W took out 4 loans between July 2010 and February 2014. Some of the information QuickQuid 
has given us is shown in the table below. 
loan number start dateamount 
borrowedterm (days) end date
1 15/07/2010 £50.00 41 29/12/2010
2 04/01/2011 £100.00 57 07/07/2011
3 05/04/2012 £100.00
3a 08/04/2012 £75.00
3b 10/04/2012 £50.00
3c 12/04/2012 £50.00
3d 13/04/2012 £75.0055 07/11/2013
4 26/02/2014£350  flex credit account. 11 
month term highest 
repayment  was around 
£198outstanding
Miss W increased loan 3 on four occasions. Miss W had problems  repaying loans 2, 3 and 4. I 
understand she has been  unable to repay the full balance on loan 4. 
QuickQuid didnt think  that the Financial Ombudsman Service should look at loan 1 as it was brought  
here too late. After some correspondence Miss W has withdrawn her complaint about  this loan. So I 
want to be clear that I wont look at it here. 
QuickQuid has looked at Miss Ws complaint and said that it should be partly upheld.  It said that it did 
appropriate checks for loans 2 to 4. And these checks showed that the lending was affordable. 
However it said that it couldve asked more questions about how Miss W was using loan 4. It offered 
to refund all the interest and charges for the flex credit from the draw down that was approved  on 6 
May 2014. It said it would offset  this against the outstanding amount she owned  on loan 4. The refund 
of £386.21 would be deducted from the outstanding principal of £949.44.  Miss W didnt accept  this 
offer. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at what Miss W and QuickQuid said and they thought  
Miss Ws complaint should  be partially upheld. The adjudicator thought that QuickQuid had made 
proportionate checks for loans 2, 3, 3a, 3b and loan 4. So she thought that QuickQuids decisions to 
approve these  loans  were  reasonable. 
However, she didnt think that QuickQuid  had made proportionate checks  for loans 3c and 3d. She 
thought if it had then it wouldnt have agreed to approve loan 3d. This is because she didnt think that 
Miss W could  afford  the repayments. And QuickQuid wouldve seen this had it completed better  
checks. She also agreed that QuickQuids  offer to uphold Miss Ws complaint about loan 4 from May 
2014 onwards was reasonable.  
QuickQuid agreed with our adjudicator. It agreed to make an offer to Miss W in line with the 
adjudicators recommendation. Miss W didnt agree with our adjudicator. So as no agreements  been 
reached the complaints  been  passed  to me to me to issue  a decision.
Ref: DRN22848654my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to partially uphold Miss Ws complaint.  I think  this 
complaint should be upheld in respect of 3b, 3c, 3d and loan 4 - and Ill explain  why below.
Before lending  money  to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand whether  
the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a sustainable  manner. A lender  should 
gather enough information  for it to be able to make  an informed decision on the lending. The lending 
shouldnt adversely  impact on a consumers financial situation.  
The guidance and rules  themselves didnt set out compulsory checks. But the key thing was that any 
checks needed  to be proportionate and could take into account a number of different things. This 
could include things such as how much was being lent, the repayments and what  the lender found out 
about the consumer. 
So Ive firstly looked at whether QuickQuid performed proportionate checks. If I think  that the checks  
were proportionate then it usually wouldve been reasonable for it to lend. But if QuickQuid didnt do 
proportionate checks Ive looked at whether it wouldve been  apparent to it that the loan repayments 
were affordable had it done better checks. QuickQuid should  put things right if its likely to have  then 
found that the loan repayments were unaffordable.  
QuickQuid says it:
checked Miss Ws income; and 
looked  at her credit  file and used what it saw there to check if the loans were  affordable for 
her;
And based on what it saw from this it thought it reasonable to lend to Miss W. It also said the 
information from the credit  checks,  and her lending  pattern, didnt indicate that the loans  were 
unaffordable. 
why I think QuickQuids checks  before loans 2 and 3 were  proportionate 
For loan 2 Miss W needed  to repay around £25 the first month and then £125 the month afterwards. 
The repayments were  similar at the outset of loan 3. And there  was just over a six month gap 
between loans 2 and 3. 
Ive also seen  a record of the information Miss W provided when she completed her loan application. 
Miss W said she had a monthly income  of £1,200. These were the second and third loans Miss W 
was taking  with QuickQuid.  And the break in lending  of just over six months was large enough for it 
to be reasonable for QuickQuid to assume that she wasnt dependent on short  term lending. So for 
loan 3 I think  it wouldve been proportionate for QuickQuid to have considered Miss Ws application  
afresh  and therefore  creating a new chain of lending. Overall, I think it was reasonable, in this case, 
for it not to carry  out any further checks given the proportion of the amount being borrowed in relation 
to what  she declared as her monthly income.
So I think QuickQuids  decisions to lend for these loans were reasonable  based on the checks that it 
carried out and Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint about loan 2 and the initial approval  of loan 3
why I dont think QuickQuids checks were proportionate for loans  3a to 3d and loan 4
Ive carefully thought about  what  QuickQuid and Miss W have  provided and what both sides have 
said. 
Ref: DRN22848655As Ive detailed earlier Miss W needed to repay around £125 the month after taking loan 3. However 
the lending for this loan increased very quickly. And the highest repayment went  up to over £200 a 
few days  after the start of the loan. And just over a week later it was near £450.  This was a significant 
increase in a very short  period of time  when considering  that at this point Miss W hadnt  made  any 
repayments to the loan in question.  The loan was now over three times as large  as the initial 
drawdown that QuickQuid lent.  
So I think I think QuickQuid couldve realised over this lending that Miss W may have more serious 
financial problems. And by loan 3c, her third increase  to the loan in short period of time,  QuickQuid 
shouldve also become concerned about whether  it knew  enough about Miss W true financial 
situation.
So, due to these factors,  QuickQuid  shouldve  checked if Miss W had enough disposable  income to 
sustainably repay these  loans. It shouldve  found out about her income and regular expenditure for 
loan 3a. And by loan 3b I think that it wouldve been proportionate  to find out about  Miss Ws normal 
monthly living costs  and regular  financial  commitments including any existing  short term lending.  And 
before approving loans 3c and 3d, I think a proportionate check wouldve likely  included the need to 
verify the information it had obtained. 
I dont think QuickQuid  did this here.  As far as I can see it just found  out about  Miss Ws income. So I 
need to think about what QuickQuid wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks.
what I think proportionate checks would most likely  have  shown
Miss W has provided some information about her financial circumstances this includes some bank 
statements and a recent  credit report. I accept that this isnt exactly  what  QuickQuid wouldve  seen at 
the time. But I think it wouldve found out similar information if it had made proportionate checks, so I 
think its reasonable  to rely on it.
Miss W told QuickQuid that when she took loan 3a her monthly income was £1,200. Shes  told us that 
her regular expenditure was around £450. I think if QuickQuid had asked Miss W further questions 
then it wouldve found out similar amounts. So it would  have been reasonable for it to conclude that 
loan 3a was affordable. 
As I said earlier, for loan 3b QuickQuid shouldve  also found out if Miss W had any other short term 
lending. Looking at her bank  statements  I can see that Miss W did have significant  other short term 
lending. She had taken other short term loans  of over £1,000  in January, February  and March 2012.  
And from what I can see, it would appear  she struggled to repay  this lending and it looks like she still 
had over £700  outstanding. So at this point Miss Ws expected expenditure  was already above her 
income. 
And from loan 3c onwards  QuickQuid shouldve been making a full review of Miss Ws financial 
circumstances. Ive again looked at her banks statements  to see what it wouldve seen if it had done 
this, but again, this wasnt  the only source of information QuickQuid couldve used in order to verify 
information about Miss W. 
Having done this its clear  that Miss W was no longer working. She is in receipt  of benefits  of just over 
£100 a week. She still had large amounts of short term lending outstanding  and she is now struggling 
to pay her regular bills. I think its fair to say that, because she wasnt working, she now had, and 
would have going forward, significant financial  problems.  So I dont think she could  afford to make  the 
repayments to loans 3c and 3d. 
Ref: DRN22848656I think  that QuickQuid  wouldve found out all of this information if it had made  proportionate  checks. 
And I think QuickQuid wouldve seen  Miss W wouldnt  have been able repay  the loans  in a 
sustainable way. So I think that QuickQuid shouldnt have given loans 3b, 3c and 3d to Miss W and I 
think shes lost out as a result of this. So Im proposing  to uphold   Miss Ws complaint about  loans 3b, 
3c and 3d. 
were the checks proportionate before  approving loan 4 and was the loan affordable
Loan 4 was a flex credit account and so is and works  slightly differently to a payday loan. QuickQuid 
gave Miss W a credit limit of £350 at outset and a schedule of repayment lasting over 11 months  if 
Miss W drew this amount  down on the first day of the agreement. The maximum  Miss W would repay, 
if she borrowed the full amount, would be around £200 in the first month.  
Ive thought about whether it wouldve been reasonable for QuickQuid to have carried  out less 
rigorous checks between loan 3 being  repaid and her taking this flex credit account  and I can see 
the gap is around three and a half months.  But I dont think it shouldve due to the problems Miss W 
had repaying loan 3. I dont think  it would  be reasonable  to assume that Miss Ws situation had 
improved. So I dont think QuickQuid did enough  before approving this loan
Miss W has only been able to provide limited further information about her income and expenditure  at 
this time.  I have some  of her bank  statements from before loan 4 was given and a credit report. But 
from what Ive got I think I its reasonable to say that Miss Ws situation hadnt improved.  
Miss W has said that she had taken a loan with her partner to consolidate some of her debts  I can see 
she was making regular,  and ad hoc, repayments to this. I can also see on her bank statements that 
she was still using other  short term lenders  and she had was making sometimes significant  
repayments to other longer term lenders and credit card providers. 
And Miss Ws credit report shows that she had recently defaulted on her current  account  overdraft. 
She also had outstanding, or had recently  satisfied, a number of credit accounts that had been 
passed to a third party debt management business due to defaults and repayment problems.  And 
lastly she has significant  amount of home credit outstanding  that she was very close to defaulting  on, 
which she did do in the near future.  
So it seems  clear to me, even with the limited information that I have,  that Miss W was still in 
significant financial difficulty. And I think QuickQuid wouldve seen this if it had made proportionate 
checks - and I think QuickQuid wouldve seen  Miss W wouldnt have been able repay  this loan in a 
sustainable way. So Im also proposing  to uphold  Miss Ws complaint about  loan 4. 
Ref: DRN2284865