K821x#15complaint
Ms M has a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with Yorsipp Limited. She invested in a 
property development  scheme in Cyprus in 2008. Ms M says Yorsipp has breached the duty 
of care it owes  her in a number of ways when it made that investment on her behalf and she 
claims compensation from it for the losses she has suffered.
background
In 2008 Ms M was advised by an independent  financial adviser, Mr A, to invest in a property 
development scheme in Cyprus that he (Mr A) was planning (the Scheme).  And to transfer 
her pension to a SIPP with Yorsipp in order to make that investment.  
Later Mr As firm, MPFM,  was taken over by Mr B.  Mr A remained involved in the Scheme. 
The regulator, the Financial Services Authority, reviewed some of the pension  switch advice 
the MPFM business  had given.  This was in early  2010.  In mid-2010 MPFM was required to 
undergo a skilled  person  review in relation to advice by MPFM  to invest in the Scheme.  
The review  concluded  that advice given  to some clients  by MPFM  was unsuitable.  
It was understood  that Mr B/MPFM did not have enough money to settle clients entire  
losses and so partial offers were made to a number  of investors in the Scheme.  Ms M has 
recovered £12,458 from Mr B.
Mr B was represented by a law firm.  Later the law firm started  to act for some  investors  in 
the Scheme.  It carried out investigations  on their behalf and then made  complaints to 
Yorsipp about  its conduct in relation to the investments in the Scheme.
The complaint in broad terms is that Yorsipp  paid money from Ms Ms SIPP  to Mr As lawyer 
in Cyprus, Mr C, without  understanding  what it was paying for or what  it was obtaining for Ms 
M in return for the money.  It thought the investment was to be made in the Scheme by 
means of investing  in a limited liability Cypriot company  I will call Company 2.  But Company 
2 did not and has never owned the land to be developed.  (Rather, it was owned by a 
different Cypriot company I will refer to as Company 1.)
Yorsipp argued  that Ms Ms complaint was made too late and should not be considered.  I 
issued a jurisdiction  decision in which I said the complaint  had not been made out of time 
and should be considered.
The complaint was then considered by one of our investigators. During his investigation he 
asked Yorsipp for evidence of any checks  it made before paying over the money for Ms Ms 
investment. Yorsipps lawyers said it did not need  to make the sort of checks the 
investigators questions  seemed  to suggest.  
The investigator did not agree with Yorsipps arguments.  He wrote to the parties with his 
opinion about  the complaint.  He thought it should be upheld.   
Yorsipp did not agree with the investigator  and the complaint was referred  to me to 
determine.  I issued  a provisional decision in May 2019.  In summary it was my view that:
  
Yorsipp had not acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN23922012Yorsipps obligations  as SIPP operator included deciding whether to accept or reject  
an investment.
Yorsipp was required to meet its regulatory  obligations by identifying (and preventing) 
instances of potential consumer detriment. 
It was for Yorsipp as the SIPP operator  to consider the nature of the investment - 
even on the basis  of Yorsipps own argument  that it was only necessary to check  the 
investment exists and satisfies HMRCs requirements.
Yorsipp had paid out money from Ms Ms SIPP  for the Scheme before the structure 
of the Scheme had been finalised.   It had paid out without understanding what  it was 
paying for or what it was obtaining  for Ms M in return.
Yorsipp should  be able to account for the funds it paid out on Ms Ms behalf and it 
seems clear  it cannot do so.
Serious and fundamental allegations  had been  made against  Yorsipp about it failing 
to secure title to anything for Ms Ms SIPP and Yorsipp had still not demonstrated 
that it does hold good title to any reasonable rights  on behalf of Ms M.
It is not fair and reasonable for Yorsipp as a regulated financial services  business to 
seek to rely on an exclusion clause in the trust deed to avoid liability for its errors.
I also set out how I thought Yorsipp should put things  right for Ms M.
Ms Ms lawyers queried the way I said things  should be put right.  Apart  from that query Ms 
M accepted the provisional decision.
Lawyers acting for Yorsipp did not agree with my provisional decision.   They  made a number 
of comments including:
Yorsipp does not dispute that COBS 2.1.1 requires  firms  to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client  and that Principles 2 
and 6 require  a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence  and to 
treat customers fairly.
Yorsipp does not accept that these points impose general free-ranging  duties on 
firms.  They  must be applied  in the context of the services  that the firm has 
undertaken to provide.
It is important  to consider the nature of SIPPs and the role of Yorsipp and the scope 
of its duties in that role. 
Yorsipp satisfied the scope of its duties  by complying with the express instructions it 
has been given.
SIPPs are self-invested or member  directed pension arrangements.  This is clear from 
the statutory background  to SIPPs and the documentation relating  to Yorsipps SIPP.
Yorsipp took clear evidenced steps  to ensure the Scheme was HMRC and Deed and 
Rules compliant.  There is no criticism  in the provisional decision that it did not do so 
or did not do so in a fair and reasonable manner.  It made ongoing  checks  for 
assurance on these points.  Nothing in those ongoing checks  supports the conclusion  
that the investment was unsafe.
In this case Yorsipp  paid over money to a regulated  law firm in Cyprus - a firm 
Yorsipp had made checks upon.   The lawyers  were  responsible for securing good  
title to the investment not Yorsipp.
Yorsipp understood  that Company 2 was intended to act as the purchaser of the 
target development land.  And the funds were  transferred to Mr Cs law firm which 
was acting in that land purchase  and so it follows that the funds were transferred in 
order to obtain  good legal  title as part of the conveyancing process.
Ref: DRN23922013A fair assessment of the complaint requires the ombudsman to take into account  the 
role played by others in this matter  the adviser  and the lawyers.  
It is not fair or reasonable to expect Yorsipp  as a SIPP  administrator  to underwrite or 
indemnify the complainants  professional advisers for their failings by not investing  
the money as expected and or for the failure to evidence that good title had been 
obtained.
This complaint is different from other cases that have been considered by the 
ombudsman service  where there was no professional IFA involved.  This is not a 
case where the SIPP administrator is responsible for the direct investment  into the 
Scheme.  Yorsipp  transferred money  to a regulated adviser which  was then 
responsible for making the direct investment on the complainants  behalf.
The consumer had the benefit  of professional  financial and legal advice as to the 
structure of the Scheme  and how it would generate  a return, the holding  and onwards 
transfer of SIPP  funds, and obtaining good  title to the target properties.  Yorsipps 
role as administrator  did not encompass  these  duties.
Yorsipp acted appropriately.  It was instructed to transfer funds to the lawyers, and it 
did so after making appropriate checks.    The lawyer was then responsible  for 
making the investment. The provisional  decision does not say
owhat additional checks should have been  made
owhat was meant  by it not being safe to pay over money to the lawyers
ohow in the circumstances  any additional checks would have prevented the 
losses the consumer  has suffered.
Yorsipp as SIPP administrator was not under any duty to obtain good title for the 
properties purchased via property investment schemes.  That  obligation lies with the 
consumers adviser  and the lawyer acting in the purchase of the property to whom 
the money was paid.   Yorsipp understands the money has been used to buy multiple  
properties by a number of companies  linked with the lawyer Mr C.  It is making 
further enquiries in this respect.   But any issues relating to those properties  are 
performance issues that Yorsipp is not responsible for.
The trust deed includes an exclusion of liability that is common  in the industry and 
consistent with the underlying philosophy of SIPPs.  The  consumer agreed to it when 
she applied for Yorsipps SIPP with the benefit of professional  advice.  A fair and 
reasonable assessment of the complaint should  apply this agreed provision.
The relevant  part says, neither the Scheme Trustee nor the Scheme Administrator 
 shall be liable for any acts or omission not due to their own deliberate  bad faith.
The consumers representative did not challenge  the exclusion.  He  argued that 
Yorsipp acted with deliberate bad faith.   But there has been no bad faith by Yorsipp 
who has reasonably  discharged its duties.   
If the complaint is upheld  any redress  should  allow for the SIPP fees as these  would have 
been incurred  in any event.
my findings
It remains my view that we can consider this complaint.
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN23922014what I must  take into account:
Im required  (by DISP 3.6.4R) to decide  this complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case.  In considering what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case  I must take into account:
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; and codes of 
practice
and, where relevant,  what I consider  to have been good industry practice  at the relevant 
time.
comments about  Principles for Business and SIPP operators:
In my view, the FSA, now FCAs Principles for Business are of particular relevance to my 
decision on what is fair and reasonable in this case.  
In British Bankers  Association, R (on the application of) v The Financial Services Authority & 
the Financial Ombudsman Service [2011]  EWHM  999 (Admin) Ouseley J said at paragraph 
162:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever present  substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles  always have to be complied with. The specific rules do not supplant 
them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific applications of them  to the 
particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the 
application of the Principles is inappropriate.  It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to 
augment specific rules.  
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach  
a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what  would  be fair and 
reasonable and what redress to afford.  Even if no Principles had been  produced by the FSA, 
the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular  statutory  duty without having  regard to the sort 
of high level Principles which  find expression  in the Principles, whoever formulated them.  
They are of the essence  of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about their 
relationship to specific rules.
So, the Principles  have a wide application, and I need to have regard to them when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The FSA and the FCA have made  a number  of publications which remind SIPP operators of 
their obligations  and set out how they might  achieve the outcomes envisaged by the 
Principles: 
The 2009 and 2012 thematic  review reports.
The October 2013 guidance.  
The July 2014  Dear  CEO  letter.
The September 2009 report included  the following:
We are concerned by a relatively widespread  misunderstanding among  SIPP operators that 
they bear little or no responsibility  for the quality  of the SIPP  business that they administer, 
because advice is the responsibility of other parties, for example Independent  Financial 
Advisers (IFAs)
Ref: DRN23922015We are very clear  that SIPP operators, regardless  of whether they provide advice, are bound  
by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure  the fair treatment of 
their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a client for 
COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle  6 includes  clients. It is the responsibility  
of SIPP operators  to continuously  analyse  the individual risks to themselves and their clients, 
with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely  as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice  
given by third parties  such as IFAs. However, we are also clear  that SIPP operators  cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility,  and we would expect them  to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing  management information, enabling them  to 
identify possible instances  of financial crime and consumer detriment such  as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances  could then be addressed in an appropriate  way, for example by 
contacting the member to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving  advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover,  while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental 
to clients.
Of particular  concern were  firms whose systems and controls were  weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial  crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP  operators  who do not safeguard their customers 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business  (a firm 
must take reasonable  care to organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively, with 
adequate risk management  systems).
The following are examples  of measures  that SIPP operators could  consider, taken  from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions  we have made  to firms: 
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise  clients are 
authorised and regulated  by the FSA,  that they have the appropriate permissions to give the 
advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website  
listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business  agreements governing  relationships, and clarifying  respective 
responsibilities, with intermediaries  introducing SIPP business.  
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP  investment) and size of 
investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice  and introduce clients to the 
firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify  anomalous  investments,  e.g. unusually small or large transactions  or 
more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with the intermediary that 
introduced the business.  This would  enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from 
the client  or their adviser, if it is concerned about  the suitability of what  was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided  to clients by the intermediary  giving  
advice. While  SIPP operators are not responsible for advice,  having this information would 
enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable  SIPPs less 
likely.Routinely identifying instances of execution-only  clients who have signed disclaimers  taking 
responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data regarding the 
aggregate volume of such business.
Ref: DRN23922016Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for this.
The 2012  report  included  the following:
Principle 2 of the Principles for Business,  states a firm must conduct its business  with due
skill, care and diligence.
Some SIPP operators were unable  to demonstrate that they are conducting adequate  due 
diligence on the investments held by their members or the introducers  who use their 
schemes, to identify potential  risks to their members  or to the firms itself. In some firms this 
was made worse by an over-reliance on third parties to conduct  due diligence on behalf of the 
operator. In some cases this has resulted in taxable investments being inadvertently held, and 
monies invested  in potentially  fraudulent investments. 
In the October  2013 SIPP operator guidance,  the FCA said:
This guide,  originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended  
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became  a requirement in April 
2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide  advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS  3.2.3(2) is clear that a member  of a pension scheme  is a client 
for SIPP operators  and so is a customer under Principle  6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The Dear CEO letter provides a reminder  that the Principles apply and an indication  of the 
FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical  steps a SIPP operator might  reasonably  take 
to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. The letter  said:
As you may be aware, we have recently conducted a thematic review of SIPP operators 
following up on the guidance we issued  in October 2013 (FG13/8). In this review, we focused 
on:
The due diligence procedures SIPP operators used to assess  non-standard investments, 
and
How all firms were adhering to the relevant prudential  rules.
During our review, we found  that a significant number of SIPP operators are still failing  to 
manage these  risks and ensure consumers  are protected appropriately,  despite our recent 
guidance. In our view,  the failings we identified put UK consumers pension savings at 
considerable risk, particularly from scams and pension  fraud.  We have already discussed  this 
with the firms concerned,  explaining that these  failings  are unacceptable and need to be 
addressed.
I am now writing  to you, and the CEOs of all SIPP operators, because our thematic review  
indicates that these failings continue and are widespread, despite previous communications.  
We are concerned that many firms in this sector  continue to demonstrate a lack of 
engagement with some  areas of their regulatory obligations, and hence pose a threat to the 
quality of outcomes experienced by consumers.
I would encourage  you to review the key findings from our thematic review in the Annex to 
this letter, and ask you to take action to ensure  that your business is able to demonstrate an 
appropriate degree of protection for consumers pension  savings.
Ref: DRN23922017Where firms fail to meet our expectation and continue to put UK consumers outcomes  at risk 
we will take further action.
Although I have only quoted selected parts of the publications, to illustrate  their relevance, I 
have considered them in their entirety.  
I acknowledge that the 2009  and 2012 reports and Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013  guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and Dear 
CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance does not mean their importance should be 
underestimated. As mentioned, they provide  a reminder that the Principles for Businesses  
apply and are an indication for the kinds of things  a SIPP operator might do to produce the 
outcomes envisaged  by the Principles. So I must view them  as significant.
I recognise that these  publications were made after the events subject to complaint, but the 
Principles that underpin  them existed  throughout. Yorsipps  regulatory obligations existed 
from the outset of Ms Ms relationship with it. So the reports, letter  and guidance  which 
each gave the regulators view on the kinds of steps  a SIPP  operator  might take in practice 
to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles  are each relevant considerations in 
this case. Some were issued after the events subject to complaint, but the regulations  and 
Principles that underpin  them existed  throughout.
It is also clear  from the text of the 2009  and 2012  reports and the Dear CEO letter  in 2014
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended  good
practices into the conduct of their business already.  So, whilst the regulators comments  
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the standards  shaped what  was 
expected of SIPP operators changed  over time, it is clear the standards themselves did not 
change. 
Further it is clear that some of the comments made  by FSA were shaped  by observation of 
good practice within the industry at the time it carried out its reviews.   As such  it is evidence  
of good industry  practice at the time I can take into account.
That doesnt  mean that in considering what  is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Yorsipps actions with these documents in mind.  The reports,  letter and guidance gave non-
exhaustive guidance.  They did not say the suggestions given were the limit of what  a SIPP  
operator should do. As the annex  to the Dear CEO letter  notes, what should be done  to 
meet regulatory obligations is dependent on the circumstances.  Ultimately,  it was for a 
business to decide for itself how to meet its regulatory obligations  it should  not have been 
reliant on the regulators to tell it what to do. Ultimately, Im looking at whether, in making  the 
investment in the Scheme on behalf of Ms M, Yorsipp treated Ms M fairly  and reasonably. 
And, in doing  that, Im looking to the Principles for Businesses and the publications listed to 
provide indications of what  Yorsipp should  have done to act fairly  and reasonably  in relation  
to Ms M. 
I consider that the FCAs Principles 2, and 6 are of particular relevance to my decision about 
what is fair and reasonable in this case.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). Principles which are of particular relevance are 2, and 6:
Ref: DRN23922018Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 6  Customers  interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests  of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
In this case, the business Yorsipp was conducting  was its operation of SIPPs.  I am satisfied  
that meeting its obligations when conducting  this business would include deciding to accept 
or reject particular investments. 
I consider Yorsipp was required  to meet its regulatory obligations  by identifying (and 
preventing) instances  of potential consumer detriment. This should  not be confused with 
providing advice  on the suitability of an investment or overall arrangement for a consumers 
needs and circumstances. The fact that Yorsipp was not authorised  to give advice did not 
preclude it from meeting  its regulatory  obligations  by thinking carefully about the business it 
was accepting. And declining to accept business  does  not amount to providing advice. 
Yorsipp could have  declined to accept Ms Ms instructions without providing her with 
investment advice. 
good industry  practice
The regulator's reports, guidance  and letter  referred  to above go a long way to clarify what  
should be regarded  as good practice  and what should not. In my view, it was good practice 
to check before accepting  an investment into a SIPP that it was what it purported to be. 
In another complaint that was subject to judicial review challenge it was reported  in that case 
that the SIPP operator provided the ombudsman in that case with a statement from a trade 
association honorary  secretary.  It said enquiries by an operator in 2011 (the time that was 
relevant to the case) might usually  be made  into "matters affecting title, HMRC compliancy, 
compliance, money laundering and overt criminal activity ".   I think it was good industry 
practice to check such matters in 2008 ie at the time of events in this complaint. 
the roles of the various parties
Ms M is the complainant.  She became a member of a Yorsipp SIPP through  which she was 
an investor in the Scheme. Ms M is assisted  in the complaint by her lawyer.
Ms M was advised to switch her pension to a SIPP to invest in the Scheme by Mr A using a 
trading name I have  shortened to MPFM.  Ms M was therefore a client of Mr A.  
Later Mr B took over that MPFM business  the adviser business.  
Yorsipp (Trustees) Limited is the trustee  of the SIPP.  The key features document  for the 
Yorsipp SIPP in 2007/08 said:
Yorsipp (Trustees) Limited is the [SIPP] trustee and they have  chosen  to delegate 
the day to day management and administration  to Yorsipp Limited.
Since 2007 operating a personal pension, including a SIPP, has been  a regulated activity. 
Yorsipp is a regulated  business.  Its the operator of the SIPP in this complaint.  
Ref: DRN23922019At least  some, if not all, of the employees  and/or officers of Yorsipp seem to work for both 
entities and at the time of events in this complaint used an email address with 
@Yorsipp.com that did not distinguish between the two entities.  The main point of contact 
between Yorsipp/Yorsipp  (Trustees) Ltd and Mr C, and the person  involved in sending or 
receiving the emails I refer to below, was a senior officer of both Yorsipp and Yorsipp  
(Trustees) Limited. The knowledge  and understanding of the Scheme of the two entities was 
therefore effectively  the same.  I will generally  refer to Yorsipp throughout for simplicity and 
only distinguish between  the two entities if necessary.   
As a member of a Yorsipp SIPP, Ms M is also a client of Yorsipp.  Its the respondent firm in 
the complaint.   It's also assisted by its lawyers  in this complaint.  
Yorsipp did not advise Ms M to invest in the Scheme.   Nor did it manage the Scheme.  Its 
only role was operator or administrator of the SIPP.
It seems  Mr A was the instigator of the Scheme.  It  seems  to have been his idea and he 
managed or operated the Scheme either personally or through a company or companies he 
owns or controls which are distinct from the MPFM adviser business transferred to Mr B.
Mr A was assisted by a lawyer in Cyprus, Mr C.  Mr C had a law firm I will just refer to as 
Mr Cs law firm.  He  also had another business, described as a professional  services  firm 
providing business advisory and company administration  services, which  I will call Mr Cs 
services business.  And he has a nominee or custodian  business.
Yorsipp (Trustees) Limited entered into a Fiduciary Services  Agreement between it, 
Company 2 and Mr Cs services business.   That agreement  is dated 10 December 2007 and 
includes a Declaration  of Trust in which Mr Cs services business declares it holds 1,000 
shares in Company 2 in trust for Yorsipp  (Trustees) Limited.  That Declaration is also dated 
10 December 2007. (This does not however seem  to be the date they were signed  as will be 
seen below.)
the investment in this case   the proposal
The investment in this case seems  to have been  based on or have its origin  in an undated 
document headed The Proposal, as follows:
The Proposal
At present, it is difficult to find investments  which  offer both reasonable potential  growth whilst 
also being cautious/balanced when it comes to risk.
With this is in mind, [MPFM] in conjunction with Firms in Cyprus have put together an 
investment opportunity investing into a property development in the heart of Larnaca which 
will be developed over the next 2/3 years.
It is proposed to offer some  specific clients of [MPFM] the opportunity to invest into this type 
of arrangement using their pension funds by way of investment via a SIPP  (Self Invested 
Pension Plan). 
This type of investment, a SIPP, means that a client is more in control  of where  their pension  
money is invested which can be, for example, either property or share portfolios.
The plan is to have approximately twelve clients who will invest pension money using  a 
Yorsipp contract allowing them access to invest into property development in Larnaca, Cyprus 
without the need to be actively involved in finding property/land or developing  the same.
Ref: DRN239220110The development,  of which details are attached,  will have the mixture of provide [sic] 
investors and SIPP investors.   The attraction of this type of proposal is that you will invest  into 
this plan for a period of approximately  three years after which the property will be sold either 
on the open market or it has been agreed by the developer that there will be a guaranteed 
buy-back and that will be at the purchase price.  Therefore there are limited  downsides by 
way of risk whilst having potential  for capital  growth over three years.
More specifically  looking  at the risk profile  of this type of investment I would  highlight that 
there is a guaranteed buy-back from the developer, at the purchase price  along  with paying  
any legal fees.  This, therefore, makes the investment a limited downside but leaves the 
potential for capital growth.  This is also important  as the SIPP cannot  invest  in residential 
property and this development  will be deemed residential  when the completion certificate is 
granted.  To  this end, the guaranteed buy-back would come into play.
It is also worth pointing out that there is the potential for currency  fluctuations between  
Sterling and the Euro, however, as we have  in the last few months Sterling seems to [sic] 
weakening and the Euro is strengthening,  however, there is no guarantees and is something 
that cannot  be predicted very easily.
Finally, I would confirm that you will not personally  own an apartment or part of the 
development outright. 
The above  is a general description  of an investment proposition or idea.  More  details of the 
proposed development were given in a brochure. But it is clear  from the above  that the 
intention was to invest in property development within  a pension  not, say, to invest  in 
individual apartments to occupy. 
The brochure consisted of:
an artists impression of the intended  development
two tables listing the proposed number of apartments in blocks A, B and C and 
details like number of bedrooms, size, and so on  
an artists impression of the view from the balcony of one of the proposed apartments
floor plans for apartment  302 in block B
floor plans for apartment  301 in block B
floor plans for the apartment type used for rooms 101,102, 201 and 202 of Block  B
a further artists impression of the intended development
a final page  giving  the address of the proposed development.
So it is clear that the intention  was to develop a specific plot of land at a specific  location in 
Cyprus.  It  was not, say, an investment in a property developer with an unspecified portfolio 
of development  projects. 
when was Ms Ms investment?
Ms M applied for a SIPP  with Yorsipp on 25 September 2008. The application  was endorsed  
with the following handwritten comments:
I authorise  pension  £96,000 of my pension fund to be transferred to the client account  of [Mr 
C] & Company, Larnaca, Cyprus for property purchase.
Ref: DRN239220111In fact, that endorsement  was not on the application  form as such it was on a form called 
Yorsipp Property Questionnaire.  The endorsement  was dated 25 September  2008 but I 
note it was not sent to Yorsipp by MPFM until December 2008.
It is accepted by the parties that only the last two pages of that 13 page form were  
completed as the full standard form was not considered appropriate for the Scheme.   It was 
nevertheless understood that the instructed payment was in respect of the Scheme 
investment. 
This was not therefore a simple instruction only to pay money  to the client account of a law 
firm.  It was and was understood to be a payment instruction made  in respect  of an 
investment in the Scheme despite  that not being completely clear  on the face of the 
document itself.  
Ms Ms SIPP  was opened on 26 September 2008.  Money was transferred into the SIPP 
from another pension  provider  on 15 December  2008.  On 24 December 2008 Yorsipp made 
a payment out of £96,000 from the SIPP which it recorded in the SIPPs records  as 
Purchase - Cyprus. 
company 2
The involvement of Company  2 - and the working relationship  between  Yorsipp and/or 
Yorsipp (Trustees) Limited and Mr C can be seen in the various  emails  I refer to below.  
In an email in October 2007 Yorsipp attached some notes it prepared  relating to the Scheme 
and its requirements following a meeting with Mr C and possibly  Mr A.  The notes are 
addressed to Mr C and included:
[Mr C]
As discussed at our meeting the best way to proceed with the investment is to appoint you to 
act on our behalf in the purchase  process.   I have broken down the professional  appointments 
needed to allow the purchase  to proceed.
Holding the property
Your presentation highlighted  the most efficient  way of holding the property is via a Cypriot 
company, which therefore makes the owner  of the property the company  and the SIPP 
investors would be shareholders.  I have attached the HMRC notes on conditions  in which we 
may invest in a vehicle holding residential property
Where we are investing through a company my main concern will be checking it has not 
breached the residential property rules at the time of purchase and on an ongoing basis.  We 
would, on an annual basis, write to the companys  secretary for confirmation the company  still 
adheres to the terms for residential property.
I understand from [Mr A] that there will be no Information Memorandum  produced.  However I 
will need  to see some  form of document to show the intentions  of the company. 
For each  of the members investing in the company  we will require an instruction letter  to 
invest in the property  along with confirmation of the level of investment.   A disclaimer that we 
have not made any investment recommendation  and any liability of Yorsipp (Trustees)  Ltd is 
restricted to the members assets in the trust will also be required
Ref: DRN239220112In an email dated 15 March 2008  from Mr C to Yorsipp, Mr C said:
Following my meeting  with [Mr A] in London last week please be kind enough to clarify to me 
some issues in order for me to finalise  the structure.
I have received so far directly from Yorsipp  into my clients  account  stirling 689,212,53.  I  need 
to know  the amount send [sic] by each of your members  in order to allocate  the shares  
accordingly
At present the company  exists however  [one of my firms companies] holds the shares  in 
trust for [Mr A] until you inform me of the allocation.
As far as I know the investment is for [the Scheme].
Please also instruct me whether I will remain director into the company or you will appoint  
one.  If I remain I need to know who will be giving me instructions
While Ms M had not yet invested at this stage it can be seen that investments had been 
made in the Scheme for other members by Yorsipp  and that the structure  and the 
accounting seems unclear. 
On 25 July 2008 one of Mr Cs colleagues from his firm emailed Yorsipp.  The  email  
included:
Please find attached two drafts of the contract  of sale for the purchase of apartments for 
the pension fund, one with payment structured according  to stages  of completion of 
apartments and the other stating that the majority  of the funds will be paid upon signing.  Euro 
30,000 to be paid upon delivery  of the apartments and Euro 6,000 to be paid upon  issuance 
of the title deed for the apartments.  Please bear in mind that three contracts,  one for each 
apartment can be prepared  if you so wish.
Please also find attached the certificates of the company [ie Company 2], which will be the 
purchaser of the separate apartments.   It is a shelf company that has already been 
incorporated by our office and we can apply  to the Registrar of Companies for the changes to 
be made so that Yorsipp  (Trustees) Ltd will be the shareholder of 100% of shares and then 
the Trust Agreements between Yorsipp  (Trustees) and each of the beneficiaries,  stating that 
Yorsipp (Trustees) is holding certain percentage of shares  on trust for each  beneficiary 
according to his contribution.   Please also find attached a specimen of such  trust agreement  
for your review and comments
Futhermore, could you please  kindly advise whether  you wish the contracts to be backdated 
or not.  
It is our understanding that the company  must  not be a closed company.  Please verify 
whether you agree with the following analysis:
1)The vehicle will hold three properties  directly, and the properties are residential 
properties:
2)No asset  (ie any of the three  apartments) has a value that exceeds 40% of the total value 
of the assets
3)The above point  can be supported by an evaluation
4)The vehicle is a company, which  is not resident  in the UK
On 22 August 2008 Yorsipp chased  Mr C for the information it wanted.  In  an email  it said:
Ref: DRN239220113 It is quite urgent  I sort out our records and need the basic information for next Friday so 
we can run our reports  in September.  The revenue [ie HMRC] have made  it very clear that all 
conditions for investing in the property cant not [sic] be shown they will levy a penalty, the 
total tax bill can amount  to 70%...
Later the same day Mr C emailed Yorsipp  and said:
I will prepare  a new structure  ans [sic] send it to you on Monday for approval
On 25 August 2008 Mr C emailed Yorsipp as follows:
I hereby  provide you with an alternative solutionAs already explained  a shelf  company 
will be used [Company  2] with registration number   Incorporation date is 10th December 
2007.
Director is [Mr C].
Shareholder [Mr C].
I suggest  that the shares are transferred to my company that provides services 
[Mr Cs nominee  business] and a trust agreement is signed  between my firm and the 
members.
My firm will issue certificates in the format you have requested in Yorsipp (Trustees) Ltd
My Firm will also be the director of [Company 2].
I believe that through this structure all conditions  are met
Please let me know whether you agree  in order to proceed and send everything over for 
signature otherwise  please proceed and advise  the exact structure you need
Yorsipp replied on 1 September 2008:
I am a lot clearer on the company.  I do have some questions on the trust agreement.
The legal owner is Yorsipp (Trustees) Ltd, our trust deed and rules will show the member  as 
the beneficiary under the pension  scheme.  This would allow for the delegation of powers to 
be between Yorsipp (Trustees) Ltd and yourself, we would seek approval  for this from the 
members.
I do not fully understand the trust arrangement  you sent.   I was expecting  an agreement  with 
yorsipp [sic] appointing your firm to act as nominee for us.  I am unclear as to why the 
agreement you sent would have [Company  2] on it.
I hope I am explaining the structure we normally use, of course  we are dealing with two legal 
systems albeit  very similar. 
So it is clear from the above that the role of Company 2 and the structure of the investment 
more generally had not been resolved in December 2007 (when the Fiduciary  Services  
Agreement and Declaration of Trust are dated)  since the involvement of Company 2 was not 
suggested until the summer of 2008. 
what happened  to the investment?
According to Ms Ms representative the story is involved.  In  summary and anonymised  form, 
Ms Ms representative says:
Mr A was an IFA in the UK who traded as MPFM.
Mr A also owned the 100 issued shares in MPFM Ltd which  was separate to his IFA 
business.
In 2007 the shares in MPFM Ltd were  transferred to Mr C the lawyer in Cyprus. 
Ref: DRN239220114Mr A was made bankrupt in Scotland in early 2008.
Later papers  were filed at UK Companies  House to show  the shares in MPFM Ltd 
had been transferred  to a Cypriot company I will call Company 3.
The shares in Company  3 are owned  by another Cypriot Company - Company 4.  
And the shares  in Company 4 are owned  by a close relation of Mr A.
The investment  Scheme involved building apartments at a specific site in Cyprus  
which was owned by Company 1.
Company 1 had mortgages registered on the land in 2007  and 2008.  The  mortgages  
totalled about 1.75 million Cypriot  Pounds.
In July 2008 MPFM Ltd acquired  all 1,000 issued shares in Company 1.  MPFM Ltd 
therefore indirectly acquired the land subject  to the mortgages secured on it.  And  
MPFM Ltd is effectively owned  by Mr As relation.
Also in July 2008 Mr A was appointed sole director of Company 1.
Company 2 was set up originally by or for Mr C or one of his businesses.  He  owned 
all the issued shares.  It was to be used to acquire and develop the property or 
acquire the shares  of the company that owned  the property  (Company 1).
The shares in Company  2 were held in trust for Yorsipp by Mr Cs services business  
from December 2008.
Company 2 did not however acquire the land from Company 1 or the shares in 
Company 1.
As at 2016 the land was still owned by Company 1 but there  had been  no 
development on the land and there was no planning permission  to develop it.
According to Yorsipp and its recently appointed  Cypriot lawyers:
Company 2 was struck off the Cypriot register of companies in 2016.
 
The main purpose of the investment was the [Scheme] project which  from our own 
enquiries appears to have  run into trouble with the financing bank  foreclosing on 
the mortgage on the plots on which the project would have been constructed.  
It is not clear  what has happened  to the money that was paid out of Ms Ms SIPP  account.   It 
was paid to Mr Cs law firm and as far as I am aware  it has not given a precise accounting 
for the funds it received.   
Accordingly, as late as March 2012 Yorsipp sent the following email to Mr C.
As previously  mentioned  I have  not received  any of the accounts  or financial information  
on [Company 2] that I have requested. I desperately need  this information to provide comfort 
to our compliance people.
If I can reiterate  it is not for me to consider the nature of the investment but rather  account  for 
the funds that have  been  sent.
As far as I am aware  the position has not changed  materially since  Yorsipp sent that email.  
For example, as recently as when responding to my provisional decision Yorsipps lawyers 
said:
Yorsipp intends  to provide  a further update on the status of the Complainants  investment in 
due course.   However  in the context of this Complaint  we are able to confirm  that Yorsipp 
obtained advice from Cypriot law firm [name given] in connection with the status of the 
Scheme.  [That firm] has met with [Mr Cs law firm] to discuss  the Scheme [and] has been told 
Ref: DRN239220115that the investment monies received from Yorsipp were used to purchase multiple properties  
in Cyprus.  Different holding companies were set up to purchase these properties.
[The new Cypriot law firm] is waiting  to receive  back the results of Cypriot  Land Registry 
searches it has conducted  against the names on these companies
It is expected  that the results of these Land Registry Searches will then evidence what 
properties these companies own.  In turn it will help [the new Cypriot law firm] to advise  upon 
the status of the Complainants investment
For the avoidance  of doubt Yorsipp  considers the current status of the Scheme is an 
investment performance issue which the [ombudsman  service] has already concluded is not 
something Yorsipp is obliged to guarantee or is responsible  for. 
Yorsipp has provided  no update on the outcome of the enquiries being  made  on its behalf.  
some comments about  the nature  of SIPPs
In general terms a personal pension scheme  is an arrangement  in which  a consumer saves  
money to build up a fund to be used to provide an income in retirement.   To encourage such  
saving, pension schemes get favourable  tax treatment  compared to most other forms of 
investments.  But those tax advantages are subject  to conditions. One of them is that the 
investor does not have  completely free access to the money that is invested. And one of the 
ways that access is controlled is that the money is paid over to a third party and not held by 
the investor.  
Often a pension scheme, as in this case, involves a trust arrangement.   And in broad terms 
the pension trustee  holds  the pension savings for the investor.    Those savings are usually 
used to buy investments  that are held within the pension arrangement.  And with a SIPP the 
member has a high degree  of control  over the investments  the member directs the trustee 
as to which investments  are to be held in the scheme.  The investments are legally owned 
by the pension trustee who holds them for the benefit of the member  of the scheme.
I note the comments made  by Yorsipps lawyers about the legislative background and 
philosophy of SIPPs.  In particular I note that the intention with a SIPP is that the member  
directs the way the SIPP is invested.  And I note that the role of the SIPP operator is distinct  
from and different to that of any adviser  the member  choses to consult in relation to the 
investments in the SIPP.  I also note, for example that the FSA said in its report of 2009:
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties  such as IFAs.
SIPP operators do however have duties  and obligations as SIPP operators  that point is not 
disputed by Yorsipp  although the extent of those duties is. 
Another point  about SIPPs that is relevant  to this complaint is that there are restrictions on 
the types of investment that may be held in SIPPs in order  for the SIPP  to qualify for 
preferential treatment and/or not suffer tax penalties.  These restrictions  have been referred  
to as HMRC requirements or rules or conditions in this complaint.  One  such requirement is 
that SIPPs may not invest in residential  property.   They can however invest in a company or 
fund that invests  in residential  properties if certain  conditions are met.  
Yorsipp summarised HMRCs conditions to Mr C in October 2007 as follows:
Ref: DRN239220116The fund value must be at least £1 million
It must  have at least three properties
No one property must exceed 40% of the value of the fund
The member, along with anyone connect to the member, must  not hold more  than 10% of the 
fund.  We would normally  expect a minimum of 10 unconnected persons.
obligation to carry out the members instruction  
Yorsipp has suggested  that it did as it was required to do by complying with its members 
instructions to pay money to Mr Cs law firm.  I accept the general principle of a SIPP  is that 
the member decides  how to invest their pension fund and gives directions or instructions to 
the SIPP operator who makes those investments on behalf of the member.   However,  it is 
clear from the above that there  are some restrictions on the investments a member of a 
SIPP may make in order to qualify  for preferential tax treatment.  And so Yorsipp did make  
some checks before  it made the investment in this case. 
It is not sufficient answer to this complaint to say that Yorsipp  followed  the instruction it was 
given. This point was considered in the case of Berkeley Burke  Sipp Administrators v 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  [2018] EWHC  2878 (Admin).  In  that case the SIPP  provider 
argued that it was obliged  to execute  the instruction a member had given by COBS11.2.19R.  
And on that point the judge said:
132there is no difficulty in concluding,  as the Ombudsman concluded,  that the Principles 
were applicable to the question of whether  BBSAL should  accept  the investment in the first 
place, and that COBS 11.2.19R applied to the execution of the transaction  once that decision 
was made
134. First, the Principles are indeed  the ever-present sub-strata or overarching framework 
which stood over COBS  11.2.19R  
135.Secondly, any suggestion that a SIPP provider  must, as a result of COBS 11.2.19R,  
execute a transaction, regardless of the duties contained in the Principles, produces 
surprising results  and in my view cannot be right.  A number of examples were given  during 
the course of argument as to circumstances in which, having received an instruction, the 
SIPP provider would or might  think  it inappropriate to proceed,  or at the very least  query  the 
transaction with his client. These  included situations where:  (1) the proposed investment was 
not then "SIPPable"; i.e. was not eligible for the tax benefits  of putting an investment  into a 
SIPP; (2) the SIPP provider  knew that although it was then SIPPable, there had been a 
legislative change  which meant that it would no longer be SIPPable in a few months time; (3) 
the SIPP  provider had received information which cast doubt on the integrity  of those  who 
were promoting the proposed investment,  or as to whether underlying assets actually existed;  
(4) the SIPP  provider had learnt of problems, such as a possible insolvency,  which affected  
the proposed  investment. In all of these situations, I consider that there is scope for the 
operation of the Principles, and that COBS 11.2.19R does not mandate the SIPP provider to 
proceed to execute the transaction. This is consistent with the underlying purpose of the 
COBS rules, which have their origin in MiFID,  namely  consumer protection.
136. Thirdly,  it seemed  to me that, ultimately,  BBSAL did not dispute that the Principles were  
potentially applicable in some situations; so that in certain circumstances a SIPP provider  
could and should properly  decline to accept an investment. In his oral opening submission, 
when asked whether there was a duty to execute even if the investment was not SIPPable, 
Mr. Kirk sensibly  submitted that the obligation to execute was not "immutable". He accepted 
that there were  some circumstances   where  execution would further a fraud, or breach the 
criminal law such  as the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, or where existing  express duties were  
incompatible with execution  where  the SIPP  provider  could decline  to execute 
Ref: DRN239220117137. In my view once it is accepted (correctly) that COBS 11.2.19R was not immutable and 
did not override  the Principles, the question of the application of the Principles to the 
particular circumstances of the case was a matter  for the Ombudsman If, as I conclude,  the 
Principles have  room  to operate in a situation  where COBS 11.2.19R is potentially applicable, 
then it was for the Ombudsman to decide how the Principles apply in a particular  context
the involvement of Mr A and Mr Cs law firm (1)
Yorsipp has argued  that its position  is different to the SIPP  administrator in the above case.  
It says in its case it was not responsible for the direct investment.  It transferred the money to 
a regulated law firm which was responsible  for making the direct investment. And in this 
case, unlike  in the above case, Ms M had the benefit of professional  financial and legal 
advice.  
In my view it is not clear Mr C or his law firm were  acting  for Ms M at the time she invested in 
the Scheme through her SIPP.  Or  that Mr A acting on Ms Ms behalf  obtained  Mr Cs 
advice.  It seems to be the case that Mr A consulted  Mr C on the investment proposal he 
was formulating  and in which Ms M later invested.   It seems Mr A consulted Mr C in his 
capacity as a potential operator  and then operator  of the Scheme.  And perhaps also as an 
IFA generally since he wanted to promote the Scheme to the clients  of his IFA business.  It 
is not however  clear  that Mr A consulted Mr C on Ms Ms behalf.
It is however clear that there was a relationship between  Mr C or his firm and Yorsipp and/or 
Yorsipp (Trustees) Ltd at around that time.  
All of that said, Yorsipp  did know that Mr A was a regulated adviser  advising Ms M and that 
Mr C or his law firm was advising  Mr A.  And  there was no regulated financial adviser 
involved in the investment  in the Berkeley  Burke  case.
However, while it is the case there are some differences, it seems  to me that Yorsipp 
similarly accepts  that the obligation to execute  a members instructions is not immutable 
since it says it was under a duty to check whether the investment was permitted  under  
HMRCs and under its own rules.  The implication is that if an investment was not permitted 
under one or other  or both sets of rules Yorsipp would not have  made the investment. And 
even if that is not Yorsipps  position  it is my view that that is the conclusion it should have 
come to if it had concluded  that one or other  or both sets of rules were not satisfied.  In my 
view it also follows  that Yorsipp ought not to have made the investment  until reasonably 
satisfied that the relevant rules were  complied with and not, say, invest first and check  or 
(finish checking) later.
Yorsipps point is perhaps more that it was reasonable for it to rely on the members  
professional financial  and legal advisers in forming its view when making its checks.
There is no real suggestion by Yorsipp that it could just abandon  its checks because of the 
involvement of the professional financial and legal advisers.  It does not say it could just 
assume all was in order  because other professionals  were involved. And whether or not that 
is Yorsipps position,  in my view it is not appropriate for the SIPP  operator  to make 
assumptions about any matters which ought to concern it  such  as compliance with 
HMRCs requirements   just because the members IFA had advised the member that the 
investment was suitable for her to invest her pension in.  
Ref: DRN239220118So it remains my view that Yorsipp  had to make  checks  that were  appropriate to the 
circumstances even  on its own argument. And it follows that it should have been satisfied 
with the outcome of those checks before it paid out any money on behalf  of a member.   
what checks did Yorsipp make?
Understandably Yorsipp did not make  an investment based on The Proposal document  
alone.  There were meetings and exchanges of emails  with Mr C and Mr A.
Lawyers for Yorsipp have  argued the following:
at [the time of events in this case] and acting in its capacity as a SIPP administrator, 
[Yorsipp] was only required to assess whether or not a prospective  investment met HMRC 
requirements (for unlisted  shares)  relating to a members  control  over or connection with the 
company whose shares were to be purchased.
Yorsipp was not required  to (and nor could  it) warrant or guarantee that the Scheme 
complied with HMRC  rules  and guidance for SIPPs.  Instead, the duty on Yorsipp was simply 
to take reasonable steps to ensure it did.
By reference to the limited  due diligence  steps Yorsipp  was under a regulatory and industry  
requirement in 2007 to perform Yorsipp  submits  the evidence confirms  it discharged the 
duty owed to the complainant  and other investors in the Scheme.
The lawyers  say the evidence shows:
Ms M and the other investors  were receiving professional  advice from an IFA (Mr A 
at MPFM)  so it was reasonable for Yorsipp to assume that MPFM was advising Ms M 
on how the Scheme  was structured.  (I  have commented on the appropriateness of 
relying on such assumptions above.)
MPFM on behalf of the complaint obtained  specialist advice from a local law firm. (I 
have commented  on this point above.)
To document  how the Scheme was to operate Yorsipp entered into a Fiduciary 
Services Agreement with the corporate  vehicle it was intended  would act as 
purchaser of the development  land  Company 2.
A Declaration of Trust Document from December 2007 shows  Mr Cs services 
business holds  1,000 shares in Company 2 as nominee and trustee for Yorsipp 
(Trustee) Limited  (on behalf  of its members).
Yorsipp satisfied itself Mr C was a qualified Cypriot lawyer  by obtaining a copy  of his 
practising certificate.
Yorsipp obtained  a copy of the certificate  of incorporation  of Company 2.
Yorsipp obtained  copies of Mr Cs appointment certificates as director/company 
secretary of Company 2
Yorsipp obtained  a copy of the Company  2 shareholding certificate.    
The lawyers  say the above  show that reasonable steps were  taken.
were those steps sufficient?
Yorsipp says it was under a duty to check that the investment was permitted  under  its rules 
and HMRCs rules.  This could be described a checking  that the investment could be held in 
the SIPP  that it was SIPPable as in the Berkeley Burke case above.  
Ref: DRN239220119Yorsipp does not dispute that COBS 2.1.1 requires (regulated) firms to act to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally  in accordance with the best interests of its client and that Principles  
2 and 6 require a firm to conduct its business  with due skill, care and diligence  and to treat 
customers fairly.  It says this does not impose  general free ranging duties on firms and the 
obligations must be considered in the context of the service  a firm has agreed to provide. 
And that it satisfied the scope of its duties  by complying with the express  instructions it has 
been given (and I have  dealt with that point above).
For the avoidance of doubt, I do not say Yorsipp was required to guarantee compliance  with 
HMRCs requirements.   It was required to take reasonable  steps to ensure compliance.   
When taking those  steps Yorsipp would need to consider the investment in a reasonable 
level of detail and form a reasonable understanding of it.  During that process if it noticed 
anything that gave it cause for concern it ought  reasonably to act on those concerns.  
This issue is perhaps what sort of things should Yorsipp as a SIPP  operator  in 2008 have 
had concerns about?  
I explained above that I consider Yorsipp was, as SIPP operator, required to meet  its 
regulatory obligations by identifying (and preventing) instances of potential consumer 
detriment.  And that good industry  practice was for SIPP operators to make enquiries into 
matters affecting title, HMRC compliance, money  laundering  and overt  criminal activity.   That  
remains my view.
Its clear Yorsipp was concerned about  satisfying HMRC requirements in relation to 
residential property  and did make some  checks on that issue.  And in relation to Mr C and 
Company 2.  But it does  not seem to have  ensured  that the basics  were  in place when 
making its checks for compliance  with HMRCs requirements.  
While trying to ensure that the company it was to invest in complied with HMRC 
requirements for a company investing in residential property,  Yorsipp failed  to heed the point 
that there  was no structure in place for the acquisition  of the land and the development of the 
residential property.   Yorsipp does not seem to have  checked that it was investing in a 
company that owned the land that was to be developed.  Or in a company that had the 
resources to acquire  the land and develop it.  Or  one that was a participant  in a clearly  set 
out, well defined and plausible  plan to acquire the resources  and clear  title to the land and 
develop it for the residential use it was concerned about.  
In the notes to Mr C, sent to him in October  2007,  Yorsipp said:
I understand  from Mr A that there will be no Information  Memorandum produced.  However I 
will need  to see some  form of document to show the intentions  of the company.
It is not clear  Yorsipp obtained  such a document.  It has not produced it during this dispute.   
Yorsipp has said that the Fiduciary Services Agreement documented how the Scheme was 
to operate.   But that is not the case.   The Agreement does not expressly refer to the 
Scheme.  It does not mention the property  to be developed.  It does not even mention that 
there is any intention to develop any property or build any apartments.   
So apart from the point  that it might post-date the payment out of Ms Ms SIPP  (though that 
does not seem likely) it is not possible to work  out anything about  the Scheme from the 
Ref: DRN239220120Fiduciary Services Agreement or the Declaration  of Trust relating to the shares in Company 
2.  
Nothing has been produced in this dispute  that sets out any agreed mechanism or process 
to show what interest  Ms M had in Company 2 or the shares in it that were held for Yorsipp.   
There is nothing to show how those  shares were  supposed to correspond  to an interest  in 
the specific Cypriot property investment Scheme the investment was supposed  to relate  to  
despite the following comment made  in the notes to Mr C:
From each of the members  [sic] investing in the company we will require  an instruction  letter 
to invest  in the property along with confirmation  of the level of investment.
So in Ms Ms case its not clear what share  of the Scheme she was supposed to be buying 
or what level of interest she was supposed to have  in the shares. SIPP investors  were  not 
buying apartments, or at least not at that time, and investors were  not buying  clearly defined 
units in a unitised arrangement. It was not and still is not clear what an investor was buying  
when apparently investing in the Scheme.  
There was no clearly  understood  process  or mechanism  in place for any investment  in 
Company 2 to turn into an investment in a specific parcel of land to be developed into 
apartments.  That was and remains unclear and not understood  by Yorsipp.  And  so as 
recently as mid-2019  its newly appointed  lawyers  in Cyprus had apparently  spoken  to Mr C 
and been told that the money received from Yorsipp had been used to purchase multiple 
properties in Cyprus and that different holding companies were  set up to purchase those 
properties.  But that is not the investment Scheme Ms M gave  instructions  to invest  in.  And  
it is not the Scheme  Yorsipp  says it thought it was investing in.  But without a clear, 
documented structure Yorsipp could not really know what was going to happen  to the money 
it was paying over.  It could not have  a reasonable understanding of the rights and 
obligations of the parties  involved in the Scheme  and in particular what it was obtaining  for 
Ms M in return for the payment.
From the checks made on the Scheme by Yorsipp  it ought to have realised it was not clear 
how Company 2 was to acquire and develop the land - how much it was expected  to cost 
and how was it to be financed. Did it look like Company 2 had the resources to acquire  and 
build the proposed apartments on it?   Who  was selling the property to Company 2?  Was it 
a transaction at an appropriate value? Was it a bona  fide arms length transaction  involving 
seemingly reliable parties? 
Yorsipp should  have realised it had no understanding of how the investment  was to work as 
a scheme.  And I do not here refer to its prospects as profitable investment. It was not 
Yorsipps role to consider  its suitability as an investment for the member.   But when it was 
checking it for HMRC  rules compliance it could  and should have formed a view about 
whether it was a coherent scheme and consequently whether it was something  it could 
reasonably pay its members money into. 
It remains my view that Yorsipp paid money  out of Ms Ms SIPP before it had fulfilled the 
duties it says it was under.  At  the time the payment was made Yorsipp did not know that the 
payment out was made in circumstances  that would satisfy HMRC requirements.  I accept it 
had made  checks on Mr C and asked about  the investment.  But it remains  the case that it 
had not got answers that would have enabled  it to understand the Scheme  and indeed the 
answers it got gave  the impression that answers  were being made up as things went along.  
In saying that I do not mean in the sense of a fiction being created.   Rather in the sense that 
Ref: DRN239220121the details of the structure just had not been  thought  through  yet.  Yorsipp should not have 
invested in the Scheme  in the circumstances and it was not fair and reasonable to do so.
I say this because  the lack of a clear and settled structure was not just a technicality - it 
meant the security of the investment was unclear.  
One of Yorsipps points is that it acted reasonably because  the payment was made  to a law 
firm on which satisfactory  checks had been made and with whom it had a Fiduciary  Services  
Agreement.  On the latter point the Fiduciary Services Agreement was with Mr Cs services 
business rather than his law firm.  Yorsipps  answer  to that point  is that the situation would 
be no different if the agreement had been  with the law firm.  This argument  does not 
however answer  the point that it was premature to pay over money to anyone until Yorsipp 
was reasonably satisfied that all was in order and that it was safe to pay out its members  
money. And in this context, I say safe in the sense that it was reasonably satisfied on points 
such as the sort of points mentioned in the Berkeley  Burke case I referred  to above:
that the investment was SIPPable, 
was not subject to any imminent change that would change  its SIPPable status, 
there were no doubts about the integrity  of the investment or the existence of the 
underlying assets,
the investment  seemed solvent.
Yorsipp should  not have  paid over any money until it was reasonably sure it was safe to do 
so and that it was acquiring for Ms M something  appropriate in return  for that payment.  It 
could not reasonably have come to that conclusion when it made the payment in Ms Ms 
case.  Or at any time since as its unclear that the Scheme has ever been formalised and put 
on a footing that a SIPP operator could have reasonable confidence in.
And for the avoidance of doubt I repeat there  was no obligation  on Yorsipp to guarantee or 
underwrite the success of an investment.  A  scheme could work as a scheme and turn out to 
be a poor investment.  It  might not perform well.  But in this case  Yorsipp should have 
realised from its checks that the Scheme  itself was not something it should  have paid its 
members money into. And that is not a matter  of investment performance.
In all the circumstances it is my view that if Yorsipp  had refused to make the investment into 
the Scheme Ms M would not have invested in it.  
the exclusion of liability  in the trust deed
Yorsipp says the Trust Deed includes an exclusion of liability for the Scheme Trustee and 
the Scheme Administrator except for deliberate bad faith.  It says it has not been  guilty  of 
bad faith.  It says Ms M agreed to the exclusion which  is of a type that is common  in the 
SIPP industry.  And therefore, the exclusion should apply.
In my provisional decision I said it is not fair and reasonable for a regulated firm to seek to 
rely on such an exclusion clause.  That remains my view.
In responding  to my provisional decision Yorsipp  said it does not dispute that COBS 2.1.R 
requires it to act honestly,  fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
clients.
COBS 2.1.2 R includes the following rule that has been in place since November 2007:
Ref: DRN239220122A firm must not, in any communication  relating  to designated investment business seek to:
(1)exclude or restrict; or
(2) rely on any exclusion or restriction of;
any duty or liability it may have to a client under the regulatory system. 
Designated investment  business includes operating  a personal pension  scheme and the 
regulatory system includes the Principles and the rules such  as the COBS rules.
It is my view that either as a result of the direct application of the rule or the underlying 
Principles including  the requirement  to treat customers  fairly it is not fair and reasonable for 
Yorsipp to rely on the exclusion clause in the Trust  Deed  in this complaint.
the involvement of Mr A and Mr Cs law firm (2)
Other parties were involved in this matter  such  as Mr A as the adviser  and/or operator  of the 
Scheme, and Mr C and/or his law firm.  It may be the case  that Mr A gave unsuitable advice 
or that others have acted wrongly towards Ms M in some way, but Yorsipp had its own 
distinct set of duties  when considering whether or not to make the investment Ms M had 
directed it to make.
I am satisfied that Yorsipp  failed to adopt good  practice and comply with the regulatory  
obligations on it at the time when it made the payment out of Ms Ms SIPP  in respect  of the 
investment in the Scheme.  It failed to take reasonable steps to ensure it had a reasonable 
understanding of the Scheme and ensure it was a reasonably safe and secure investment in 
which to pay its members  money  and it failed  to acquire something appropriate in return  for 
the payment it made. 
I am satisfied that if Yorsipp had acted appropriately it would not have made  the payment out 
of the SIPP  to invest in the Scheme for Ms M and she would not otherwise have invested  in 
it. I consider  it appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Yorsipp to pay the full award for 
the remaining  financial loss suffered  through  making  the investment, as it would not have 
gone ahead  but for its failings.  If it wishes, Yorsipp can have the option to take an 
assignment of any rights  of action  Ms M has against third parties before compensation is 
paid. Compensation may be contingent  upon  Ms Ms acceptance of this term of settlement  
subject to the comments I make below  about maximum awards. 
Some clients of Mr A/MPFM who invested  in the Scheme  were paid partial compensation by 
Mr B on behalf of MPFM.  As I understand it, Ms M was paid such  compensation and if she 
was it should be taken into account in calculating fair compensation.
how to put things right  fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider my aim should be to put Ms M as 
close as possible to the position  she would  probably now be in had Yorsipp acted 
appropriately.
In my provisional decision I said:
The normal approach  is to compare Ms Ms present position with the position she would  
have been in but for the wrong we are trying to put right.  It is not clear  what  Ms M would have 
done if she had not invested in the scheme.  The investment was in her pension so she would 
have made  an investment of some type.  And the investment was, on the face of it, relatively 
Ref: DRN239220123high risk for the reasons  I gave  above,  although The Proposal does  suggest the scheme 
would be suitable  for an investor  who wanted to invest  on a cautious/balanced  basis.   
It is difficult to know what alternative  investment  Ms M would have made but it seems 
reasonable to say it would also have  involved some risk rather than none or even low risk.  I 
therefore presently think the benchmark proposed by the investigator - FTSE  UK Private  
Investors Income total return index   is a reasonable benchmark in the circumstances.  
That remains my view.   I think Ms M would have  invested the money invested in the Scheme 
differently.  Its not possible to say precisely  what she would have done differently.  But Im 
satisfied what Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
In my provisional decision I said Ms M should be paid compensation on the basis of 
comparing her current position with a benchmark.  Yorsipp thinks  a deduction should be 
made from the redress to reflect the SIPP fees Ms M would have paid in any event.  
Our published policy in this area is:
Adjusting the benchmark return  for charges  would also complicate the calculation for you. 
This complexity isnt justified because the benchmark return isnt the actual figure  the 
customer would have got before charges, but a broad measure of potential  loss. So, we 
generally consider it fair to use the benchmark return as a measure of what  the customer  
would have got net of charges.
In my view it is fair and reasonable to apply that normal policy  in this complaint.  I do not 
therefore make any provision for the further  deduction of SIPP  fees from the fair 
compensation set out below.
what should  Yorsipp do?
To compensate Ms M fairly, Yorsipp must:
Compare the performance of Ms M's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Yorsipp should also pay interest  as set out below.
If there is a loss Yorsipp  should pay into Ms Ms pension  to increase its value by the 
total amount of compensation and any interest.  The  amount paid should allow for the 
effect of any charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection  or allowance.
If Yorsipp is unable to pay the total amount into Ms Ms pension, it should  pay that 
amount direct to her.  But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Ms Ms actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her retirement  age. For example, if Ms M is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer at the selected retirement  age, the reduction would  equal  the current  
Ref: DRN239220124basic rate of tax.  However, if Ms M would have been able to take a tax free lump  
sum, the reduction  should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay to Ms M £300 for the trouble  and upset caused to Ms M by Yorsipps error.
In return Ms M should (subject to the comments I make below about  maximum 
awards):
oassign her rights against third parties (as discussed above) if Yorsipp so 
requests 
ogive the assignment or undertaking in respect  of the Scheme as mentioned 
below.
Yorsipp will have to meet any costs  of drawing up any assignment and/or 
undertaking.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
The 
Schemestill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision to date 
of settlement  (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 
28 days  of 
Yorsipps being  
notified of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
If at the end date the investment is illiquid  (meaning it could not be readily  sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to work  out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed  to be zero. This is provided Ms M agrees to Yorsipp taking  
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Yorsipp to take ownership, 
then it may request  an undertaking  from Ms M that she repays to Yorsipp  any amount she 
may receive  from the investment in future. This is subject to a point I make below about 
maximum awards.
When calculating the actual value credit should be given for any compensation received 
from or on behalf of MPFM
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ref: DRN239220125I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Ms M wanted capital  growth and was willing  to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
in the circumstances.
my final decision
I uphold Ms Ms complaint against  Yorsipp Limited.  I direct it to pay fair compensations as 
set out above.    Yorsipp  Limited should provide  details of its calculation to Ms M in a clear, 
simple format.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint.   I consider that fair compensation should  
be calculated as set out above.   My decision is Yorsipp Limited should pay the amount 
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 plus interest.
If the loss does not exceed £150,000, or if Yorsipp  Limited accepts the recommendation to 
pay the full loss as calculated  above, Yorsipp should have the option of taking the 
assignments and or undertaking  referred to above.   If the loss exceeds £150,000 and 
Yorsipp does not accept the recommendation to pay the full amount, any 
assignment/undertaking should allow Ms M to retain all rights to the difference  between 
£150,000 and the full loss as calculated above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of the fair compensation 
exceeds £150,000 I recommend that Yorsipp pay Ms M the balance plus any interest on the 
balance as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2392201