K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Ulster Bank Limited  (Ulster Bank) did not implement a chargeback.
background
Mr W bought a car and part exchanged his old car against the purchase.  The new car was in 
Northampton, so Mr W used a car transportation  business (the merchant)  to transport the 
old car from Northern Ireland to Northampton and bring the new car back. Mr W had 
arranged for the merchant  to deliver  the new car to his mechanics premises.
Unfortunately Mr W had a very poor experience with the merchant. They  didnt ship the old 
car on the day they were supposed to and this caused Mr W a lot of problems when it came 
to doing the part exchange  in Northampton.  Mr W says he received very poor customer  
service during the process. Once  the part exchange  had taken  place, Mr Ws new car was 
brought to the merchants yard in Northern Ireland, several days  later than he had originally 
expected. At that point, the merchant demanded payment in full of £720. Mr W reluctantly 
paid in full, after which he says the merchant  refused to deliver  the car to the mechanic. In 
the end, Mr W had to pay another contractor to transport it to the mechanics premises  as 
the car was not roadworthy.
Mr W contacted  Ulster Bank  and asked them to do a chargeback which  they agreed to 
initially, subject to later review. The merchant contested it and ultimately the chargeback  was 
unsuccessful. Mr W is unhappy with the situation and the way it has been handled by Ulster 
Bank. He wants reimbursement of the £720 which he paid to the merchant and £1,000  as 
compensation for the stress and anxiety caused to him over the way his complaint  was 
handled by the bank.
Our adjudicator thought that Ulster  Bank had acted fairly and attempted  the chargeback 
request in good faith. Mr W wasnt happy  with that view and asked for the case  to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback schemes  are voluntary codes which banks can sign up to. If there is a good 
reason to do a chargeback, I would expect  a bank to try. But the bank doesnt  have  to do it. 
In cases where the bank  attempts a chargeback, there is no guarantee that the money  will 
be recovered. Each case depends on the individual circumstances  and the decision is based 
on the card scheme  rules. I need to decide  whether Ulster Bank  acted fairly  and reasonably 
in the circumstances of Mr Ws case.
Ulster Bank acted upon Mr Ws initial request by considering the dispute as a chargeback.  
They then gave Mr W a temporary  refund. I think that was a reasonable approach  and its 
what I would  expect  a bank to do in these  circumstances.  The merchant was then given the 
opportunity to respond and provide evidence, which is in line with the usual procedure. 
Here, the merchant chose  to defend  the chargeback. The merchant provided copies of the 
invoice for £720  and proof of delivery forms. Mr W was then given the opportunity to 
respond, which he did. But despite Mr Ws response,  Ulster Bank  didnt think they had 
Ref: DRN21031392enough evidence  to take any further  steps.  As far as they were concerned the chargeback 
procedure had been exhausted  and they could not conclude it in Mr Ws favour.
Mr W has disputed  the validity of the invoice produced by the merchant during the process. 
He also feels strongly  that the merchant did not fulfil the terms of its contract with him. I 
sympathise with Mr Ws situation and I can see that it has caused him a great deal of 
distress. But this service  doesnt have the power  to look at the actions of the merchant or 
decide the outcome of a dispute between Mr W and the merchant. I can only look at the 
actions of Ulster Bank and, given what I have said above about chargebacks in general,  Im 
satisfied they followed  the process correctly even if this didnt have the outcome that Mr W 
wanted.
Ulster Banks role was not to determine the dispute between Mr W and the merchant. And I 
wouldnt expect them to have gone into all the ins and outs of the evidence  provided by the 
parties. What they were  faced with was a scenario where the customer  had complained he 
had not received the services he paid for. The merchant provided an invoice  and proof of 
delivery forms. Notwithstanding Mr Ws comments about the invoice, he doesnt dispute  that 
his old car was shipped to Northampton and his new car was brought  back to Northern 
Ireland. So the contract had been performed  by the merchant to some extent. 
The main  issue is over the onward delivery  of the car by the merchant to the mechanic, 
which didnt happen.  I havent seen any information documenting the price which had been 
agreed between  Mr W and the merchant for delivery  to the mechanic and in general the 
terms of the contract  between the parties  are not clear. Mr W says he paid the £720 
reluctantly and I have  no reason to doubt this. But without more information to show  that 
there was a departure  from the previously agreed  contractual terms, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Ulster Bank to reach the conclusion they did. And Mr W would have had to 
pay something to the merchant for the shipping of the old car to Northampton  and the new 
car to Northern Ireland, even though it wasnt to his chosen address. 
I realise this will be disappointing  to Mr W. He has clearly  had a very negative experience 
with the merchant. But unfortunately thats not something I can look at. As to the way Ulster 
Bank have  handled things, I havent  seen anything to suggest that they didnt consider his 
case properly. Ultimately,  they had to follow  the chargeback process  here and I think  they 
acted fairly  in attempting the process  and giving Mr W a temporary  refund.  But ultimately the 
information provided to them by both parties  did not show that the services hadnt been 
provided. They may not have been provided exactly as agreed, but the evidence was 
enough for Ulster Bank  to be satisfied that there were no grounds on which  to refund Mr W 
under the chargeback scheme. 
I dont think there were any other avenues open  to Ulster Bank here and so I shant be 
asking them to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I do not uphold  this complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
22 February 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN21031393
Ref: DRN2103139