K822xComplaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the response  of Clydesdale Financial Service  Limited  (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance), following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
Background 
Mrs W was contacted by a company, Ill refer to it as S, which supplied and installed solar  
panel systems. Following  a meeting,  Mrs W agreed to enter  into a contract with S for it to 
supply and install a solar panel  system costing £9,000. To fund this Mrs W also agreed to 
enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner Finance (BPF).
Mrs W made a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA. She said that S had told her that 
the solar panels  would be self-funded and that the monthly loan repayments  would  be more 
than off-set  by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income  and any savings shed make by using the 
electricity generated  by her solar panels  rather than buying it from her energy provider. But 
that hadnt happened. Instead, her monthly loan repayments had been much higher  than 
any income and savings shed received. Mrs W also raised  some  concerns about the 
guarantee that had been provided with the solar panel system as S had gone  into 
administration and was no longer  trading.
In its final response letter,  BPF agreed that the benefits of the solar panel system  had been 
misrepresented to Mrs W. To put things right it had calculated  the potential  savings and 
income to Mrs W from the solar panels  over the 10 year term of the loan. It had then 
restructured the loan to ensure that Mrs W would pay no more than this. This would mean  
that the solar  panel system  would be cost-neutral, and Mrs W wont  experience  any financial 
loss. 
As Mrs W had paid off her loan early,  BPFs  calculation meant  that she had paid less than 
the total benefits she would receive and therefore, she wasnt due any refund. Unhappy  with 
this response,  Mrs W referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. She was satisfied that the offer put 
forward by BPF was fair. She also explained  BPF would consider any claims under the 
warranty.
Mrs W didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W says she was cold-called by S and during  a subsequent sales  meeting at her home 
told that the solar  panels would be entirely  self-financing. As neither  BPF nor Mrs W dispute  
that the benefits of the solar panel  system were misrepresented this decision will deal with 
what I consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
Ref: DRN23403602one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking into account  the particular circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable  to put Mrs W into the position she 
would have been in if there had been  no misrepresentation. Mrs W has said that if the 
benefits of the solar  panel hadnt been  misrepresented to her she would not have entered  
into the contract with S and the subsequent  fixed sum loan agreement with BPF. However, 
here I dont  think it would be fair or proportionate to require the removal  of the solar panel 
system from her home. Rather, I think the fair outcome  would be to put Mrs W in a position 
where the solar  panel system is self-funding  over the original term of the loan. By allowing 
Mrs W to keep the panels, Im satisfied  that she will likely benefit  from lower electricity bills 
and FIT payments  going forward.
Ive carefully considered  the methodology BPF has submitted to this service to calculate the 
total benefits of the solar panel  system.  This methodology is based on the actual  
performance and estimated future  performance of Mrs Ws solar panel system.
BPF has set out that when calculating the estimated future  performance  of Mrs Ws solar 
panel system, it will use a number of assumptions. These include a self-consumption rate of 
37%. This is the percentage of energy generated by Mrs Ws solar panels that she is 
expected to use rather than buying it from her energy provider.  
The Government had previously used a rate of 50% when it set the percentage that should 
be used by energy  providers  when  calculating the FIT income.  Whereas the Energy Savings 
Trust website had previously set out different  scenarios, based on consumer occupancy 
habits, rather than a specific percentage.
Its clear that self-consumption is impacted by the period of time that someone  is in their 
home and able to use, or self-consume, the electricity that their solar  panels  are generating 
and therefore,  determining an exact figure over the term of the loan is difficult.  My role is to 
determine fair compensation and arrive at an outcome  that is fair and reasonable overall. 
And in cases of this nature that isnt an exact  science.
Taking the above into account Im satisfied  that using a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair 
and reasonable in this case.  Im of the view that it takes into account  all the evidence 
discussed above as well as changing consumer occupancy  habits  over the term of the loan.  
Once the loan has been repaid,  as it has in this case, Im satisfied that it is highly likely that 
Mrs W will continue to benefit from her solar  panels as a result of a reduction in her 
electricity bills because of the electricity generated by the panels  as well as the FIT 
payments.
Ive also considered the other assumptions used by BPF, including  electricity price  inflation, 
the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI).  Im of the view that these 
appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the actual  
average RPI for the last four years doesnt seem  to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions  that have been used by BPF provide a fair and 
reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
When BPF calculated the benefits that Mrs W would receive over the original term of the 
loan it worked out that she had paid less than the total benefits that she would  receive. And 
on that basis, it said her solar panel system  would, in effect,  be self-financing.
Ref: DRN23403603As Ive explained above,  Im satisfied that the methodology used by BPF to calculate 
compensation is fair and reasonable. 
I understand that a member of Mrs Ws family, when it was clear  that the solar  panel system 
wasnt self-funding, entered into a separate personal loan at a lower rate of interest, and 
paid off the BPF loan.
Ive considered whether this should  be taken into account when deciding fair compensation. 
Im not satisfied that it should. My understanding is that the loan wasnt  taken  out in Mrs Ws 
name and she hasnt contributed to the required monthly repayments.  Therefore, Mrs W has 
no liability  for the loan so Im not persuaded that BPF should increase its offer of 
compensation.
Mrs W has raised concerns about the warranty she was provided with by S as it is no longer 
trading.
BPF has agreed that as long as Mrs W can provide it with a copy  of her warranty,  and it can 
be evidenced that it formed part of the initial contract,  it will honour  the warranty.  This 
doesnt guarantee the outcome of any future claim but, if Mrs W experiences  any system 
issues within the original  warrantee period, shed be entitled to raise a claim under the 
warranty and BPF will consider it under the terms of the warranty.
Whilst I accept  it will come as a disappointment to Mrs W, I wont be asking BPF to take any 
further steps, than its current offer, to resolve  this complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mrs Ws complaint should  be upheld.  In full and final settlement of it, 
I require Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  to:
allow Mrs W to keep the solar  panels,
estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr W from the solar panels over the 10 
year term of the loan and rework  it so that she pays no more than this. Where 
possible, it should use Mrs Ws electricity  bills and FIT statements to do this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before  26  April 2020.
 
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2340360