K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about the service  provided  by Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory  
Services Limited.
Mr and Mrs M complain  that theyve been  charged fees by Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory 
Services Limited for reviews which never took place. Theyre  also unhappy  that inaccurate 
information was provided following their most recent review.
Mr and Mrs M originally  brought  the complaint to our service themselves but later became 
represented by their son-in-law. He has made a number of submissions  on their behalf.  
However, for ease  of reference, Ill be referring  to the submissions made  by their son-in-law 
as if they were made by Mr and Mrs M themselves.
Background
Mr and Mrs M each  opened several  Portfolio  Management Service  (PMS)  accounts  with 
Hargreaves Lansdown in 2005. In December  2017 they had an annual  review of the 
accounts with a Hargreaves Lansdown advisor.  Following this meeting, the advisor  sent a 
suitability review letter explaining what had been  discussed and advised.
Having received the letter, Mr and Mrs M chose to close their PMS accounts.  They  then 
raised a complaint about the service provided.  They  said the letter  referred to regular 
reviews of their financial situation  since 2005, but they said they had never  been  contacted  
about having a review.  Because  of this, Mr and Mrs M didnt feel it was fair for them to incur  
any charges or fees associated with the reviews. They were also unhappy that the letter 
contained several errors and inaccuracies.
Mr and Mrs M also raised concerns around  the performance of their investments as well as 
the high concentration of UK assets within the proposed investment portfolio.
Hargreaves Lansdown responded by saying it had offered reviews on several occasions, but 
that Mr and Mrs M hadnt always wanted  a review. It explained that the cost of ongoing 
advice had been outlined and agreed  to when they opened their accounts and so it felt the 
ongoing cost of the advice  was justified. Hargreaves Lansdown did however agree to waive 
the initial advisor charge for the most recent  advice on the new funds  Mr and Mrs M were  
looking to invest.  This was because they decided not to proceed  with the advice given.
Hargreaves Lansdown added  that it wasnt sure what information  contained  in the letter Mr 
and Mrs M felt was incorrect, but it noted  that a questionnaire had been updated during the 
meeting and that the letter did ask them to let it know  if there  were  any inaccuracies or 
omissions.
Hargreaves Lansdown also addressed Mr and Mrs Ms concerns around performance and 
the make-up of their portfolio.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with Hargreaves Lansdowns response as they felt it hadnt 
justified the fees associated  with ongoing advice and it hadnt addressed the inaccuracies  
included in the advisors letter. They also raised  several complaint points about  the way in 
which Hargreaves Lansdown  had dealt  with their complaint. 
Hargreaves Lansdown apologised for the errors  in handling the complaint but explained  it 
still didnt think it needed to do anything further.
Ref: DRN23014812An investigator at our service considered Mr and Mrs Ms complaint but didnt uphold  it. He 
explained that we could  only look at the charges and fees incurred within  the last six years, 
which Mr and Mrs M accepted. And having done  so, he didnt think Mr and Mrs M were 
entitled to any refund.  He said although reviews  didnt take place every year, he was 
satisfied they were offered to Mr and Mrs M. But in any case,  the annual  charge covered the 
cost of a review and so it made no difference whether  a review took place or not when 
looking at the overall  cost of the accounts  to Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M provided our service with a clarification of the points  they felt were inaccurate 
about the advisors letter and so our investigator was able to address these. Although  he 
agreed with some of the points Mr and Mrs M made, he didnt think these alone  were 
enough for him to uphold the complaint.
Our investigator also agreed that there had been  administrative errors involved in the 
handling of the complaint, but he felt Hargreaves Lansdowns apology  was enough to 
acknowledge these.  
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree. They dispute  that reviews took place  or were offered and so they 
say a fee shouldnt apply  where a review  didnt take place. As such, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive very carefully considered the detailed submissions that Mr and Mrs M have  provided.  I 
can confirm that Ive read and considered their submissions in their entirety. However,  the 
purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  point raised. The purpose of my decision is to 
set out my conclusions and reasons  for reaching  them. 
charges and fees
I understand that Mr and Mrs M believe theyve unfairly incurred charges and fees 
associated with reviews  which  never  took place. Before looking at whether reviews  took 
place, I think it would  be helpful to give an explanation as to what charges and fees 
Hargreaves Lansdown have applied to their accounts. 
As our investigator explained, Im only able to consider any charges and fees which were 
applied after February 2012. Ive considered the relevant terms and conditions which applied 
to Mr and Mrs Ms accounts between 2012 until 2018. Mr and Mrs M were provided  with the 
following two documents each  year:
PMS  Terms and Conditions   which applied to the administration of their PMS 
accounts
Financial Advice Key Facts   which applied to the advisory  services  they received
Ref: DRN23014813Hargreaves Lansdown explained in these documents that an annual portfolio management 
fund charge would  apply  for the administration of their PMS accounts. This would be based 
on the total value of the funds in Mr and Mrs Ms account and the charge would be tiered  
within bands (0.45%  per annum on the first £250,000 of funds within  each account, 0.25% 
p.a. on the value of funds between £250,000 and £1,000.000, and 0.1% p.a. on the value of 
funds between £1,000,000 and £2,000,000, and no charge on the value of funds over 
£2,000,000). 
It was also explained  that an annual ongoing advisor charge of 0.365% (plus VAT) of the 
portfolio value would apply. I understand  that Mr and Mrs M feel strongly that this charge 
shouldnt apply if they havent  received an annual review. However,  I dont agree. 
Hargreaves Lansdown says this charge isnt limited to providing Mr and Mrs M with an 
annual review but also provides them with access to an advisor all year round so they are 
able to have their financial objectives and attitude to risk reassessed,  receive  an overview of 
the performance and valuation  of their portfolios, as well as receive frequent updates on 
global markets and personal finance issues.
Its also important to point  out that this service is a requirement of having a PMS  account 
and that this was explained in several  of the key facts documents sent to Mr and Mrs M. This 
is because the PMS  account is a discretionary management service and as such, 
Hargreaves Lansdown has a regulatory responsibility to ensure the ongoing suitability of the 
investments. So without this on-going advisor service,  it wouldnt be possible for Mr and Mrs 
M to invest on a discretionary basis. Therefore, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M were made 
aware that they were paying for this service  and how to contact Hargreaves Lansdown if 
they wanted, so it wouldnt  be fair for Hargreaves Lansdown to refund  the charge simply 
because they chose not to utilise the full service.  
Hargreaves Lansdown also made it clear that other  charges and fees may apply. This 
included initial advisor charges, typically  charged  at 1% of the amount invested.  I can see 
from Mr and Mrs Ms statements that these charges were applied when new monies were 
added to their accounts, for example in 2015  as a result of a top up to Mr Ms PMS ISA 
account.
Other charges have applied since 2012,  including PMS discretionary charges which applied 
specifically to any third-party satellite holdings in the portfolios. However, Im satisfied  that 
the terms and conditions and key facts  documents provided to Mr and Mrs M over the years 
made them aware that these other  charges could apply.
So having  reviewed all the charges and fees that have been applied  to Mr and Mrs Ms 
accounts since 2012, Im satisfied that all have been applied fairly and in-line with the terms 
and conditions and key facts documents provided.
reviews
Ive explained  above that Hargreaves Lansdown can charge for the ongoing  advisor service 
irrespective of whether  Mr and Mrs M chooses  to have an annual  review. However, as Mr 
and Mrs M have disputed that reviews  were offered each year, I think it would be helpful  to 
clarify when  reviews did take place.
Ref: DRN23014814I can confirm that Ive seen evidence that the following annual reviews  took place:
Review by telephone on August 2006 
Review by questionnaire in July 2007
Review by home  visit in January 2010
Review by telephone in August 2011
Review by telephone in January 2016
Review by telephone in April 2017
The most recent review in December 2017
As I explained above, Hargreaves  Lansdown had a regulatory obligation  to ensure that Mr 
and Mrs Ms investments were  suitable. And by conducting these reviews it was able to 
ensure that it understood Mr and Mrs Ms financial  circumstances. Im also satisfied that 
where a review didnt  take place that year, one was either offered with no response or 
offered but declined  by Mr and Mrs M. 
When a review didnt  take place, Hargreaves  Lansdown met its regulatory obligations by 
making it clear that Mr and Mrs M needed  to let it know if their circumstances had changed. 
So in the absence of a review taking place, and Mr and Mrs M not making it aware of any 
changes to their circumstances, I think Hargreaves Lansdown was able to continue to 
ensure the suitability of the investments based on the last known information Mr and Mrs M 
had provided.
On a final note regarding the reviews,  I understand that Mr and Mrs M had raised concerns 
that in the most recent suitability review letter Hargreaves Lansdown  sent, they were asked 
to read the recommendations in line with the last recommendations made in 2005. And that 
this highlights that reviews hadnt taken place. However, I think there has been  some 
confusion as the letter says to read the report  in conjunction with Hargreaves Lansdowns 
original recommendations  as presented  in their financial  planning  report of October 2005 
and subsequent reviews.
other administrative issues
Mr and Mrs M have  raised several  concerns about  the service  Hargreaves Lansdown have  
provided them including how it handled  their complaint. Whilst I havent addressed every 
point raised, I have considered them all and I dont think it would be fair to make an award 
for compensation to Mr and Mrs M.
Having listened  to the recording  of the meeting Mr and Mrs M had with Hargreaves 
Lansdown in December 2017,  I'm satisfied  that the subsequent review letter sent was a fair 
reflection of the discussions which  took place. I understand that Mr and Mrs M disagree and 
have highlighted  several points which they interpret as being inaccurate. But ultimately, if Mr 
and Mrs M were unhappy with the service provided, they were entitled to end their business 
with Hargreaves Lansdown, which I understand they did soon after receiving the review 
letter. The letter also explained that Mr and Mrs M should contact Hargreaves Lansdown if 
there were any inaccuracies or omissions  the letter and so I think  its likely Hargreaves 
Lansdown would have addressed these had Mr and Mrs M wanted to continue to invest with 
it.
Ref: DRN23014815I also note that Hargreaves Lansdown waived the initial advisor charge for the advice given 
in the meeting, which Id expect it do as Mr and Mrs M decided not to invest the further  funds 
they were advised  on.
Whilst I acknowledge that there were  some errors of clerical nature in handling the 
complaint, Im pleased  to see that Hargreaves Lansdown apologised for these and that Mr 
and Mrs M didnt suffer any financial loss as a result of these. As such, I dont think  
Hargreaves Lansdown need to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 July 2020.
Ben Waites
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2301481