K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2006 on a 
credit card. Ms B says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ms B has said that she was led to believe that she wouldnt be approved for the credit 
card if she didnt  take PPI. Capital  Ones records  show that Ms B took out the credit  card 
via a postal application,  and Ive seen the application form she completed at that time. 
The form had a separate section relating to PPI, it asked her to tick a box and then sign if 
she wanted to take Optional Capital One payment  protection  insurance. Ms B didnt tick 
the box, but she did sign this part of the form. Because  the box had not been ticked, PPI 
was not set up at this time. Instead it was sold to Ms B a couple of weeks  later when she 
called Capital One to activate her new credit card.
Capital One hasnt been able to give us a recording of the phone  call, but it has shown 
us a copy of the script it says its call handlers  were  required  to follow at the time Ms B 
bought her PPI. I think the script makes it clear that the PPI is an optional product, and 
prompts the call handler to ask for the consumers  consent before  adding PPI onto the 
account. With my understanding of how Capital One generally sold PPI, I think  the script  
Ive seen is likely reflective of what would have been said to Ms B. And given that Ms B 
had already received her credit  card when Capital One sold her the PPI, I think it would 
have been clear to her that it wasnt a condition  of being approved  for the credit  card.   
So with all this in mind,  I think  Capital One made it clear that Ms B had a choice about 
taking the PPI, and I think she chose to take it knowing she didnt have to. 
I dont think Capital  One recommended the PPI to Ms B so it didnt have to check  if it 
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Ms B got the information she needed  to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And 
while I understand she was entitled  to some sick pay, the PPI would have paid out for 
longer than her full sick pay would have lasted. Ms B has also said her relatives  would 
have been able to help her out if needed, but that would depend  on their own 
circumstances at the time, so I dont think their help could be guaranteed. 
So it looks  like the PPI would have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN21350022Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But Capital One will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms B because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms B about  that. Because Capital One didnt tell Ms B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
What the business needs  to do
Capital One has to pay back to Ms B any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should  also pay back  to Ms B any extra  interest 
Ms B paid because of that.
Capital One should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Ms B the difference  
between what Ms B owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Ms B 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms B can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Ms B any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2135002