K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Monzo Bank Ltd removed money from his bank account without good  
reason. He wants Monzo to return his funds.
background
Mr H had a current account  with Monzo  and used the account  to trade in bitcoins.
On 14 June 2018, £2,000  was paid into Mr Hs account from Ms K. Following this transaction 
Ms K told her bank,  which I will refer to as bank B, that shed been the victim of a scam  and 
she asked it to retrieve the money  from Mr Hs account. 
Bank B contacted Monzo to recover Ms Ks money. And Monzo retrieved £1,285.38 from 
Mr Hs account which it sent back to bank B.
Mr H complained to Monzo.  He said Monzo had no right to take money  from his account. He 
said he hadnt done anything wrong  and the money in his account belonged to him. He says 
it was a legitimate  business transaction between him and Ms K via a broker,  who I will refer 
to as Mr W. Monzo said it hadnt done  anything wrong and had acted  in accordance  with the 
terms and conditions of the account.  And its legal  and regulatory obligations. So, it didnt 
return the money to Mr H. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr H brought his complaint to this service  where  one of our 
investigators looked at Mr Hs case. He said Monzo hadnt done anything  wrong  and had 
acted on information  it had received from another bank which  said Mr H wasnt entitled to the 
money paid into his account.  Mr H disagreed. He says Monzo  has stolen his money. As no 
agreement could be reached the matter  has come to me to decide. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 
November 2019.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Mr H says he is entitled to the money  paid into his account. He says it is a legitimate bitcoin 
transaction and he hasnt  done anything wrong. That may well be the case. And I appreciate  
that Mr H is upset. But for me to uphold his complaint  I have to think  Monzo has done  
something wrong when  it returned money in his account to Ms K. And in this case,  I dont 
think it has. Ill explain why.
Monzo was told by bank  B that its customer,  Mr H, had received a payment  he wasnt 
entitled to. Bank B had provided  an indemnity to Monzo - in effect agreeing to take the risk if 
that wasnt right. 
The practice of providing indemnities in situations  like this is well established and can 
facilitate the quick  return of money  to fraud  victims.  But this also means that money might be 
returned in other circumstances too - for example, where there  is simply a dispute between a 
payer and payee,  or the payee has changed  their mind about a purchase.  In this case  
though, bank B was told by its customer,  Ms K, that the payment was the result  of a scam,  
and when Monzo was told the same thing, in these circumstances,  I agree  that, Monzo had 
no real option but to return  the payment.
Ref: DRN27716532Mr H says the money from Ms K was sent out to another trader on the same day. And that 
the payment in his account was his personal funds.  So Monzo had no right to take it. But Im 
afraid I have some bad news  for Mr H and that Monzo were  following the Claytons  Rule 
commonly known as the first in first out rule when it removed the money. This says that each 
withdrawal is presumed  to be a return of all or part of the oldest deposit. The result is that 
the oldest deposit is withdrawn first, or the oldest debt is paid first.
When Ms Ks £2,000  came into Mr Hs account he already  had a balance of £1,271.13.  So 
when the £2,000 was transferred  out of the account only £728.87 was made up of the credit 
from Ms K. The remaining £1,271.31 was made  up of the existing balance.  Applying 
Claytons Rule, means that the money  that remained in Mr Hs account after the £2,000  
transfer, was made up of the fraudulent credit, for which Monzo received an indemnity - in 
other words it wasnt Mr Hs money. 
Mr H hasnt been able to provide any evidence that he is entitled  to the £2,000  paid into his 
account. And that he had any form of agreement to show Ms K agreed that her £2,000 
should be used  by Mr H to buy bitcoins. 
Mr H has provided screen shots which he says shows he was dealing with Mr W on behalf of 
Ms K. But the screen shots  make no reference to Ms K. And the information provided by 
Monzo and bank B shows the money  came directly from Ms Ks account.  And not Mr W. I 
also agree  with the investigator, that the evidence provided by Mr H doesnt  show  Ms K 
agreed that her £2,000 should be used by Mr H to trade in bitcoins. And that hes entitled to 
the money paid into his account. Because of that I cant  fairly conclude that Monzo should 
return it to Mr H.
I note that Monzo  returned £1,285.38 to bank B. And this included  £18.40  which was 
credited to Mr Hs account on 14 June  2018  after the payment from Ms K. Im not aware 
Monzo received  an indemnity regarding this amount.  So, based on the evidence  Ive seen so 
far, it would seem Mr H is entitled  to these funds. And Im currently  minded  to say Monzo 
should return this amount  to him.
I understand that Mr H is upset by Monzos  actions  and says Monzo should return all the 
money to him. In making that argument,  he says that the money  is rightfully his and was a 
legitimate business  transaction. Of course,  if Mr H is owed the money,  hes owed it by the 
original payer, in this case Ms K, and I am not aware  of any reason as to why he should not 
seek payment from her. The fact that he hasnt  leads to me to think that in this particular 
case, things are not quite as straightforward as Mr H suggests. 
In summary,  banks must  be able to talk to each other to protect their customers when  money 
has been sent to the wrong  account  or they believe fraud has taken place. And this is what  
happened here. The other bank told Monzo  a credit to Mr Hs account was fraudulent.  So, it 
returned the money to the other bank. 
Ive looked at the evidence which Monzo  relied on to return the money. Having done so, I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for Monzo to return the money  to its source  in this case  
Ms Ks account. I say this because in this case it doesnt appear that Monzo thought  there 
was a dispute, the information it had was simply  that Ms K had been a victim of fraud.  So, 
Im not going  to ask Monzo  to return the £1,271.31 to Mr H. However, for the reasons Ive 
already explained above, I intend  to direct  Monzo to return £18.40  to Mr H.
Ref: DRN27716533So subject to any further representations by Mr H or Monzo, my provisional was that I was 
minded to uphold  this complaint in part.
Mr H responded to my provisional decision.  In summary he said that:
although Ms K complained to the bank that a fraudulent transaction  had gone  
through this was all part of a large  complex scam against  him
he guarantees that Ms K was in on this scam the entire  time
hes no longer  able to contact Ms K or Mr W 
he is £2,000  out of pocket not Ms K or Mr W.
Monzo didnt respond to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not persuaded that I 
should change  my provisional  decision.
I have considered Mr Hs submissions. But I havent seen any evidence  to support what hes 
said. As I set out in my provisional decision,  I dont think it was unreasonable  for Monzo to 
return the money to its source   Ms  Ks account.  
I say this because  in this case  it doesnt  appear that Monzo thought there was a dispute,  the 
information it had was simply that Ms K had been  a victim  of fraud. So, Im not going to ask 
Monzo to return the £1,271.31 to Mr H. However, for the reasons Ive already explained  
above, I direct Monzo to return £18.40  to Mr H.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part. And I 
direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr H £18.40, which was credited  to Mr Hs account after 
Monzo had returned  the fraudulent funds.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2771653