K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide  Building Society  has failed to return to him funds he sent to 
its customers account as a result of a scam. 
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a
brief summary of key events here.  
In March 2019, Mr G was looking to purchase  a camera he saw advertised  online. The total 
cost of the camera was £1,000. The seller asked Mr G to make payment in two parts.  He 
made the first payment  of £500 by bank  transfer from his account  with bank C to the 
account details  provided by the seller. The beneficiary account was with Nationwide. 
Afterwards Mr G tried to contact the seller to confirm  receipt  of the first payment, but the 
seller didnt respond. It was at this point,  he realised hed likely fallen victim to a scam and 
contacted C to report the matter. He also reported the incident  to Action Fraud.
C notified Nationwide that Mr G had been the victim  of a scam  and that one of its account 
holders was in receipt of fraudulent funds. Nationwide upon receipt of notification  advised C 
more time was required for an investigation  to be completed. It carried  out a review  of the 
beneficiary account and spoke to its customer.  It told C that ultimately  it could not find its 
account holder  guilty of any misconduct  and accordingly it would not be returning the 
disputed funds. 
Unhappy with the outcome Mr G complained  to Nationwide  asking it to explain why it had 
decided not to return the disputed funds. He wanted  to know what evidence it had relied on 
to allow  its account  holder  access  to funds that he says rightfully  belong  to him. He was also 
unhappy with the lack of communication and length of time the investigation took. At this 
point C also shared with Nationwide  the evidence Mr G had supplied in support of his claim. 
Nationwide agreed  to re-review the matter. 
Ultimately Nationwide  concluded that whilst it sympathised with the situation Mr G found 
himself in it appears that both parties had become innocent  victims.  It stood by its initial  
decision to not return the disputed funds.   
Mr G referred  his complaint to our service and one of our investigators didnt think it should 
be upheld. In summary he thought Nationwide had treated Mr G fairly and didnt think 
Nationwide couldve done anything more to prevent Mr Gs loss.  
Mr G disagrees  and has asked for an ombudsman  to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
Ref: DRN24828292Firstly, I accept that Mr G has been  a victim of a cruel scam and that hes acted in good  faith 
throughout. I can see he has spent a lot of time and effort in bringing his complaint to our 
service and has provided detailed submissions in support of his complaint.  Ive already 
explained to Mr G I wont be setting  out my view on every piece of available  evidence, nor 
am I able to comment on every point  he has made.  My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by both sides and reach  what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable 
decision based on the facts of the case. The purpose of my decision is to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them. So, my findings focus on what  I consider to be 
the central issues. 
Im sorry  Mr G has been the victim of a scam. I appreciate how distressing the situation 
mustve been for him. I know he feels that both Nationwide  and our investigator have failed 
to thoroughly investigate the scam . And whilst I know  hell be disappointed I must be clear 
that it is not this services  remit to forensically investigate allegations of fraud nor do we have 
the power to carry out a criminal investigation  those are matters  for the police and better  
dealt with by a court. Its not something  that I intend  to determine here. My role is limited to 
deciding whether; 
-Nationwide has treated Mr G fairly  and reasonably in reaching its decision to not 
return the funds;  and 
-whether I can fairly and reasonably  say any of Nationwides acts or omissions led to 
Mr Gs loss.  
Another part of Mr Gs complaint centres  around lack of disclosure  and Nationwides failure  
to respond to questions  he has about  its investigation, the beneficiary account  holder and 
the account. I know he remains dissatisfied with its response and would like a more detailed  
explanation. I recognise that Mr G is also frustrated that hes not been able to see the same 
information I have,  as he wants to reassure himself  that Nationwide (and this service)  have  
considered his complaint appropriately. However,  Nationwide has explained  why it couldnt 
share third party information with Mr G and this service is also unable to share  that 
information with him for the same  reasons. I realise this means what Im saying might not 
feel particularly satisfactory to Mr G, because Ive seen and relied  on information that Im 
simply unable to share. But I hope having  had the opportunity to speak to me and ask 
questions, has assured  him that Ive read and carefully considered  everything  provided by 
both him and Nationwide in its entirety.  
has Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably?
Its clear from what Mr G has told us and Nationwide, he feels  strongly about his complaint.  I 
appreciate that hes upset  and feels that its unfair Nationwide has not returned  his funds. I 
can also understand that this was no doubt stressful  for him especially as he hasnt been 
keeping well. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that Nationwide  has 
done something wrong. And in this case,  I dont  think it has. Ill explain  why.
In the circumstances of this complaint,  Im satisfied there was nothing in the account opening 
or account activity  that reasonably ought  to have  alerted Nationwide  to the possibility of 
fraud, prior to Mr Gs report. Im also satisfied that the notification  of fraud which  Nationwide 
received from C gave rise to the necessity  to check the beneficiarys entitlement to the 
disputed funds  the responsibility  of investigating and validating Mr Gs allegation passed to 
Nationwide at this point. And there  are several  ways a receiving bank can do this.
Ref: DRN24828293Nationwides mandate and relevant regulation prevent it from debiting its customers  account  
without their authorisation, especially where there is no evidence  that their customer  was 
involved in fraud  or scams or that money had been  paid into their account by mistake. If 
Nationwide were to incorrectly  debit its customers account, it could be held liable for that 
amount.  
With that in mind, looking at the account behaviour and history,  I dont think  Nationwide did 
anything wrong  in not returning the funds immediately upon notification  of fraud from C. I say 
this because one of the reasons a bank may prevent its customer  from retaining a disputed  
credit and return this to the sending bank is if it has reason to believe the beneficiary is 
knowingly guilty of retaining the credit  wrongfully.  Sometimes this is very apparent,  in which  
case the account is blocked, and funds returned immediately but more  often it requires the 
beneficiary bank  to investigate the allegations  further before returning  the funds  which was 
the case in these circumstances. 
I realise Mr G is unhappy with how Nationwide investigated his claim and the time it took, 
and with its decision. But Nationwide  needed to ensure it had satisfied its own legal and 
regulatory obligations before concluding its investigation and notifying C of the outcome. 
Having carefully reviewed the beneficiary  account  and information that was available  to 
Nationwide at the time I dont think its decision to not return  the funds was unreasonable. 
I can, of course  see why Mr G questions  the soundness of Nationwides investigation as it 
initially  concluded the matter as not being a scam  but rather a civil dispute and later, upon 
further investigation changed  its response  to its customer had also been the victim of a 
scam. But I think its important to note that more often than not notification of Authorised 
Push Payment (APP) fraud received from a sending bank is done on trust and accepted in 
good faith. Once notification is received its not for the beneficiary bank to determine  whether 
the payer has been the victim of a scam (which by the way in the circumstances of this 
complaint Nationwide has accepted) rather a beneficiary bank  needs  to decide based  on the 
information available to it, whether under the relevant regulation and with the terms and 
conditions of the relevant bank account  in mind does it have the authority to debit its 
customers account without their consent.   
I know Mr G feels  Nationwides initial decision was based on incorrect  evidence  given by the 
account holder  who has claimed the £500 was received for a Bitcoin transaction  - which 
Mr G says clearly  wasnt the case as he had sent the money for a camera. Im not disputing 
or calling into question Mr Gs claim  I accept he sent the money with the intention of 
purchasing a camera. But Ive not seen anything to suggest the beneficiary account holder 
had acted dishonestly  or was involved  in the scam Mr G fell victim to. 
From what  Ive seen the evidence suggests the beneficiary account holder had no 
knowledge that the funds  sent by Mr G, which were  received into their account derived from 
fraud or that there may be something wrong until they were  notified by Nationwide.  The 
evidence provided  to Nationwide by the beneficiary account holder shows the payment of 
£500 was expected and that theyd sold and parted  with goods (Bitcoin) on receipt  of those 
funds. Based on its customers profile  and the information available  to it at the time I dont 
think the conclusion  reached by Nationwide  that it had no fraud concerns was unreasonable.  
Ref: DRN24828294Mr G didnt accept this and remained unhappy  that Nationwide  had reached an outcome 
without consideration of his evidence. Nationwide agreed to (which based  on what  it had 
already seen it didnt  necessarily need to) review his evidence. It determined  that it seems  
most likely that a third party scammed both Mr G and its customer. I understand why Mr G 
may see this as Nationwide contradicting its original investigation conclusion.  But even at 
this point, ultimately, Nationwide didnt agree to returning Mr Gs funds  for the same  reason 
as when it concluded its initial investigation  that based on what  it knew about its customer 
and the evidence theyd provided - it had no authority  to debit their account. So I dont think  
by not removing the funds  and returning them to Mr G Nationwide acted unfairly.
I know Mr G has also expressed his dissatisfaction with the communication and length of 
time the investigation  took. But Im satisfied,  given the wider  circumstances, the investigation 
required, and privacy rights of the beneficiary account holder  Nationwide responded within  a 
reasonable amount of time and provided  as much information as it reasonably could to 
explain why it wouldnt be returning  the disputed funds. I simply cannot award compensation 
for Mr G remaining  dissatisfied with Nationwides investigation or for the time he chose  to 
spend pursuing this matter and bringing  his complaint to this service. 
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr G, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear. I apologise for the length  of time he has been waiting for this decision and I thank him 
for his patience.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2021.
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2482829