K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about issues  shes experienced with a bed supplied  with finance fro 
Temple Finance Limited (trading as Perfecthome).
background
In April 2017 Miss M was supplied with a bed and entered into a hire purchase  agreement 
with Perfecthome.
Miss M experienced a number of issues  with the bed. In March 2018  the bed fell to one side.  
The side rails were repaired.  In August 2018  the side rails fell off.  This couldnt  be repaired 
so the whole bed was replaced. In September 2018  the centre rail broke. This was repaired.  
In October  2018 Miss M reported that the slats were faulty and causing the mattress to fall 
onto the floor. The bed was inspected but no faults  were found.
Miss M complained to Perfecthome. It acknowledged that there had been some issues with 
the bed which had caused Miss M inconvenience  and paid compensation of £100.
Miss M wasnt  happy with the response. She wanted a bed she can sleep safely  on.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said there  had been  some issues with the 
first bed but said that because Miss M had been provided with a replacement bed in August 
2018 she could  only look at issues with the replacement bed. The investigator said that 
although there was a period of time when Miss M had to sleep on the sofa she felt that the 
compensation already paid was fair and reasonable. In relation to the slats falling out the 
investigator was persuaded by the expert  report that this wasnt  a fault.
Miss M didnt agree. She said she didnt  feel safe in the bed and was unable to use it. She 
said shed purchased another bed from elsewhere  but was still paying for the faulty bed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M experienced issues with the first bed supplied to her and this was replaced in August 
2018. Ive taken account of the fact that Miss M suffered some inconvenience as a result of 
the faults with the first bed but in relation to the faults themselves Ive focussed on the 
replacement bed.
Miss M said she slept on the replacement bed without  any issues for the first 4 weeks  but 
that in late September 2018  the centre  support rail broke and she had to sleep on the sofa 
until this was fixed approximately 3 weeks later.
Miss M experienced further  issues in mid October 2018 with the bed collapsing because the 
slats kept falling out and allowing  the mattress to fall to the floor.
An independent inspection of the bed concluded  that the bed frame moved a lot because the 
bed had been placed on a wooden floor. The expert  refitted the slats but found no fault with 
them and said the slats were dropping out because children were jumping on the bed.
Ref: DRN27051832The Consumer Rights Act 2015  says that where theres a fault with goods  supplied the 
consumer can ask for a repair or a replacement. If the repair  isnt successful then the 
consumer can reject the goods.
In this case, there was a fault with the centre support rail and it was repaired. The issue with 
the slats arose after this repair and the expert concluded that it was caused  by consumer 
negligence. Miss M denies that any children  have jumped on the bed. Whilst Im not in a 
position to comment  whether  Miss Ms children  have caused any damage  to the bed, Im 
persuaded by the expert report  which says there  isnt a fault with the slats.  I havent seen 
any evidence from Miss M which causes me to think that the slats are faulty.
Miss M has clearly been caused inconvenience  as a result of the faults with the first bed and 
the replacement  bed. Shes had to wait for the bed to be repaired and sleep on the sofa 
during this time. 
I can see that Miss M has had to spend  around  6 weeks sleeping  on her sofa.  I appreciate 
that Miss M says she has been unable to use the bed since October 2018; however, as Ive 
already said, I dont think the issue with the slats falling  out is a fault with the bed. Therefore  
Ive only taken into account the 6 weeks Miss M slept on the sofa in considering  the level of 
inconvenience and frustration caused  to her. 
I understand that Miss M feels the bed isnt fit for purpose but the expert  report doesnt 
support this. On balance  I think the compensation already paid is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 January 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2705183