K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a Flex 
Plus account. Mr C says that he was not told that he would not be covered under the travel 
insurance policy for trips with a greater duration than 31 days. Mr C says he would not have 
agreed to the account had he been told this and he would like his account fees refunded.
background
Mr C upgraded to a Flex Plus account in 2017.  Mr C said that he took out the account  
specifically for the travel  insurance that it came with.
Mr C says that he found out, while  on holiday,  that he was not covered as the holiday that he 
was on exceed  the maximum duration allowable under the terms of the policy. He then, a 
few weeks later, suffered a serious  health issue. He says that, knowing he was not covered,  
he did not attempt  to claim under the travel  insurance policy.  
The Flex Plus account came with a range of benefits, notably worldwide family travel  
insurance, mobile phone  insurance and breakdown cover. But Mr C says that had he been  
told that the maximum trip duration  for the travel  insurance was 31 days  he would not have 
taken out the account. Nationwide says that part of its sales  process  was to point out the 
maximum trip length. Mr C also says he also had difficulty  downgrading the account. 
Our adjudicator looked into this complaint. They didnt think that Nationwide had done 
anything wrong  so they did not ask Nationwide to refund Mr Cs account  fees.  Mr C 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Cs complaint. Having carefully  thought about  everything Ive seen I am 
not persuaded that Nationwide did anything wrong  so I am not upholding this complaint.
In this instance I am satisfied that the sale of the Flex Plus account was carried out on a 
non-advised basis. I can see that Mr C has said that the Flex Plus account was promoted  to 
him by Nationwide by it messaging him. But Mr C has not said that Nationwide either 
discussed his circumstances  at the time or said that the account would be right for him 
based on those  circumstances.  So I dont think that this was an advised  sale.
As the account  was taken out on a non-advised basis then Nationwide  did not have to 
ensure that it was right for Mr C and that it was up to Mr C to decide this for himself. Mr C 
has explained that he believed that he should  not have been sold this account  as he had 
informed Nationwide  in the past that he travelled abroad for extended periods. But as it was 
an non-advised sale Nationwide did not need to take this into consideration.
Given this I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to sell the account in the first 
instance. While Nationwide may have been informed in the past that Mr C travelled abroad,  
it does not mean that it should  have  refused  to sell Mr C the account. That said,  Nationwide 
did have to give Mr C enough  information to ensure that he could make this decision for 
himself. 
Ref: DRN27859012Nationwide has said that it did highlight the key benefits of the account and exclusions, 
including that the travel insurance was for trips of up to 31 days. Nationwide has provided a 
checklist which it says wouldve been  followed  during the sale.  For me to uphold this 
complaint I would need to be satisfied that it is more likely than not that Nationwide  did not 
mention the 31 day trip limit duration.
Mr C has said the following about  the sale: If they did inform me it was entangled with so 
much information it was not made  clear. This to me suggests that it is possible  that Mr C 
was told about  the limit. This, in combination  with Nationwides sales  process checklist, 
means that, on balance,  I think it is more  likely  that Mr C was told about the trip duration 
limits.
I also note that the evidence  overall doesnt  support  the idea that it was the travel insurance 
cover that was the sole, or even key, motivator for Mr C taking out the account. I say this 
because Mr C already  had European Travel  insurance through his existing Flex account.  So 
he had no need  to upgrade in order to get that benefit. I can see that Mr C says that this is 
not correct, but I have  carefully looked  into this and I can confirm that the Flex account he 
already held did come with travel insurance.
In relation to Mr Cs difficulties downgrading the account my understanding is that 
Nationwide did make it clear how to downgrade the account so I dont think it did anything 
wrong in relation to this.
I understand that this will be frustrating  for Mr C and I would like to explain that in situations  
like this it is difficult to know what was said but based on the above there is not enough for 
me to say that Nationwide  did not follow its processes and therefore I am unable  to uphold 
this complaint.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN2785901