K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Fortrade Limited (Fortrade) is holding him liable for a trade (the 
trade) on his account that he didnt open.
background
This complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. In summary she said that she 
was satisfied that Mr S opened the trade (26 April 2018) and Fortrade was entitled to hold 
him liable for it.
Mr S responded to say he disagreed with the adjudicators view.  He also said that since 
submitting his complaint the trade had been closed, and not by him, (17 August 2018). 
The adjudicator considered Mr Ss response to her view but wasnt persuaded to change  her 
mind. She also confirmed to Mr S, having spoken with Fortrade,  that the trade  was closed on 
17 August 2018  by Fortrade because Mr S was in breach of his margin  requirement.
Mr S still didnt  agree with the adjudicators view and so the complaint has been  passed to 
me for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I can confirm that 
Ive come to the same  overall conclusions as the adjudicator and for broadly the same 
reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has already been  said.
Its clear Mr S has very strong feelings about this matter. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support  of his complaint which I can confirm  Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr S will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point  raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to 
have happened  given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
opening of the trade  in dispute
I appreciate Mr S wont agree, but having considered what both parties have said and 
submitted very carefully Im satisfied  that on the balance of probabilities the opening of the 
trade was done  from the same IP address as that previously  used  by Mr S.
Ref: DRN21592022I also find Mr S call to Fortrade on 30 April 2018  adds very little weight to his submission  
that he didnt open the trade.
Having listened  to this call I note that rather than being consistent  in his submission that he 
didnt open the trade,  he said that:
he didnt open  the trade, then
he opened the trade but had closed it, then
he opened the trade, and hadnt closed it, but it should be running  a profit  not a loss, 
then
he didnt open  the trade
Furthermore had Mr S not opened the trade  I might  have  expected  him to have closed it 
(rather than leaving it open and running) before complaining, especially early  on when the 
trade was running  at only a very small loss.
Finally Im not persuaded  this trade  could have  simply  been opened by itself, nor can I see 
any good reason  why another  party (including  Fortrade) would have placed this trade 
through Mr S account.
Therefore I dont uphold  this aspect of Mr S complaint.
closing of the trade in dispute
Fortrade says that the trade was closed on 17 August 2018 because Mr S was in breach of 
his margin requirement.  Ive considered this submission very carefully  and can confirm that I 
find it to be both plausible and persuasive. And because of this, and because Mr S has 
provided nothing  that would  persuade me to the contrary, I dont uphold this aspect  of Mr S 
complaint.
So in summary Im not persuaded  that in the particular circumstances of this case  Fortrade  
did anything wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by my conclusions.  My final decision, however, 
represents the last stage  of this services dispute  resolution procedure. Mr S doesnt have to 
accept my decision, and if he doesnt  do so, he will be free to pursue legal action against 
Fortrade Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2159202