K820x#14complaint
I can see this complaint has been with us for a while. This appears to have been due to a 
number of reasons  on both sides  of the complaint, which Ill explain.
Mr S originally complained that Canada Square  Operations Limited, trading as Egg, mis-sold 
him payment protection insurance (PPI) back in in 2000, with a new credit card. 
He said he didnt need PPI and wasnt given  a choice about  having it. He said he thought 
someone might have changed his application  documents without his permission and the PPI 
was therefore  added  to his card account  without his true consent.
Ill refer to CSOL for consistency  as its now responsible for the sale.
background
Im sorry  weve had this complaint for a long time.  Nevertheless, I see we did email and write 
to Mr S in 2014 saying  we didnt think this was a complaint that wed uphold. There  were 
also delays in Mr S replying to some  correspondence, but the biggest delay probably relates 
to a legal  case  that affected some PPI policies  like the one Mr S was sold.
In the meantime CSOL has told us it should pay some money back  to Mr S. This is for a 
proportion of the commission and profit sharing elements CSOL  got from selling him the 
policy. Due in part to the confusion that followed,  we understand that whilst Mr S has been 
offered that money, he still wants us to look into his original  complaint i.e. whether the PPI 
was mis-sold in the first place.
CSOL denies the PPI was ever mis-sold  to him. It says he asked for the PPI cover.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss mis-sale complaint but I agree hes due 
back some  money for the commission element.
Mr S applied for his credit card over the internet. I sympathise that he might not remember 
exactly what happened from this far back,  but Im afraid I think hes much more  likely to have 
agreed to the PPI when he made  his credit card application.
I say this because  weve seen a large  number of very similar cases  to this. So weve  looked 
in considerable detail  at CSOLs processes from that time period and how it generally  sold 
these policies over the internet. And we know from what weve seen  that the online 
application required the consumer to either say that they wanted   or didnt want   any PPI, 
before they could  go to the next stage of the application.
CSOL has sent us an example from its library of the type of screenshots  Mr S wouldve 
seen during the application process. Using this  and my experience of similar sales  Ive 
seen  I think Mr S would have been  able to see he had a choice. I also think  its much more  
Ref: DRN28830702likely Mr S properly  consented to the PPI by selecting the yes,  rather  than the no box, 
during the online application process.  As an on-line application I find it unlikely that someone 
would have manipulated the data to show hed selected yes even  thought he actually 
selected no.
I say this because  its also my experience, for example, that consumers who had asked for 
the PPI were  sent a welcome  letter  about the cover. CSOL sent us an example of the one 
he would  have been sent.
CSOL also sent us copies of Mr Ss monthly credit card statements. These  show that he was 
being regularly  charged for PPI over a sustained and lengthy time period. This was clearly 
described as Credit Card  Repayment Protection on the statements. I think if hed never 
asked for the PPI, he would have wanted  to know why he had been  sent the letter and also 
what these charges were  for.
So I think these things  point strongly  to Mr S agreeing to the cover  and to being aware it had 
been set up for him on his credit  card account.  I think he therefore  asked  for the cover  in 
2000.
Because this was all done over the internet, I dont think this PPI policy  was recommended  
to Mr S as part of an advised sale. Instead, I think  he wouldve made his own way through 
the application and it was his own choice as to whether  or not he ought to buy the PPI. 
CSOLs responsibilities were limited  to providing information  that was clear, fair and not 
mis-leading.
On the web-based form Mr S used, I think he would have had access to a link explaining 
more about the policy.  And this link wouldve been  next to where  he made  the yes / no PPI 
selection. I also know that CSOL usually could have made things a little clearer during the 
process. But overall, this doesnt change what I think about this case.
This is because Mr S was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The cost was 59p per £100 of the monthly 
outstanding credit card balance and I think this made the policy generally affordable for him.
Mr S said he already enjoyed good  protection from sickness through his job and so didnt 
really need any PPI. Ive thought very carefully  about this and I do understand his point. But 
this doesnt make the PPI of no use to him. The policy would have covered Mr S in the event 
of him being  unable to work  or losing his job and would  be in addition  to any other  means he 
already had in place.  In the event  of a successful claim, it wouldve paid off 10% of his 
outstanding credit card balance for up to a year. 
But I stress that as a non-advised sale, it was Mr Ss responsibility, not CSOLs,  to decide if 
this cover was right for him. Overall  however, I think the policy was of use to Mr S and I think  
its fair to say thats probably why he chose  to buy it at the time.
CSOL has already told us it will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because  when 
the policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium).  It should  have told Mr S about that. Because  it didnt, that was 
unfair. To put that right,  it has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN28830703my final decision
I dont uphold this mis-sale complaint or direct Canada Square Operations Limited  to pay 
any more compensation.  
Ive been told CSOL has already offered the commission  and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand Mr S had a separate letter about this issue 
in 2018, so hes not due anything else back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2883070