K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  charged him too much  for his 
motor insurance policy.
background
Having driven a company car - insured by his previous employer - for many years  Mr B then 
insured his own car himself. He bought a policy from Admiral  but didn't  think the premium 
reflected his many years of exemplary driving. He brought his complaint about  that to us. 
Our adjudicator didn't think  Admiral  had done anything wrong. Mr B didn't agree so his 
complaint's been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
I can fully understand  why Mr B doesnt  think that the premium  Admiral charged him 
reflected his driving history.  Hes had many  years of driving without being  at fault for any 
accidents. And hes unhappy  that driving  incidents that weren't his fault and for which  he had 
no control over appear to be affecting the premium Admiral charged  him. But, as our 
adjudicator explained to Mr B, insurance is essentially an assessment of risk. When deciding  
how much  to charge  for their policies  insurers will make an assessment of the likelihood that 
their policyholders will make a claim and how much  they might have to pay out for those. 
And insurers will take into account a number of different factors when deciding what  to 
charge for insurance. And if the assessment of risk increases, an insurer  may decide  to 
increase the premium.
I need to be absolutely clear that were not the industry regulator. That means its not my role 
to tell an insurer how much it can charge for its policies. Neither is it my role to tell an insurer  
what factors  it should take into account when  assessing risk. Different insurers will have 
different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially a matter  of 
commercial judgement and not something we would usually think its fair to interfere with. 
And we generally  take the view that, providing they treat people  fairly - that is they treat 
customer with similar circumstances  in the same way - insurers  are entitled to charge what  
they feel they need to in order to cover  a risk.
In this case its apparent  that one of the risk factors Admiral takes into account  is the 
incidents involving  Mr Bs company  car while insured by his company, regardless that he 
was blameless for those  or whether a claim was made or not. But its certainly not unusual 
for motor insurers to factor non-fault incidents  into their rating  factors when calculating 
premiums even if no claim has been  made. And if Admiral thinks that makes  Mr B a higher 
risk its entitled to charge a higher premium. 
I can understand Mr B may not agree  with Admirals assessment of risk. But that doesn't 
mean its done anything wrong. Its entitled  to decide its rating factors in response to its 
assessment of the risks it covers and the market it operates in. And as Ive said above, it's 
not for me to tell Admiral  how it should go about  assessing the risk it believes its 
policyholders present.  Thats  something  its allowed to do when balancing its need to cover 
Ref: DRN22579382any perceived risks against its desire  to be competitive  and attract a customers  business. 
So I don't think  its approach to rating  risk is unfair.
Admirals given us some  details showing how its calculated Mr Bs premium. That 
information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with him. But, having looked at it 
carefully, Im satisfied it treated Mr B as it would other consumers with similar circumstances. 
Mr B believes his circumstances are different because he had no control over whether his 
former employer  which insured his company car  made claims or not. But all insurers  Im 
aware of will require potential policyholders to tell them about any incident theyve been 
involved in, whether that led to a claim or not. So even if Mr B had insured  his company car 
himself, he still would have had to tell Admiral  about the incidents involving his car and 
Admiral would have  factored  those into its calculation of risk in exactly the same way as it 
did when offering him this policy. So I don't think the fact hed been on his employers 
insurance previously means Admiral  needed to consider  his driving  history  in a different way. 
Also, I think its worth  pointing out that Mr B was under no obligation to accept Admirals 
quote. And hes said that Admiral actually offered him the most competitive premium  he 
could find. So I think its treated him fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2257938