K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly  declined  a travel  
insurance claim made for medical treatment  received whilst abroad.
background
Mr and Mrs M went on holiday abroad with their family in April 2019. Whilst they were away 
Mr Ms ear became  sore and they visited the local medical centre on 10 April 2019. The 
medical centre said it needed  an insurance  claim number before it could treat Mr M, so 
Mrs M contacted her bank  through  whom the family had travel insurance. The travel 
insurance policy was underwritten by UKI.
Mr and Mrs M complain  that UKI handled  this call very unprofessionally. But say the advisor 
confirmed they had cover and said they would be able to make a claim for Mr Ms treatment. 
Mr M received ear drops and antibiotics,  and a further visit to the medical centre  before the 
end of the holiday confirmed he was now fit and well.
On 15 May 2019 UKI contacted Mr M and told him that the insurance cover for him had 
expired on 3 April 2019,  so the claim he and Mrs M had submitted wouldnt be met. It 
reiterated this to Mrs M when it was able to speak with her a couple of days  later. UKI says a 
letter inviting renewal  and a further  reminder had been sent to Mrs M, but she says she 
didnt receive these.
Mr and Mrs M raised a complaint. UKI maintained that it could not cover  their claim. But it 
recognised that it had made a mistake  when it hadnt initially realised that their case  fell 
outside the limits of policy coverage. It also said it could understand why Mrs M found the 
advisor she spoke to on 10 April 2019 to be unprofessional and confusing.  And it offered 
£100 compensation for its errors.
Mr and Mrs M dont  feel this sufficiently reflects what happened.  They say that if theyd been 
told Mr M was not covered they may have taken a different course of action when he needed  
medical treatment. For example contacting  their GP in the UK and visiting  a pharmacy to see 
if they could purchase  ear drops  over the counter. They also say they would not have made  
the return visit to the medical centre  before their flight home.  
To put things right Mr and Mrs M want UKI to cover Mr Ms medical fees (which  were over 
£600). Theyd  also like UKI to put suitable measures in place to ensure similar  mistakes  
arent made in the future.
Our investigator initially asked UKI to pay for the follow  up appointment Mr M had attended. 
But later concluded  that UKI had dealt with this complaint fairly and said he felt its offer of 
£100 compensation was fair. Whilst he felt Mrs M had received poor guidance on the 
telephone call shed  had with UKI on 10 April 2019, he said he was persuaded that she 
ought to have been aware that the extensions to the travel  insurance policy had expired,  and 
that there  was no cover  in place when she and Mr M travelled on their holiday.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept these findings, so the case  has been passed  to me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN24678592We are an informal  dispute resolution service.  I dont have the power  to ask a business  to 
make changes to its processes and procedures. Rather its my role to consider individual 
consumer complaints, and to decide  what action, if any, a business should  take to put things 
right for the consumer.
Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory  I have to make my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities; that is what I think is most likely to have happened given all of the arguments  
and information  Ive been presented with.
Mrs M had a travel insurance  policy  through  her bank account.  The standard policy  covered 
the account holder (Mrs M), for trips within the UK and Europe. On 4 April 2018 Mrs M 
purchased annual upgrades which extended policy cover to other members of her family, 
and increased  geographical  coverage  to trips taken worldwide.
These upgrades  expired on 3 April 2019.  Which means that when Mr M received medical 
treatment on 10 April 2019  he was no longer  covered by the policy.  And the policy  no longer 
extended to the location  at which the family were holidaying, as this was outside of Europe. 
UKI has shown us screenshots from its system evidencing that it sent a letter to Mrs M on 4 
March 2019 to advise that the policy upgrades were due to expire the following month.  Its 
demonstrated the wording of this letter, and of a further renewal reminder it says would have 
been sent 14 days before expiry. 
I understand Mrs M didnt  see these  letters and was unaware the policy upgrades had 
expired. But I dont think I can fairly hold UKI responsible  for this. Im persuaded that the 
letters were sent. And the evidence Ive seen  indicates that they were  correctly addressed. I 
think it is more likely  that not correctly addressed mail would arrive.  And Mrs M hasnt 
suggested she has had other problems with receiving  mail. 
I think UKI took reasonable steps to make Mrs M aware that the upgrades would no longer  
be applicable  to her policy unless she took steps  to contact it to renew them.  I havent  seen  
any evidence to suggest Mrs M did this prior to her and Mr M going on holiday.
 
When Mrs M contacted UKI on 10 April 2019 its evident that UKI gave her the (incorrect) 
impression that cover was in place and a claim could be made for Mr Ms medical  treatment. 
Having reviewed UKIs notes from the call and the assessment  it made when considering 
this complaint I can see it accepts that its advisor made  a mistake here. It explained that the 
call was handled by a new advisor  who is no longer in the same role. And said it could see 
why Mrs M had found the call confusing and unprofessional. 
Mr and Mrs M say that if UKI had told Mrs M on this call that there was no cover  in place 
they may have considered alternative  options for treatment. Theyve suggested  they might 
have contacted their GP in the UK and tried to purchase ear drops for Mr M in a pharmacy. 
Theyve also suggested that Mr M would not have  made the follow up visit to the medical 
centre prior to their return home.  
Ref: DRN24678593I appreciate Mr and Mrs M feel very strongly about UKIs mistake,  and Ive thought carefully 
about whether  it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to cover the cost of Mr Ms medical  
bills despite  the fact no policy cover was in place. But Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have pursued the treatment Mr M did receive even had UKI correctly  advised Mrs M 
on 10 April 2019. 
I say this because  Mr and Mrs M had already travelled to the medical centre prior to 
contacting UKI. It appears from their testimony and the notes UKI recorded that Mrs Ms call 
to UKI was prompted  by the medical centres  request for an insurance  claim number before 
it would  agree to treat Mr M. Had the medical  centre not asked for this information I think its 
likely Mr M would have received treatment prior to Mrs M making any contact  with UKI. So I 
dont think its more  likely than not that their decision to seek this treatment was made based 
on UKIs actions. And whilst Mr and Mrs M have suggested Mr M wouldnt  have  made a 
second visit to the medical centre, based on what Mrs M has said, I understand this was 
recommended by the treating doctor.  
The fact also remains that, (whilst I believe they did so unknowingly), Mr and Mrs M had 
travelled abroad  without  travel insurance cover  in place through  UKI. And I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest they had taken steps  to check the status of the insurance policy  prior to 
making the trip. 
I do empathise with Mr and Mrs M here. I appreciate  theyve been left with an unexpected 
bill for medical treatment in the region of £600. But having considered  everything that 
happened I think UKIs offer of £100 compensation to reflect the poor service  they received 
is fair and reasonable to resolve this complaint. So I wont  be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint as I think the offer of £100 compensation already made by 
U K Insurance Limited (UKI) is reasonable to resolve this matter. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 June 2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2467859