K820x#14Complaint
Mr E brings a complaint on behalf of EE Ltd (EEL). He complains Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
damaged the business of EEL by blocking access to the companys two accounts. He says 
this caused financial  loss to the company but also caused him and his family unnecessary 
stress and worry for which they should be compensated.
Background
Mr E is director of three different companies,  each of which  held a business account with 
Barclays, including EEL. The complaint  was brought to us by Mr Es son, who was the 
director of EEL at that time, but Mr E took over this responsibility late last year.
In mid-June 2018 Barclays blocked  Mr Es sons access to the EEL accounts, a current 
account and a savings account.  They removed the balances on the accounts and showed 
each account  as overdrawn by half a million  pounds.
Mr Es son asked Barclays  what was happening. He was told theyd respond to him in        
10 days, but wouldnt explain their actions, except  to say there was an operational issue. 
Concerned by their response Mr Es son contacted us and a complaint was raised.
On 27 June 2018 Barclays returned the funds to both accounts, allowing Mr Es son to 
access them. He asked  us to investigate his complaint. He said the block  meant hed been 
unable to pay bills or salaries, and his family  had suffered during this time. He also said his 
family hadnt been able to renew  car insurances for three cars as a result.
Shortly afterwards Barclays decided it wanted  to end their relationship with EEL and sent 
notice to close the accounts. At the time Mr Es son said he was unhappy  about  this, and Mr 
E also says the closures were unfair.
An investigator considered the complaint and thought Barclays  hadnt  done anything wrong. 
Theyd acted in line with their legal and regulatory  responsibilities and didnt need to give a 
reason for their actions. Barclays could also close the accounts and theyd done so in line 
with the accounts terms.
Mr Es son disagreed and asked for a final decision by an ombudsman. On Mr E taking over 
the directorship of EEL he also confirmed he wished  the complaint to go an ombudsman.  So, 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons.
Blocking the accounts
I understand Mr E, and his son before him, feel Barclays shouldve given them an 
explanation on why EELs accounts were  blocked.  And I must make  it clear I understand 
Ref: DRN26659912why what happened  concerned them. But I dont think Barclays  have acted inappropriately, 
as Ill explain.  
Barclays have extensive legal and regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing 
account services to customers,  including accounts  held by businesses. And to fulfil these 
responsibilities they may need to review activity taking place on accounts  by not doing so 
they could risk serious sanctions and penalties.  
Looking at the terms of the account they permit Barclays to restrict access  to accounts. So, 
although I understand not having access  to the accounts may have caused financial losses 
and inconvenience  to EEL,  this is not something  for which  Im asking Barclays to pay 
compensation.
I understand Mr E and his family may have been  caused a lot of worry. I see why two 
accounts showing half a million-pound negative  balances  would be quite a shock. But the 
loss I must investigate here is that experienced by EEL, a limited company. EEL is the 
complainant and a distinct  legal person to Mr E and his family because its incorporated. EEL 
cannot itself have experienced the stress  or worry suffered by them, so I wont  be directing 
Barclays to pay compensation for this.
Mr E, and his son before  him, think Barclays shouldve told them  more  about why they 
blocked EELs account. And I understand why not knowing their reason(s) would be 
frustrating. But Barclays is under no obligation  to provide their reason(s), so I wont  be 
directing them to disclose it now.
Closing the account
Barclays can decide not to continue its relationship with EEL, in the same way Mr Es son at 
the time couldve decided he no longer wished EEL to transact with them.  Barclays  decision 
to do this is not something we would generally  interfere  with, as this would impinge  on their 
freedom to decide who they want as a customer, which  includes existing customers.
So, what  I need to consider is whether Barclays followed  their terms and conditions when 
deciding to close EELs accounts. And I think  they did. They  sent Mr Es son a letter telling 
him they were terminating the accounts,  and which gave 60 days  notice as required under 
the account terms. So, I think Barclays did what they needed to when closing the accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26659913
Ref: DRN2665991