K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Miss S and Mr A say Nationwide  Building Society (trading as The Derbyshire Building  
Society) mis-sold  them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss S and Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen some of the paperwork  from the time of the sale. This included  a PPI 
declaration which  asked Miss S and Mr A to select from three  options   to take PPI 
with Nationwide, to take PPI elsewhere,  or to choose not to have PPI. This 
declaration showed  that the PPI cover with Nationwide has been  selected, and both 
Miss S and Mr A signed this document to confirm their agreement.  
Miss S and Mr A then completed a PPI application  form,  separate to their application 
for the mortgage  itself, where  they selected  a particular  level of cover  and chose how 
they wanted the benefit of the policy split between them.
Ive also considered the mortgage offer letter that was sent to Miss S and Mr A. This 
document doesnt make any reference to PPI being a condition  of the mortgage. And 
while I understand that Miss S and Mr A feel they were pressured  into taking the 
policy Ive not seen anything else to support that. All the evidence Ive seen suggests 
that the policy was presented as optional.
So, with what Ive seen,  I think Nationwide made  it clear that Miss S and Mr A had a 
choice about taking out the PPI, and that they chose to take it knowing they didnt 
have to, although I can understand why they may not remember  that now.
Nationwide recommended the PPI to Miss S and Mr A so it had to check  that the PPI 
was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,   
I think that it was. For example they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. 
And while I understand that they both had good  sick pay coverage through their 
employers, I can see that they selected  to only take cover  for unemployment. So I 
dont think their good sick pay means the policy was unsuitable. I also note that 
Miss S and Mr A have said they had savings at the time. But the mortgage was a 
significant financial commitment secured against their home. And the PPI would have 
meant that if either  of them had become unemployed then they wouldnt have 
needed to worry  about covering their mortgage payments for up to 12 months,  and 
could have used  their savings for other  essential expenditure.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Miss S and Mr A about the PPI wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been. But I think they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they 
Ref: DRN25975562wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for them  if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.
Ive also thought about the commission Miss S and Mr A paid on their policy  and whether 
Nationwide treated them unfairly. 
Nationwide has told us that the commission for Miss S and Mr As policy  was less than half 
of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked  at how Nationwide has been  working  this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Miss S and Mr As commission 
was less than half the cost of the policy. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell them about the commission  so I dont think  
Nationwide treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Miss S and Mr A back  
any of the commission  they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S and Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2597556