K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains about a training course financed by Career Development Finance Limited 
(CDF).
background
In 2012 Mr N enrolled on a training course and entered into a fixed  sum loan agreement with 
CDF. The loan was for £5,670 and was repayable  over 42 months by instalments of £135.
Mr N says that shortly after he enrolled  on the course he lost his job and could no longer 
afford the loan repayments. Mr N also says that he cancelled his agreement  within  the 
cooling off period and didnt take part in any of the training.
Mr N is unhappy that he has been  required to make  loan repayments. He wants a refund of 
all payments he has made.
In its final response CDF said that Mr N entered  into the loan agreement  on 31 August 2012 
and didnt cancel  within the 14 day cooling off period.  It said it made payment to the training 
provider on 14 September 2012  and following this it received monthly repayments from Mr N 
up until August 2013 when  Mr N contacted them to advise that he had lost his job and 
wanted to agree a reduced  repayment  plan. CDF said that in January 2014 Mr Ns account 
was referred to a debt collection  agency and that payments were made until June 2015 
when the balance on the account was cleared. 
Mr N wasnt happy with CDFs response so he complained to this service. He said he 
wanted his payments refunded because  he had never started the course. He said he was 
never contacted about the course and never received any tutor support. Hes also unhappy 
that he was told he could do the course  in London  but it turned out that he had to go to Luton 
which he was unable  to do. He feels that the course was misrepresented  to him.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said there  hadnt  been a misrepresentation 
or a breach  of contract. She also concluded that there was no evidence  that Mr N had tried 
to cancel his agreement within the cooling off period.
Mr N didnt agree. He said he enrolled on the course on the basis that it included tutor 
support. Mr N said he had never  received this and had paid money for nothing. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  gives Mr N a like claim against CDF as he does 
against the course provider for a misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
Mr N is unhappy about a number of issues which Ive summarised  already.  He feels that the 
services he could expect  from the training provider were misrepresented  or not provided and 
that accordingly the contract was breached.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement  of fact that causes a consumer to go ahead  with 
the contract. A breach of contract is where  the supplier fails to do what the contract  says.
Ref: DRN22370212Ive thought about whether any of the issues complained about by Mr N amount to a 
misrepresentation including his complaint that he was told that the training  venue would be 
in London and that he would have access to tutor support. In doing so, Ive also thought 
about whether  these  representations were  untrue  and whether they influenced Mr Ns 
decision to enrol.
Ive looked at the enrolment form. This says that the location of any practical training will be 
agreed at the appropriate point in the course. The flyer which  accompanied the enrolment 
form sets out the various locations of the practical  training venues and includes Watford, 
Basildon and Luton.  Theres nothing in the enrolment form or the flyer which  says that the 
training will be provided in London. Because  of this, Im unable to conclude that the location  
of the course  was misrepresented to Mr N.
Ive looked at the Welcome Letter  which was sent to Mr N in September  2012. This explains 
what Mr N needs to do to start the course and gives contact  details  for his tutor. The letter 
asked Mr N to contact  his tutor by telephone or email immediately. Based on this Im 
satisfied that Mr N was provided with all of the information he needed to start the course and 
contact his tutor.
Mr N has said that he left messages for his tutor but didnt receive a call back. He hasnt said 
when he left these  messages  or how many he left. But even if Mr N left several messages at 
the beginning of the course, I would have expected  him to have followed this up with the 
training provider or with CDF if he didnt receive  a response. Theres no record that Mr N 
contacted the training provider or CDF to complain that he was unable  to make contact with 
his tutor or that he hadnt received any course materials.
Just because Mr N didnt  manage to establish contact with his tutor,  I cant safely conclude  
that tutor support  wouldnt  have been  provided. On the information available  it seems more 
likely that Mr N didnt contact his tutor. This would be consistent with his own evidence  which  
is that he tried to cancel  the course  within the first 14 days. On balance Im unable  to say 
that there  has been a misrepresentation.
Mr N has said that he tried to cancel the agreement within the cooling off period. The loan 
agreement was signed on 31 August 2012  so Mr N would have needed to cancel the 
agreement by 14 September  2012. Theres no information to suggest that Mr N contacted 
CDF to request to cancel the agreement within the cooling off period or at any other time. 
The system notes provided by CDF show that Mr N made loan repayments  until August 
2013. Following  this, Mr N asked to make  reduced payments because he had lost his job. 
According to the system notes it wasnt until December 2013  that Mr N told CDF that he 
wasnt taking part in the course and didnt think he should have to make repayments.  This 
was approximately  15 months after the course started.
Based on the information available, the evidence  weighs against the likelihood of Mr N 
having requested  to cancel the agreement during the cooling off period.  If Mr N had tried to 
cancel the agreement I wouldnt have expected him to make repayments  for such a long 
time and I would expect  to see some evidence that he had complained  to CDF much  sooner 
than 15 months into the course.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account and for the reasons Ive given, 
Im unable to conclude that there  has been a misrepresentation  or a breach of contract.  I 
Ref: DRN22370213cant find any evidence to suggest that the agreement was cancelled within the cooling off 
period. Therefore Im unable to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2237021