K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs S took out PPI at the same time as she applied for a personal loan in 2000. The sale 
took place in one of the societys branches  and the loan included  an amount to pay for the 
PPI which  gave her accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed so the case  was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make clear the PPI was optional  and Mrs S had to agree to take it.
Mrs S told us she cant remember PPI being mentioned  at the point  of sale. But on her loan 
application she indicated  that she wanted cover  and the options to select or decline PPI 
were set out with equal prominence. The loan agreement Mrs S then signed also made it 
clear that PPI was optional. It was labelled Optional  Credit  Insurance  and the costs were 
set out separately.
On balance, I think Nationwide  made  Mrs S aware that the PPI was optional  and she chose 
to take it out.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for Mrs S.
It had, however, to give her clear information about the PPI so she could decide whether the 
cover was right for her. Its possible  she didnt  have all the information she needed when  she 
agreed to buy the PPI. But I dont think she wouldve made a different decision with better 
information. I say this because:
Mrs S was eligible  for the PPI  that is, she qualified to be covered by the insurance.
There were  some  terms of the policy that would make it less useful  for some people  
(such as those with pre-existing medical  conditions or on certain kinds of employment  
contract). But Mrs S wouldnt  have  been  affected  by such terms so I dont think  better 
information on them would have changed her decision.  
Mrs S was entitled to at least three  months sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to her work benefits and for up to the life of the loan for accident and sickness 
claims. It also gave her up to 12 months redundancy cover. Mrs S has pointed out that 
she lived with her parents so her outgoings  were  low, but this doesnt change  my 
conclusion. She took out a five-year loan and her other  means of repayment  were limited 
so I think she would  have found  the PPI useful if she was sick long-term or lost her job. 
Ref: DRN29184122The costs were  set out clearly  on the loan agreement.  It set out the price  of the PPI, the 
interest that would  be charged,  the total cost and the monthly  repayment.
And the policy gave  a pro-rata refund if the loan was repaid early, so even if the early  
refund terms were not brought to Mrs Ss attention, it seems  unlikely that this would have  
affected her decision to take out the policy.
Overall, I dont  think Mrs S has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2918412