K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1998. Mrs H says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Halifax had to make  it clear to Mrs H that she had a choice about  it. 
But Mrs H says PPI wasnt mentioned during her credit card application and she wasnt 
aware it had been  added to her card.
Halifax has sent us a copy of Mrs Hs application form for the credit card. This included a 
section on PPI with yes and no boxes to be ticked  and spaces  to sign in to show whether 
Mrs H wanted to take it out. And the yes box has been ticked  and Mrs H has signed in the 
yes space.
Based on this, I think Halifax made it clear to Mrs H that she had a choice about  the PPI. 
And that Mrs H chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mrs H, so it had to check  that it was right for her. 
And, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, she doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than shes  told us she wouldve  been 
entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve meant she didnt  need to rely on her savings to make  
her repayments if she wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for her, Halifax had to give Mrs H clear  information about the 
PPI. Its possible the information  it gave her wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been. But, for the 
same reasons I think it was right for her, it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for 
Mrs H if something  went wrong. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mrs H off taking it out.
Ref: DRN26975482my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2019
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2697548