K820x#14complaint
Ms B and Ms W have  a joint current account with TSB. Ms B made an international payment 
from the account in October 2018,  and says that TSB did not process  this payment correctly, 
leading to the payment being returned and a financial  loss of around £3,000 due to changes  
in the interest  rate.
TSB had migrated to a new computing  system, starting in April 2018, and Ms B feels that 
this meant  staff at the branches  she visited  didnt  know how to properly set up the payment. 
Ms B would  like to be compensated for the stress this caused  her and the costs she says 
she incurred as a result.
what happened
In early October 2018 Ms B needed  to make  a large payment to a relative in the United 
States. She says the first branch of TSB she visited were unable  to help her due to the IT 
issues TSB had experienced following their system migration. She says she then went  to 
another branch, and spent around  two hours arranging for the payment to be made. Ms B 
gave TSB details of where the payment needed  to be made, but feels  that TSB was not 
helpful in making  sure all the correct information had been provided.  
When they payment  hadnt been received by her relative several days  later,  Ms B contacted 
TSB to find out what was going on. TSB told her that the receiving bank in the United States 
had said they would  be returning the payment as the details given did not match  any account 
held with them. Ms B checked the details  with her relative, and asked TSB to pass  that 
information to the receiving bank so that the payment could be processed, rather than 
allowing the payment to be returned, as she was aware that changes in the interest rates  
could affect how much money was returned.
TSB advised Ms B that they would not be able to do this, it was up to the receiving bank to 
return the funds  and TSB would not be able to prevent this. Once the funds had been  
returned to TSB, it arranged for the payment to be attempted  again,  with different payment 
details supplied by Ms B. The payment  was successful  on this occasion,  but unfortunately 
Ms B had lost around £3,000 in the course of these  events due to the interest rate changes.
Ms B says that TSB is at fault for either not knowing what  information needed to be provided  
for the first payment  to be successful, or not adding the correct information to the original 
payment. TSB says that it was for Ms B to ensure  that all the relevant details had been 
provided so does not agree that it has done anything wrong.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Ms B and Ms Ws complaint, he didnt  think  that TSB had 
done anything  wrong. Ms B remained unhappy. She felt shed been significantly 
inconvenienced and that shed lost out financially, and she maintained  that TSB was 
responsible for what had gone wrong. 
So another adjudicator looked at her case afresh. But he also didnt think TSB had done 
anything wrong, so he didnt think TSB needed  to make any payment to Ms B.
Understandably, Ms B and Ms W remained unhappy, so this complaint has now been 
passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN27286682what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I dont  uphold  this complaint. So Im not going to direct  TSB to pay Ms B and 
Ms W any compensation, or cover the financial loss they incurred.
Ive seen TSBs records of the two payments, and Ms Bs correspondence  with her relative 
about the payment. I can see that the message that the receiving bank sent to TSB confirms 
that the payment was returned because the beneficiary bank  had not been provided,  and the 
account number  given was not held by the stated beneficiary. 
Ms B feels that TSB should  have known what details were required, but I wouldnt expect 
TSBs staff to know exactly what account  number or branch a payment needed to be made 
to. I also cant see that TSB entered  any information for the payment incorrectly, as I can see 
from Ms Bs correspondence  with her relative  that the details on the initial payment match  
with the details of the account  where her relative told her to send the funds. TSBs current 
account terms and conditions also make it clear  that it is the senders responsibility  to ensure 
all the payment details  are correct. And Ive listened to Ms Bs conversations with TSB where 
she confirmed that she checked the information on the initial payment before it was sent.
The decision  to refuse the payment and return it was then made by the receiving bank, this 
was not something  that was within TSBs control. TSB then seems to have  done  what  they 
could to help Ms B get the correct information  for the payment to be successful, and the 
successful payment had a different  account  number given; it also used a different Bank 
Identification Code.
With what Ive seen,  I dont think it would be fair to hold TSB responsible for the payment to 
Ms Bs relative failing. I dont think that what has happened here is as a result  of any error on 
TSBs part. 
So taking everything Ive seen and been told into account, I dont think  I can fairly say that 
TSB should pay compensation in these  circumstances or that it should cover  any of the 
financial loss Ms B incurred.
Ref: DRN27286683my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint  so I make no order or award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2728668