K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the charges  Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited  (MBFS)  
asked him to pay to refurbish a car at the end of its lease.
background
Mr S took receipt of a new car in July 2016.  He financed the deal through a hire agreement  
with MBFS and returned the car at the end of its lease. 
The car was inspected prior to return and the inspector noted  several  areas of damage.  
MBFS said the contract they had with Mr S required  him to pay for refurbishment of the 
damage and they therefore asked him to pay to resolve the following issues:
1literature pack missing £115.75
2RHF wheel excessive damage £404.13
3LHF wheel gouge £404.13
4LHF door scratched £210.00
5LHR quarter panel dented £90.00
6tailgate scratched £210.00
7RHR quarter panel scratched £210.00
8RHR door scratched £210.00
Mr S didnt think MBFS were being reasonable. He said hed been promised hed be given 
an opportunity to repair any faults identified in the inspection and he thought  the charges 
they had made were  excessive. He was particularly  upset about the charge for the literature 
pack as he said if hed been told about it he would  have got it from the house where it was 
readily available.  He explained  that the inspector had simply asked him to sign a tablet to 
confirm collection of the vehicle and that the charges hadnt been explained to him.
MBFS didnt think the charges  had been  unfairly applied  so Mr S referred  his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator reviewed  the damage against  industry guidelines provided by the British  
Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA). She thought  all of the damage was 
beyond what would  be considered normal wear and tear except for the damage to the LH 
front wheel. She noted that the contract  explained  the condition  the car needed to be 
returned in and that MBFS had sent Mr S a maturity  pack  which  explained that the 
handbook and service manual would need  to be present in the car when it was inspected. 
She noted that this pack also referred Mr S to the BVRLA standard  that the car was to be 
inspected to. She said the pack explained that it would  be possible for Mr S to arrange his 
own repairs to the car after collection if he arranged to get the car inspected and collected on 
different days.  But as Mr S hadnt asked  for this option she didnt think MBFS had to offer it 
and she didnt think the charges were unfair.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and he therefore asked  for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN20410162my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr S so please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire agreement. The hire agreement is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of Mr Ss finance agreement allowed MBFS to charge him for any refurbishment 
work required to bring the car back  to the Vehicle Return Standard  they provided at the 
onset of the agreement.  
They didnt have  to complete the work: they could, instead, opt to sell the car at auction and 
use the proceeds from the refurbishment  charge they levied to offset  the loss in value  and 
thats what they did.
Im persuaded that Mr S most likely received the maturity pack  that MBFS have explained 
they send out automatically about 90 days before the agreement is due to end. But even if 
they didnt send this I think  its clear  Mr S would have known the condition the car should  be 
returned in as it was explained at the beginning  in the Vehicle Return Standard.
The BVRLA set the industry guidelines about what should be considered fair wear  and tear 
when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease periods. This is referred to in the 
maturity pack. So Ive reviewed the damage to the car that is evidenced in the inspection 
photographs. In all cases I agree with our investigators view that, with the exception  of the 
damage to the LHF wheel where I dont think theres clear  evidence the scuff is in excess  of 
the 50mm guideline, the damage would be considered beyond normal wear and tear and 
should be chargeable. The guidelines  also explain that all documents must be present in 
the vehicle when collected. Its not disputed this wasnt  the case and it therefore would not 
be fair for me to suggest MBFS  were being  unreasonable when levying a charge.
There appears to have been  an option for Mr S to complete  the repairs after the inspection but 
that option was only available if a separate collection date was organised. That seems 
reasonable as I can understand that if repairs were being completed after the inspection;  
different arrangements  would need to have been  made i.e. for the investigators  transport  and 
for any charges  if the lease term was extended  whilst repairs were  carried  out. I dont think  Mr S 
asked for a separate collection day and in those circumstances  Im not persuaded that there  is 
evidence there was an agreement reached  which allowed Mr S to repair the car himself.
Ref: DRN20410163I understand Mr Ss concern that as MBFS havent provided a breakdown  of the work  
required hes not able to work  out if the charges  are reasonable.  Ive reviewed the charges 
that have been made  and I can confirm that they are broadly in line with others  Ive seen  
from their competitors and from MBFS. I dont think theres evidence  that these charges in 
themselves are excessive.
For those reasons I am only asking MBFS to remove  one of the charges theyve asked 
Mr S to pay.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited  to remove the charge of £404.13 they have made  for 
refurbishment of the left hand front wheel.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2041016