K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund some disputed  cash machine 
withdrawals and a purchase from an electronics store made on his account.
background
Mr S says that a number  of fraudulent transactions, totalling £3,827,  were  made  from his 
Lloyds account  on 2 January 2018.  There were  a number of other transactions  attempted, 
but these were picked  up by Lloyds fraud  prevention systems and declined. The disputed 
and declined  transactions took place between 14:50 and 18:23, a breakdown  of the 
transactions that successfully debited the account  are detailed below;
date/time type of transaction amount
2/1/2018 14:50 cash withdrawal £300.00
2/1/2018 15:29 purchase in electrical store £3,517.00
2/1/2018 17:49 cash withdrawal £10.00
Mr S has told us the last time hed used his card was the previous day, 1 January 2018,  
when he made a small purchase  in a shop  this transaction took place at 20:24.  Mr S has 
said that he thinks the card was in his pocket, and that it may have fallen out when he took 
lottery tickets out to check them at the shop. Hes said nobody knows  his PIN and he is 
careful to cover his PIN when making  purchases. Mr S has also told us that he was working 
at the time, for a transport  company,  and has provided details of the jobs he did around the 
time of the disputed  transactions. 
Mr S said it wasnt until the following day, 2 January  2018, at around 14:30, when he 
realised he didnt have  his card. Hes said that he returned to the shop where hed last used 
it, but the card wasnt there and he also checked at home but couldnt find it. Later  that day, 
at 18:36, Mr S logged  into his online  banking   hes said he was concerned as hed heard 
about people losing  money  and wanted  to check his account. At this point he noticed the 
disputed transactions  and contacted  Lloyds at 18:40 to report his card lost.
Lloyds didnt accept  Mr Ss disputed transaction claim. It said the transactions  were  made  
using the genuine card and PIN and it thought  Mr S authorised the payments.  Lloyds  say 
there is no explanation as to how somebody obtained Mr Ss PIN, as there was no point  of 
compromise. It also questioned why a fraudster would wait such a long time before trying  to 
use the card. 
Mr S was unhappy with Lloyds response  and so he referred his complaint to us. An 
investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint, but she didnt uphold it. Having looked  at the 
sequence of events and the circumstances she thought it more likely than not that Mr S 
authorised the transactions. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators  opinion that hed authorised  the transactions,  as he 
hadnt given anybody his card or PIN. He strongly  believed it could be that somebody in the 
bank may have cloned his card and PIN. Our investigator explained to Mr S that it wasnt 
generally considered  possible to clone  a card  but Mr S asked for his complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman for a decision.  So, the complaint has been  passed to me. 
Ref: DRN20323252my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons.
Lloyds is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  The relevant 
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Service Regulations 2009  (the PSRs  2009) . Im 
satisfied from the banks technical evidence  that Mr Ss genuine card and PIN were used to 
make the disputed transactions. But Mr S says he didnt make or know  about the 
transactions, so is asking  for a refund  to the value of the disputed  transactions.  So, I need to 
think about whether  the evidence I have suggests that its more likely than not Mr S 
consented to the transactions  being  made.  
From what  Ive seen and having  considered  everything carefully,  I think it more likely than 
not Mr S did authorise the transactions. I say this because;
-Im satisfied  from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Ss genuine  card and PIN 
were used  to make  the disputed  transactions. But there is no convincing  explanation 
for how a third party could have  known Mr Ss PIN  hes said that he didnt give his 
card or PIN to anybody and that he shielded it when using it. So, it seems  unlikely 
that someone had been able to watch Mr S enter  his PIN in the shop. 
-Mr S suggested that someone working  at the bank could have cloned his card and 
PIN. But I think its unlikely that this is what happened in this case. The banks 
technical evidence  shows that Mr Ss actual card and not a copy  of it was used to 
make the disputed transactions. It shows the genuine chip on the card was read and 
the correct PIN was entered. Current experience tells us that it may be possible to 
replicate information  from magnetic  strips from one card to another, but Ive not seen 
any evidence of a cards chip being cloned  and typically  you wont  be able to make 
a transaction through a UK cash machine if the chip in the card is not recognised.  In 
addition to this, for a card to be cloned in the way Mr S has said,  it would have 
needed to have been used for a genuine  payment first. Ive looked carefully at Mr Ss 
bank statements in the time leading up to the fraud and I cant  see that he used his 
card in a bank branch or in one of the banks cash machines. 
-If the card and PIN had been  intercepted by an unconnected third party,  I would 
expect they would have tried to gain as much  from the account,  as quickly as they 
could. Here this didnt happen   considering  that the disputed cash withdrawals were 
£300, followed by £10, I dont think the daily cash withdrawal limit had been  reached. 
Its unlikely that an opportunistic  fraudster wouldve waited  until the following day 
before making  transactions on the account.  Its much more likely  that attempts 
wouldve been made to maximise spend straight  away and before the card is 
reported stolen  and blocked.  
-There are no further attempted transactions after the card has been reported  lost. 
This leads me to think  that whoever had the card knew it had been  reported lost. A 
balance enquiry was made on the account less than an hour before Mr S reported  it 
lost. This would have  shown there  were still funds available  in the account, for the 
reasons explained above its most  likely an opportunistic fraudster  wouldve  continued  
to make attempts to utilise these available funds.
-Mr S has told us that he was concerned about  his money, as hed heard from friends 
about people losing  their money.  Mr S has said that he noticed he didnt have his 
card when  he went to pay for a car park, but he didnt  report the lost card until later in 
Ref: DRN20323253the evening. So, I think its surprising that he delayed reporting the loss of his card to 
Lloyds. 
I acknowledge that Mr S has said that he wasnt  at the locations  at the time of the 
transactions. But Mr S didnt have to carry out the transactions himself in order  to be liable 
for them under the relevant rules. Taking  everything into consideration its hard for me to see 
how somebody other than Mr S, or somebody  with his knowledge or authority, carried out 
the transactions. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Lloyds  to reimburse 
him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2032325