K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Miss S and Mr W hold with Santander  UK Plc. Their 
property was taken  into possession in April 2018. They  say that on the day they were 
evicted, they were denied time to repay the arrears  in full. To resolve  the complaint, they 
would like Santander to agree a repayment plan and allow  them back  into the property.
background
Miss S and Mr W have had the mortgage since 1998. Its been in arrears  consistently since  
the beginning of 2013. Various payment  arrangements were agreed from time to time, but 
Miss S and Mr W struggled  to keep to them, and in 2015 Santander began litigation. Further  
payment arrangements  were agreed, but not maintained, and in January 2016, a court 
granted a suspended possession order to Santander, subject to a new payment 
arrangement.
That arrangement wasnt maintained and the court issued a warrant for possession  in 
May 2016. Over  the next two years, the case  went back to court  eight times until,  in 
April 2018, the court ordered an eviction. By now, the arrears were in the region of £10,000. 
On the day of the eviction, Miss S and Mr W were trying to raise money to clear the arrears;  
they say they had until 5pm to do so. However,  the solicitors acting  for Santander  refused  to 
wait that long and arranged for the locks to be changed at 2pm.  They were told that if they 
wanted the house back, theyd need to repay not just the arrears, but the whole mortgage 
balance (which, by now,  included the cost of the new locks).
Santander has put action to sell the house  on hold whilst weve looked at the complaint. 
Interest has continued  to accrue  on the mortgage and the arrears  are now in the region of 
£14,000.
Our adjudicator was sympathetic  towards Miss S and Mr Ws wider situation,  but ultimately, 
she didnt think Santander had acted unfairly. Miss S and Mr W have asked for their 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont  mention  
something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  
I assure the parties  Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, Ive 
disappointing news for Miss S and Mr W. Like the adjudicator, I dont think  Santanders 
treatment of them was unfair either.
Miss S, who has presented their arguments to us, makes a point of saying that their primary 
concern isnt the arrears history but the events  on the day of the eviction. I appreciate the 
Ref: DRN29929832distinction she makes, but I have to look at the wider picture, and consider the events of the 
day in the context of the arrears history. More significantly, thats what  Santander will have 
done.
What Miss S and Mr W were trying  to do on the eviction day, in effect, was to persuade  
Santander that, despite everything that had happened before, this time things  would be 
different. Ive no doubt they believed that if they could raise enough to clear  the arrears,  
theyd be able to keep to a new payment arrangement. 
For Santander, or the solicitor on its behalf, to stop the eviction, it needed to be convinced  
that things would be different going  forward. Santander would have  taken into account not 
just the history of broken arrangements  on the mortgage, but also the news that a second 
charge holder also wanted possession, and that hitherto unsecured creditors had obtained 
charging orders to secure unpaid debts. So Santander wasnt  convinced, and I cant  say it 
should have been. Situations like this are a matter of a lenders commercial judgement, and 
it isnt for me to second guess or otherwise interfere with the decision Santander  made on 
that day. 
Losing their home will have been  a devastating  blow for Miss S and Mr W, but I could only 
uphold their complaint  if I considered it was result  on Santander  treating them unfairly, and 
as explained above, I dont find that to be the case. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. That 
means I make no order or award against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2992983