K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC Bank Plc discriminated against him on the basis of his nationality 
when it refused his application for a bank account. 
background
Mr A, a citizen  of a country I shall refer to as Country 1, came to work  in the UK in February 
2018. In early March  he visited  a local HSBC  branch to apply for a bank  account  in order  to 
receive his salary. He said he took all the relevant paperwork and was told the process 
would take three days. On 16 March he was emailed an invitation to attend an interview for a 
safeguard review. The interview took place on 27 March. 
After the interview  Mr A said he was asked to provide  documents proving ownership of 
property he had in two different countries. He was also asked to provide documents  
confirming an inheritance he had received. Mr A said he paid £400  to have some documents  
translated. This was followed up by a request to confirm the value of these assets. 
Mr A said that although he was told the decision would take a further one to two days  he 
waited more than two weeks for someone  to contact  him and he had to keep  chasing  with 
emails. Mr A said he received a decision from HSBC on 26 June that the application was 
declined. He complained to the bank. He said the process had taken  more  than three  
months, hed provided HSBC with all the documents it had asked for and had spent £400 for 
translation. Mr A also said he had been told by many friends that HSBC does not open 
accounts for individuals from Country  1, that it discourages the applicant by its lengthy 
process. He believed the decision  from day one was to decline his application. 
HSBC said it hadnt done anything wrong.  It said it was committed  to treating customers 
fairly and with integrity and that Mr As ethnicity had not been a factor  in its decision to 
decline his application.  Mr A continued to believe he had been discriminated against and 
brought his complaint to this service. 
The adjudicator found that HSBC had acted fairly and hadnt  discriminated against Mr A. He 
explained to Mr A that HSBC had declined his application because he was unable to confirm 
his source of wealth.  The adjudicator also didnt think  it was unreasonable  of the bank to 
take its time reviewing the information. 
Mr A asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  He said he had provided the 
information HSBC  had asked for but said the bank had no intention of opening  an account 
because he was from Country 1. He said he also had a friend  of the same  nationality that 
had had trouble  opening  an account  with HSBC.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr A but having  done  so I wont be asking the bank  to do anything  further.  
I know this isnt the outcome he was hoping for but I hope what  follows will help him 
understand how I came to this conclusion. 
Mr A believes he has been discriminated against  on the basis  of his nationality and would 
like to rely on the rights he has under the Equality Act 2010.  We are an informal  dispute 
Ref: DRN25673462resolution service so its not my role to make any finding on whether or not the bank  acted in 
breach of this act. That is the role of the courts or the Equality and Human Rights 
Commission. But in considering what is fair and reasonable I have to take into account any 
relevant law, regulations, codes of practice and good industry practice. And the Equality Act 
2010 is relevant  law. 
I can see from Mr As emails and contact notes from HSBC that there was just over a week 
between Mr As initial application and the invitation  for safeguard  interview. At the time Mr A 
was new to the UK. He had recently been  living in one country and was a citizen  of another. 
So Im satisfied that any delay at this point was due to the more  complex  nature  of the 
application. 
In the email HSBC  asked  Mr A for his available dates for the interview after 27 March. It 
apologised for the delay  and attributed this to the high volume of applications  at the time.  It 
noted that the interview would be over the telephone so there wasnt  a need to go into the 
branch. Again Im satisfied with the explanation provided by HSBC about the appointment 
delay.
After the call HSBC emailed Mr A requesting further  documents including, but not limited to, 
proof of his inheritance and proof of ownership of properties and land in Country 1 and 
Country 2, where  he had been living most recently. 
HSBC explained  that while some of the questions were intrusive  they were necessary in 
todays world where there is a greater need for security and efforts  to prevent  fraud  and 
financial crime. It also said these questions were  not unusual  and were nothing to worry 
about. Mr A provided a number of documents for which he paid to get translated.  
I can see that Mr A contacted HSBC a few times by email to get an update  on his 
application. He emailed on 20 April saying he had written and chased two days previously. 
He wrote again on 1 May, 3 May and 4 May. The branch emailed on 9 May apologising that 
it still had no answer  and that it would keep Mr A informed. 
On 11 May at 09.39 HSBC emailed Mr A to ask for further documents confirming the value 
of Mr As properties, land and recent  inheritance, along with bank statements from his time 
living in Country 2. 
Mr A replied  at 09.40. He said he couldnt provide official valuations of the properties 
because there were no organisations that could produce the documents  in either of the 
countries. He also said he was unable to provide written  confirmation of his inheritance  for 
the same  reasons. Mr A also clarified in his reply that he would  only be using the account for 
his salary. 
I can see from an internal memo provided by HSBC that Mr As application for an account 
was declined on 11 May at 11.26.  Given that memo  was written very shortly after Mr A was 
unable to confirm  the value of his assets  Im satisfied that the decision to decline was based  
on the merits of the application and not Mr As nationality. 
Mr A has said he wasnt informed  of the decision until 26 June. At 15.24 on 16 May the 
HSBC branch emailed  Mr A to ask if he had received notification  from HSBC about the 
decision. The branch staff member said she had received a message to say the bank  had a 
decision and wanted to make Mr A aware.  Mr A replied at 15.26  to ask what the decision 
was. Ive looked at the contact notes and I can see at 16.02 the following note is recorded:
Ref: DRN25673463I have telephoned customer to explain we have  declined  his bank account.
Mr A has said he didnt  receive this call and he wasnt notified  until 26 June when  he emailed 
the bank to say hed been informed that day. 
Where the evidence is incomplete  or is contradictory, as is the case here,  I must  make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened. HSBC has been  unable to provide a recording of the call because  it was made 
from the branch.  Mr A chased the decision a few times in early May but there is no record of 
Mr A chasing the decision between 16 May and his email  of 26 June. So I think  its likely  that 
HSBC did make this call, though I do accept it appears Mr A didnt receive written 
confirmation of the decision. 
I appreciate that Mr A had to wait some weeks for the decision  on his bank account  and 
I can see this has been frustrating for him. Mr A has said he confirmed the value of his 
assets during  the phone call. Im not disputing Mr A did so, but HSBC has the right to ask a 
customer to verify in writing information he may have  told the bank over the telephone. 
Indeed banks and other  financial institutions  often have a duty to do so in order  to comply 
with the law, regulations and their own processes, particularly in relation to preventing  fraud 
and money laundering. It explained  on both occasions that this is normal procedure. Mr A 
was not able to officially  confirm the value of his properties, land or inheritance in writing 
which Im satisfied has contributed to HSBCs  decision to decline the application on the basis  
it couldnt verify Mr As source of wealth.  
Mr A said he spent  £400 in order to translate  documents. Unfortunately  there was no 
guarantee HSBC  would accept his application  so it would  be unfair of me to ask the bank to 
refund this cost.  
Mr A said he was told by many friends that HSBC  doesnt open  accounts for individuals from 
Country 1. My role is to resolve  individual  disputes between businesses  and consumers 
based on the individual circumstances of the complaint. I cant  make any comment  on the 
banks policies. I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr As application was refused  on 
the basis of his nationality and Im satisfied that any delay in the decision was due to the 
volume of applications and the complex nature  of Mr As affairs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2567346