K822xcomplaint
Mr B and Mr S complained to IPS Pensions (IPS) about changes  that were  made  to the fees 
charged to their group self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). They said the additional 
charges werent  fair, as they werent set out in the original terms and conditions (T&Cs) and 
Mr B and Mr S said they werent notified  of any subsequent changes that were to be made. 
They also said the charges were incorrectly  allocated between the group SIPP  and a sole 
SIPP held by Mr S  and they hadnt been provided  with the information  they needed to 
check these charges  despite repeated requests.  
In addition, theyve  complained that IPS restricted the choice of which  solicitors  could be 
used for property transactions within the SIPP.
background 
On 30 November 2001 Mr B and Mr S set up a group IPS Pension Builder SIPP. As 
confirmation of setting up the plan,  and in addition to the supplementary deed that was 
signed by both parties (as joint trustees),  IPS issued a fee agreement which included the 
following statement:
After the establishment fees, on-going  fees will be charged annually  in arrears in 
accordance with the schedule below. Please indicate your approval to this by signing below 
The document was signed  and then in the notes section it confirmed .Additional fees are 
chargeable on either a fixed fee or time cost basis for non-standard services  i.e. those which 
are not listed below. 
A list of the standard services was then sent out.
Mr B and Mr S had jointly purchased a property in 2002 which was subsequently placed  into 
the group  SIPP   James Hay then took over the management of the SIPP but for the sake  of 
clarity Ill continue to refer to the business  in this complaint as IPS.
On 17 September  2014, IPS wrote to both Mr B and Mr S, explaining that with effect from 
31 October 2014 changes would be made to the SIPP T&Cs. IPS cited  creating  a consistent 
approach to different types of accounts  and meeting their requirements under new legal  and 
regulatory changes  as the reasons for making the changes. Various fees, including  those 
related to property  were  to change. In the letter IPS said:
If you are unhappy with any material change to your SIPP product Terms and Conditions,  
you may transfer your SIPP to another pension provider and we will waive our transfer out 
fee provided you give us your instructions  to transfer out within  90 days  of the change  
coming into effect.
In December 2014 it also confirmed the changes that would be made to the SIPP bank  
account from January  2015.
On 22 March 2017, IPS wrote to Mr B and Mr S confirming further changes to the SIPP 
account charges.
In July 2017 Mr S wrote  to IPS with a number of queries he had about  the SIPP. In particular 
he wanted an explanation of the plans management charges, an explanation for why IPS 
thought there were  two properties  within the plan, and information  about the charges and 
Ref: DRN23221382transactions throughout the time he and Mr S held the SIPP. Mr S said they wanted to wind 
up the SIPP and distribute the assets within  it. But Mr B and Mr S didnt receive  a 
satisfactory response so they complained to IPS making the following points.
They didnt believe the changes to the original T&Cs and newly introduced charges 
were fair  and they both said they hadnt received any correspondence from IPS 
regarding any changes  to the original T&Cs.
IPS hadnt answered their queries  from July 2017, about the charges.
Before July 2017 all charges were  deducted from the group SIPP  but as theyd been 
provided with a copy of an invoice regarding  Mr S sole SIPP they were  concerned  
about whether  the SIPP charges had been allocated  to the correct  SIPP.
IPS had continued to raise  further  charges even though Mr B and Mr S said their 
concerns hadnt been addressed. They  said theyd lost confidence  in any future 
contributions being  allocated  correctly.
IPS didnt uphold  the complaint. In response it said:
It had sent copies of the changes to SIPP terms and conditions to the addresses it 
held for both Mr B and Mr S in September 2014,  and it couldnt  be held responsible if 
they hadnt received them. 
It believed it had good reason to introduce additional charges because  of the 
changing complexity of the administrative tasks it had to undergo particularly with 
regards to commercial property within SIPPs. And it felt it had communicated  the 
changes in advance.
It offered  the opportunity of transferring  the SIPP to a new provider without charging 
a fee. Mr B and Mr S hadnt expressed any interest in taking up this option.
Further changes that were made in 2017  were  also communicated to them both in 
the same  way with the same options to transfer without fees. 
It had answered the queries from 2017  although Mr B and Mr S remained 
unsatisfied with the answers that didnt mean it hadnt responded.
All fees had been charged  as they should  have been. This included the new ongoing  
fees which IPS noted  were still outstanding  from April 2016 onwards. 
IPS noted that it hadnt provided information that was requested by Mr S when he 
enquired about  accessing benefits  from the group SIPP. Therefore it offered to waive 
some fees for 2018 if Mr B and Mr S agreed to withdraw their funds and close  the 
plan - although it would require the other outstanding fees to be paid.
In November 2018 IPS subsequently issued a letter which  stated that only a solicitor from its 
panel could be used for property transactions within its SIPPs.
But overall Mr B and Mr S didnt  think IPS had resolved  their complaint properly, and brought 
it to us where one of our adjudicators looked into the matter. He recommended that IPS 
offer was a fair and reasonable  resolution  to the complaint. 
In summary  he explained:
In his view the original fee agreement was worded with sufficient flexibility to allow for 
other charges  to be introduced.
The manner in which the charges were implemented was reasonable and was a 
commercial decision for the business.
There was no evidence that charges for the joint SIPP were applied to Mr S sole 
SIPP.
Ref: DRN23221383The more recent T&Cs provided for the firm to make further changes such as 
introducing its own panel  of solicitors.
Mr B and Mr S disagreed. They said the T&Cs were  unfair and disagreed  that it was 
permissible for the yearly property charges to be introduced.  They also said the adjudicator  
had failed to correctly interpret the original T&Cs because they thought a unilateral variation 
of them  amounted to a breach of contract. They reiterated that in their view IPS lack of 
information from 2017 had been  crucial in them losing trust in IPS ability  to manage their 
plan and they wanted all charges since 2017 cancelled and all introduced annual property 
charges cancelled as they never  agreed  to them. 
The adjudicator remained of the same  opinion. He also said that assessing whether  the 
T&Cs were unfair was a matter for the industry regulator, pointing out that its website says 
we have  the powers to challenge  unfair  terms in consumer contracts . But he also 
encouraged Mr B and Mr S to work with IPS to try to transfer the plan to another  provider  
and mitigate the outstanding fees owed. IPS then agreed to extend its offer to pause its 
management fees while any transfer  was being processed.  
As a resolution couldnt be found the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.  
Im aware that Mr S has made  another  complaint  about his own SIPP.  So to be clear what 
Im looking  at here is Mr B and Mr S complaint about the group  SIPP  they both hold. Mr S 
other complaint has been looked at separately.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I find myself in 
agreement with the adjudicators assessment and for broadly the same reasons.
Two documents were issued to Mr B and Mr S when they took out a group SIPP  which 
constituted the original  contract. There wasnt a specific booklet that contained the T&Cs at 
that time.  The IPS pension builder brochure gave an outline of what could be invested into 
the SIPP and how the plan worked. It included the SIPPs  features and benefits. The fee 
agreement document set out the initial and ongoing  SIPP  fees that Mr B and Mr S would be 
charged. It noted  that additional fees are chargeable on either  a fixed fee or time cost basis 
for non-standard  services  i.e. those which are not listed below.
 
Ive carefully considered  the list of services  that the agreement said would  be covered by the 
fees. It generally included providing statements, other administration  tasks and liaising with 
the Inland Revenue  examples of which  included:
dealing with regular correspondence with the Inland Revenue  and issuing  of annual 
PCC certificate.
Dealing with day to day general correspondence and telephone enquiries.
Dealing with changes  in Inland  Revenue  practice e.g. revision of the trust deed or 
rules where necessary.
Maintenance of records  including correspondence and PortfolioInvestor  account 
statements.
The IPS Pension  Builder SIPP brochure, which contained the fee agreement that was signed 
by both Mr B and Mr S, went on to say that; additional fees will be chargeable for any of the 
Ref: DRN23221384services set out below,  which are not covered by the fees indicated on the previous page. 
Fees for some additional services depend upon the level of involvement and time spent and 
as a consequence some  can be a fixed fee while others can only be estimated.
The section that included fees for items to be charged on a time cost basis  included any 
matters that are considered non-routine and not part of the normal  administration and 
trusteeship duties.
And I think that sentence  within the fee agreement  gave IPS an authority  to make future 
changes to its charging structure  for additional  work  that wasnt  included  in the services on 
the list. So, based on the fee agreement Im satisfied  that IPS did have the right to introduce 
additional fees in some circumstances.
I note that James Hay  having taken over IPS  issued updated T&Cs in 2014 when it 
introduced the new additional property charge. I know Mr B and Mr S say they didnt receive  
that information but I can see that copies were  sent to the addresses held for them  at the 
time. So, I cant safely say IPS failed to issue copies of the revised T&Cs. 
In an accompanying  letter  IPS explained  that due to the additional requirements placed  on it 
as joint trustee  where a client held self-managed properties,  it thought it needed to 
introduce an additional annual property fee of £480 per property.  And it also decided to 
increase the annual administration  charge  in line with a new benchmark index. 
As Ive already  explained, I think IPS original  documentation  allowed  it to make changes  to 
its fees. So I think the changes it made in 2014  were legitimate commercial decisions it was 
free to make  and we wouldnt normally interfere in such decisions.  But I would expect IPS 
to have made Mr B and Mr S aware of any forthcoming changes  and to have given them  an 
alternative option. 
And I think IPS did that by sending the letters six weeks  before it planned to make the 
changes and with the additional confirmation  that If you are unhappy with any material 
change to your SIPP  product  Terms and Conditions, you may transfer  your SIPP  to another  
pension provider and we will waive our transfer out fee provided  you give us your 
instructions to transfer out within 90 days of the change coming into effect. If you have any 
questions about  these changes, please  contact the IPS Pension  Builder Team.
Ive also seen the letter that IPS sent in March  2017 which  clearly  set out the changes it was 
planning to make to its charges from 28 April 2017. The letter also explained that Mr B and 
Mr S could switch to another IPS SIPP,  transfer  to another  provider  with transfer charges 
waived  or remain within the existing SIPP. 
So, based  on the evidence Ive seen,  I cant say that IPS didnt make Mr B and Mr S aware 
of the changes it was planning. It also offered a penalty free alternative  for them  to consider 
 and I think it was reasonable for IPS to do this.
Ive then gone onto consider whether the additional work that IPS says it had to do was 
outside of the standard services that were  listed in the original fee agreement. Ive looked  at 
the tasks that IPS said it would need to undertake  in return  for the introduction  of the annual  
property charge. And in its letter outlining the change it explained:  
What does  the annual  property charge cover? The charge covers the provision  of the 
following services.
Ref: DRN23221385 Reviewing bank account transactions to ensure compliance with the regulations
 Necessary enquires into the property to ensure that it can be held within  a pension  
environment without incurring tax charges
 Periodic  regulatory reporting
 Ad-hoc  guidance on property issues and queries as far as they impact property such as 
works and insurance  requirements
 Administering expenses,  fees and third party invoices as well as allocating  rental  income
I think these were tasks that IPS wouldnt have had to carry out when it first set up the group 
SIPP and I think its unlikely that IPS would have  been able to foresee how much extra work 
and reporting  it would  have needed  to carry out in relation to SIPPs  when it compiled its 
original T&Cs.  So I dont  think its unreasonable that those original T&Cs allowed IPS to 
introduce additional charges for the work and I think IPS has acted reasonably by taking a 
commercial decision to introduce the additional  property fee.
It seems  reasonable to me for a business  to be able to review its charging structure for a 
particular service  as that service evolves over time.  And its clear the work involved in 
managing a customers SIPP  especially when the regulations changed  to allow  properties  
to be invested  within them  has changed. But I would expect IPS to have made  provision in 
its original contract with Mr B and Mr S, to allow it to consider making  changes  at a later 
date, which  I think IPS has done here.
Mr B and Mr S have also complained that all the charges relating to the SIPP were taken 
from the group SIPP and might not have  been  allocated across that SIPP  and Mr S SIPP 
correctly. Theyve said they want a full breakdown of the previous charges and transactions  
so they can agree a resolution  to the matter and close the SIPP  and redistribute  its assets.
Ive carefully considered  the invoices IPS has raised on the group SIPP and based on what 
Ive seen I think theyve  been raised  correctly  and settled by the SIPP, until the point at 
which Mr B and Mr S decided they wouldnt pay the ongoing fees. Theres no evidence to 
show that the fees havent been  applied according to the fee schedules that were issued. 
And IPS has accepted  that it mistakenly  included an invoice  for the wrong SIPP which  I think  
would have given  Mr B and Mr S some concerns about the charges involved. But while I 
accept their frustration about  receiving  incorrect information I havent seen anything  to show 
that this was anything other than an error and I havent seen any suggestion  of incorrect 
charging.   
Mr B and Mr S have subsequently  complained about  IPS decision not to allow  the use of 
non-panel solicitors  for commercial property transactions within the SIPP. Theyve said this 
is restrictive and could  lead to questions being raised about the impartiality  of their position 
as joint trustees of the plan. But Ive seen the letter that IPS sent on 16 November 2018  
which explained its position and why it was making the change  in line with its revised  
T&Cs  from February 2019.  
I think IPS was entitled to make this variation and I think it gave both Mr B and Mr S 
sufficient warning of the change  allowing  them to transfer to another provider if they werent 
happy with the new terms. As Ive previously confirmed we wouldnt normally  interfere with 
such a commercial decision  made by a business, as long as it was in-line with its T&Cs. And 
I can see the revised T&Cs  a copy of which was included with the letter   said we may 
change our terms and conditions from time to time.  We will give you 30 days notice  of any 
material change to the terms and conditions 
Ref: DRN23221386However, there is evidence to show that IPS didnt  provide Mr S with the necessary 
paperwork to close the group SIPP  when  he first approached it in 2017. And I think this has 
undoubtedly caused both Mr B and Mr S some degree  of distress and inconvenience which I 
think has impacted on their retirement  plans to some  degree.  
IPS has acknowledged  this error  and accepted  that it may have caused a delay in the 
process of potentially closing the SIPP. So its offered to waive  some of its fees in 
recognition of the fact that Mr B and Mr S wouldnt have paid those fees if theyd closed the 
SIPP.
IPS wants the SIPP  to be closed and any outstanding  costs  to be paid as part of the process  
for accepting  its offer. As Im satisfied that IPS was allowed to vary the original contract  it 
issued, I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Bs and Mr S 
complaint.
my final decision
IPS has offered to waive £1,618 worth of charges which it accepts might not have been 
charged if it had provided the requested information that would have  enabled Mr B and Mr S 
to transfer their SIPP elsewhere. 
I think thats a fair offer in the circumstances and I shall leave it to Mr B and Mr S to liaise  
with IPS if they wish to accept the offer and resolve  matters. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2322138