K821x#15complaint
Mr D isnt happy with how Union Reiseversicherung AG handled a claim he made on his 
travel insurance policy. 
background
Mr D had a serious car accident whilst on holiday. He fractured his spine in the accident. 
During that time his wife, who wasnt covered by this insurance policy,  was meeting his 
personal care needs, for example arranging meals and bathing Mr D. The treating doctor 
said Mr D would need to lie flat for a period  of six to eight weeks as there was a risk of 
further injury.
In summary,  Mr Ds complaint is that he spent 17 days in hospital and arranged for his own 
repatriation to the UK as URV  werent helping him. Mr D was in the same hospital as 
someone else who needed repatriating to the UK. Their insurer arranged for the air 
ambulance and Mr D paid around £18 000 to be taken home  on the same flight. URV says it 
wasnt medically necessary to repatriate Mr D. 
Mr D says that hes out of pocket by around £8000  because  URV hasnt paid the claim in 
full. Most of the shortfall  is because they havent paid the cost of the air ambulance in full. 
URV has offered  £11 000 towards  this cost which is less than Mr D paid. 
In their final response letter URV offered Mr D £100 in vouchers to acknowledge that hed 
not received a good service from them. He says that hes also lost out on earnings  as hes 
self-employed. URV  later offered Mr D a further  £100 compensation and paid £2000 towards 
his wifes accommodation costs.  
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld Mr Ds complaint. She didnt think 
URV had treated Mr D fairly and that he hadnt  received  a good service. The investigator 
said that URV should cover the full cost of the air ambulance  and pay £1200 for the trouble 
and upset caused to Mr D. She also recommended  that URV re-assess  aspects of Mr Ds 
claim. She said that URV  should pay a contribution towards the car hire and explained URV 
should also pay the cash benefit for hospitalisation and consider the effective curtailment  of 
Mr Ds holiday  and that of his son who was also injured in the accident. 
In response to the assessment URV provided further comments from their medical  director  
in support of the course of action taken. This included the directors  comments on the 
content of phone calls to Mr and Mrs D. URV  said theyd provide a more detailed  response,  
but they havent. Mr D accepted the investigators recommendation. So, I need  to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt my role to consider the professional  conduct  of the medical  director.  If Mr D has any 
outstanding concerns about that aspect of his case then hell need to refer the matter  to the 
appropriate professional standards body,  which  I understand is the General Medical Council. 
Ref: DRN27166882DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant  the 
ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which  in this case  is 
URV. 
DISP 3.7.11R provides  that a direction may require the respondent, here URV,  to take such 
steps in relation to the complainant as the ombudsman considers  just and appropriate 
whether or not a court  could order those  steps to be taken. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6 - A firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat 
them fairly 
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly,  both between  itself and 
its customers and between a customer and another client. 
The relevant  industry  guidelines also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which  says:
An insurer  must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
the relevant policy  terms and conditions
Under the section  What  if you want to come home early? the policy  document says:
This policy covers you to come  home  early because  you are ill or injured, only if 
medical treatment is not available locally
The more  detailed policy  terms say:
Your policy is intended to cover immediate treatment in an emergency situation.  We 
reserve the right to repatriate you immediately in your home country when this is 
deemed to be preferable regardless of your original travel plans. All medical  
decisions are at the discretion of our medical director.  It is essential  for you to contact 
the Emergency  Assistance Facilities  prior to being admitted anywhere, in this 
instance we may arrange for a local transfer to a hospital better equipped for your 
immediate needs.  
The policy also excludes:  
Ref: DRN27166883Any costs  where  you are an inpatient or it is a repatriation claim and our 24-hour 
assistance service, Emergency Assistance  Facilities have not been notified, or has 
not agreed the costs, we reserve the right to decline associated costs
nursing care
URV isnt responsible for the standard of care in a foreign hospital. However, I think it knew,  
or at the very least ought to have known, that Mrs D would  have been providing much of the 
personal care to Mr D which in the UK usually would  be carried out by a nurse.  The first 
mention of any assistance of this nature was around  two weeks  after Mr Ds accident during 
a call between the medical director and Mrs D. 
I think URV should have  taken a more proactive approach to this issue  as I think they ought 
reasonably to have  known  this could be a problem given Mr Ds location  and their 
experience of working in this area. It is something  the medical director  acknowledged  in a 
call with Mrs D as he said URV  were well aware that the nursing  care wasnt  the same as in 
the UK. Whilst he went on to explain that the standard of care in this countrys hospitals was 
good I think URV were  aware that the nursing care was likely to be very different  from the 
UK and that Mrs D was most likely to have to take over some of the personal care. 
It shouldnt have taken  around two weeks to make this offer of help bearing in mind that 
Mrs D continually kept them updated about  the impact this was having on Mr D and the 
family.
repatriation 
The crux of URVs argument  is that it was never medically necessary for Mr D to return to 
the UK. Theyve pointed out that there are different approaches  across Europe to how this 
type of spinal injury  is managed  in the country where Mr D was patients are encouraged  to 
lie flat whereas UK doctors encourage mobilisation  at an earlier  stage. They say neither 
approach is right or wrong. In summary,  they say Mr D was receiving appropriate treatment 
in the country  where he was and that it was his decision to return. 
But I dont think that reflects the full picture here. Mr D was first hospitalised  on the 7 July. I 
can see that the treating doctor  prepared  a report, dated the same date, for the insurer 
recommending stretcher repatriation.  This wasnt reviewed by the medical team until 10 July 
and then URV realised  it needed translating which caused a further delay. In the meantime, 
Mrs D had also passed on information that the treating doctor  considered Mr D fit to fly by 
stretcher. 
A doctor at URV reviewed  the case on the 11 July and noted that the repatriation  team  
should look into repatriation by stretcher as per the treating  doctors medical report.  
Mr Ds medical  records  were received  on the 12 July and a note of the same date says that 
cover was verified and that the medical  team had agreed with the treating doctors 
recommendation for stretcher repatriation. 
By this point  Mr D had been in hospital for a week and URV had  known the treating doctors  
recommendation from the date of his admission. Up to that point no attempt was made,  
according to the evidence  Ive seen, to reserve or hold stretcher flights,  even though it was 
peak season and this is common industry  practice  in the experience of this service. 
Ref: DRN27166884The first mention of looking for a stretcher flight was on the 13 July. A note on the 15 July 
says, Stretcher  flight  no longer available. Next one is July 23. Around  half an hour later a 
note was added to say there were no stretcher  flights until August. Ive not been provided 
with any supporting evidence that this was the case. At this point URVs document and event  
history refers to the assistance company being  asked to stand down.  On the 20 July the 
notes say that there were no stretchers  available  until the 6 August. That would have meant  
Mr D returning home  around a month  after his accident.  
Based on this information it seems likely to me that there were at least two available  flights  
which could have been available to Mr D had URV been more  prompt  and proactive, for 
example by taking  steps to hold the available flights and progressing the claim with greater 
proactivity and pace from the outset. 
Im also not persuaded that URV made concerted efforts to enquire about  the availability of 
stretcher flights. Theyve not provided evidence of the extent of their enquiries or evidenced  
the limited availability theyve referred  to. 
In reaching this conclusion Ive also taken  into account the note from the doctor who 
reviewed the case on the 18 July. He said:  
Spoke to the TD this morning. He says the fracture  is a single column  anterior 
fracture. It is not a compression fracture.  Pax is immobilised in bed and has a 
brace/corset. The TD IS ADAMANT THAT PAX SHOULD LEAVE THE HOSPITAL  
ON A STRETCHER.  The TD states  that although a single column fracture he says 
any (sic) accident and it could be worse so pax MUST leave on a stretcher. I AM 
NOT ABLE TO OFFER THE INSURER ANY FURTHER ADVICE ON THIS CASE  
GIVEN THE TDS OPINION. The options  are 1) Pax is a stretcher  case  although I am 
informed it is peak  season so some  days  before  this is possible 2) An AA 3) Pax 
remains where he is is (sic) until mobilised which given the TDs approach  could be 
weeks. 
 
Despite this note giving  the option of an air ambulance, based on the evidence  Ive seen, 
this was completely  discounted by URV. No enquiries were made by URV about  the 
availability of air ambulances until after Mr D had told them hed be arranging  his own 
repatriation. Mrs Ds conversations with URVs medical director  suggest URV  had no 
appetite to consider an air ambulance. 
I dont think URVs  actions were fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.  
Mrs D told URV in calls that the treating hospital  wanted Mr D to go home in an air 
ambulance, they were  being hassled by the hospital  to leave, she was running out of her 
anxiety medication  and she needed  to return home  to her teenage  son and an elderly 
relative who she cared for. She also was worried  about needing to get back  to work. 
There was also a language barrier and a lack of nursing  care available. Mrs D had explained  
the impact staying in hospital was having  on Mr Ds mental health. I also bear in mind Mr D 
had been involved  in a serious  car accident involving Mrs D and their son. It is clear from the 
evidence Ive seen  that Mr and Mrs D were struggling to cope, they were increasingly  
stressed and anxious to return  home.  In such circumstances  I dont think it was reasonable 
to expect Mr D to stay abroad so that he could return home seated on a scheduled  flight  a 
month after his accident.  
Ref: DRN27166885Im not persuaded URV treated Mr D fairly by refusing to repatriate  him, particularly bearing 
in mind that URV had opportunities to secure  stretcher flights  but failed  to do so, for reasons 
which remain unclear  to me. Ive also taken into account that there had been no offer of 
practical support  from URV with Mr Ds care until hed been in hospital  for some time. 
URVs refusal to repatriate  Mr D by air ambulance committed  him to a long stay in a foreign 
hospital and was likely to have a significant  impact on both him and his family. So I can 
understand why Mr D felt that he had no choice but to arrange his own repatriation  by air 
ambulance which took place  around two weeks before Mr D would  have been  repatriated by 
URV.
Im also satisfied Mr D has lost out as a result of what happened.  He paid for the air 
ambulance in full and I think it is fair and reasonable for URV to cover the outstanding costs 
of the air ambulance as I dont think URV  provided Mr D with the level of service he was 
entitled to expect under his travel insurance  policy.   
effective curtailment and cash benefits  
Based on the information that Ive seen Mr Ds holiday ended  when he had the accident. His 
son was also involved in the accident and had to receive medical  treatment. 
I cant see that URV has considered the effective  curtailment  of Mr D and his sons  holiday 
when assessing  the claim. I think they should  make a payment as the family  holiday was 
effectively cut short by the accident. Mr Ds son was visiting him daily and supporting  Mrs D 
in offering care to him. So I think URV should pay five days  of their unused accommodation 
expenses and two days of their pre-paid car hire. 
Mr D was also in hospital for a long period of time so I think the hospital cash benefit also 
ought to be paid to him, subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
customer service  during phone calls 
Our investigator concluded that URVs medical  director had presented Mrs D with frightening  
statistics about air ambulances and said how he was against  them in any circumstances. 
This was disputed by URVs  medical director who said:  
I do not believe I said that because it is not true. I authorise many  dozens of air 
ambulances every year. They are carried out when patients needs overwhelm local 
resources or when prolonged continuing care is expected and it would be 
unreasonable to leave  a patient abroad. AAs are also authorised for some practical 
reason when the awkwardness of transfer by scheduled flight is such that an AA 
option is the only sensible way to repatriate  patients. In the context of vertebral 
column injuries, AAs are authorised when it is medically necessary to transfer a 
patient with unstable fractures to a centre specialised  in spinal surgery. AAs are in 
general not provided by those suffering from single vertebra single column stable 
fractures because  nearly  everyone can be repatriated  seated by scheduled flight 
within one month 
Ref: DRN27166886Having reviewed the calls the medical directors comments on this point dont change my 
thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. Ive not quoted  the full content  of the calls but 
the sections I think  are relevant. He said: 
Air ambulances arent nearly as safe as scheduled flights but not nearly. Erm, the 
relative risk is huge so, you would need to bear that in mind as well. You dont  want  
to be on an air ambulance, Im telling you
They are really  significantly  hazardous. The CAA passed them as safe but theyre 
relatively very dangerous as compared  to the option which  is scheduled fight so I 
would only ever go except myself  as a patient  if I were one, go on an air ambulance if 
it was absolutely necessary and no alternative
So, the relative risk, if you want to know that, roughly speaking on the back  of an 
envelope calculation,  per flight an air ambulance is probably between a 1,000  and 
10,000 times  more  dangerous. which is why we have  a bias in the company 
against them  because  we do them all the time but because we have to and the good 
news for your husband is that he does not have to come back  on an air ambulance- 
not at all does  he have to. The problem is bringing  him back  on a scheduled flight, 
erm, is not something we can do in five minutes because,  erm, this is a busy time of 
year and theres a waiting list for stretcher fits. 
: 
I personally wouldnt go anywhere near an air ambulance for that reason
Its not that air ambulances are extremely dangerous, the CAA wouldnt allow them,  
but they are dangerous enough  for us to be biased against  them  unless we have to 
do them,  okay? 
Supposing you were  members of my family, I would say look, just forget  air 
ambulances its either scheduled stretcher or scheduled seated after a longer period 
of time, which do we want? And Id choose from those two things myself 
As Ive explained Ive listened to calls between URVs medical director  and Mr and Mrs D. 
The tone of the calls, and lack of empathy shown, is disappointing. Mrs D was in a state  of 
utter desperation - she was crying throughout the call and was so distressed that she 
vomited at one point.  She had little opportunity to speak  and was given a barrage of 
information. 
Mrs D isnt a policyholder and so I cant  award  her compensation in her own right. But Mr D 
was aware of the call, and had a conversation  of a similar tone with the medical director the 
next day, so Im satisfied this caused him trouble and upset. 
Ref: DRN27166887Towards the end of the call with Mrs D the medical director  discussed  Mrs Ds anxiety 
medication with her. He repeated this information to Mr D in a call the next day. The medical 
director says that he was acting within his professional guidelines. As I outlined at the 
beginning of my decision  I cant make a finding  on that point as it isnt within my remit to do 
so. But, from a customer service point of view,  I dont  think  it was an appropriate time to 
discuss Mrs Ds mental  health with Mr D. 
putting things right
URV needs to put things right by paying:
the remaining  outstanding costs of the air ambulance. URV should  add interest  to the 
claim payment at 8% simple from the date the payment  was made by Mr D to the 
date of settlement
five days of Mr D and his sons pre-paid accommodation cost.  URV should
add interest to the claim payment  at 8% simple from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement
two days of Mr Ds pre-paid car hire cost
hospital benefit which is a set benefit of £25 for each 24 hours, up to a maximum of 
£500
£1200  compensation to Mr D for the trouble and upset caused  which  is in the 
substantial category for our service. This is because I dont think  the claim was 
handled promptly and Im not persuaded that the overall service Mr D received was 
adequate in the circumstances of this case.
my final decision
Im upholding Mr Ds complaint against  Union Reiseversicherung  AG and direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 7 February  2020.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2716688