K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Coventry Building  Society  mis-sold  them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  at a meeting in 1991  at the same time as taking a mortgage. 
Their mortgage  application says Mr B was employed by a jeweller and had been  there  five 
months. It says Mrs B was employed  by a pharmacy, had been there over six years  and had 
earnings roughly  half of Mr Bs. Mr and Mrs B have  said they were  each entitled to less than 
six but at least three months full sick pay and at least three  months full pay as redundancy 
pay. Theyve also told us they were in good  health at the time of the sale. 
The mortgage started two months  after the mortgage application. The PPI policy  provided  
cover on Mr B for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to pay £400 a month towards  Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage costs  in the 
event of a successful claim and cost £19 a month at the time. Based on what  I have, benefit 
payments would be paid for at least,  but possibly not more than, 12 months.  
Coventry has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2001.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Bs representative  says:
 
Coventry failed to meet the sales  standards  which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Coventry  shouldve  told Mr and Mrs B 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Coventry should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs B and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN22822032my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1991 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Coventry at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Ref: DRN22822033Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Building Societies Ombudsman  
in this case  might  have  been expected to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Coventry was required  to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Coventry gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Coventry gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Bs 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and Coventry, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
Coventry had to make it clear the PPI was optional. The mortgage application form had a 
part about  Payment protection that asked Would  you like the Society to arrange 
Coventry Payment Protection  and had boxes  to tick to say either  Yes  or No to the 
cover.
On Mr and Mrs Bs form, which  they signed to take the mortgage, the box to say Yes to PPI 
was ticked - and I think Mr and Mrs B wouldve known that if they didnt want  the PPI the 
No box could be ticked instead.  The mortgage  form also said If YES please complete the 
appropriate application form  so it looks like Mr B also needed to complete an application 
form for the cover before it was set up.
So, although  Mr and Mrs B have said they were  both totally unaware of the PPI and, from 
what theyve said, feel they werent given a choice about it, based  on what I have  and taking 
Ref: DRN22822034everything into account, I think its more likely Mr and Mrs B knew the PPI was optional  and 
agreed to take it without  undue pressure.
did Coventry provide  advice?
Mr and Mrs B cant recall  whether Coventry gave advice. Coventry  doesnt  know whether 
advice was given  or not. The mortgage application  form says of the PPI we recommend [it] 
to all new applicants. But Ive not seen anything  to suggest Coventry led Mr and Mrs B, who 
at the time already had a mortgage with Coventry, to think this was personal advice for them  
or a recommendation for them that took account of their particular circumstances.  And Ive 
nothing that makes me think Coventry gave such a recommendation  or advice at the time. 
So, from what Ive seen,  I dont think Coventry  gave Mr and Mrs B advice  about  the PPI or 
led them  to believe it was recommending  the PPI to them  as suitable for their circumstances. 
I think its more likely the sale was made  instead  without  such  advice being offered or given.
This means  Coventry didnt have to check  if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs B. Instead,  
Coventry had to give Mr and Mrs B sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  
them to make an informed  choice about whether to take the PPI, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs B were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is, that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr B 
were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
cost. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs B wouldve taken 
the PPI without any sense of what  it was for and of how much the premium might be. Also, 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application  form says the PPI was to help with mortgage related 
payments if you are unable to work due to accident, sickness  or unemployment.
Coventry says the monthly benefit amount and monthly premium  was also set out on the 
mortgage offer  and it has provided a file copy,  dated just before the mortgage started, 
which gives the monthly mortgage cost and details separately the monthly cost of the PPI 
and also the cost of the life cover taken  with the mortgage. Im persuaded Mr and Mrs B 
likely received information of this kind at or around  the date of this document.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Coventry  gave Mr and Mrs B, 
before they agreed to the policy,  sufficient information about the policy  premium  and monthly  
benefit and the policy exclusions and limitations.
So I dont  think Coventry gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  drawing 
to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN22822035In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points about  the requirements  on a business  when providing information 
in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Bs. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Coventry ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Coventrys shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs B suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Coventry didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr and Mrs B. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to 
conclude they suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not they would have still taken the policy, had Coventry done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs B say they would not have taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs B had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr B being  unable to work.
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs B chose to take this policy.  So I consider it reasonable to 
conclude they had some  interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But they 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mr and Mrs B thought  they 
were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this differed  is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs B have  suffered  any loss or detriment. 
I consider it more likely  than not Mr and Mrs B knew they would have to pay something  for 
the PPI, but it doesnt appear  Coventry told them the exact premium when they applied for it. 
Having said that, from what  I have it seems likely Mr and Mrs B were  told the cost before the 
mortgage started.  Also if when the policy started  the cost had been  significantly at odds with 
their expectations at the sale,  its possible  they might have raised  that with Coventry  at the 
time, or reconsidered  their decision, but instead they paid for the PPI for a number of years.
Ref: DRN22822036Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs B would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Also, although Ive nothing to show that before  Mr and Mrs B agreed to the PPI Coventry  
made clear exactly what they would  get for a successful claim, the benefit will have more 
than met Mr and Mrs Bs expectations if they expected it to meet  their monthly  mortgage  
payment. The mortgage  offer shows the benefit would more than cover this and also the 
premiums due for the mortgage life cover  and the PPI. I think its unlikely  this was much  
different to, or worse than,  what Mr and Mrs B likely  expected  when they agreed to the PPI.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
According to the policy summary, medical conditions that in the six months before the 
policy had been treated or consulted about,  werent covered.  According  to the policy  
certificate, this applied only for disability occurring in the first six months of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr B wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
The policy protected payments for a limited period, possibly  not longer than 12 months,  
rather than for the remaining term of the mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from taking the PPI.
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. Mr B was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to Mr and Mrs B should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr B 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions. His employment was permanent.  
Also he didnt have  any health issues at the time of the sale,  so the exclusion for recent prior 
health issues, whether  or not restricted to occurrences in the first six months, likely didnt 
affect him. 
So, I think Mr and Mrs B still had some good reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  it unlikely Mr and Mrs B would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy for Mr B without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
The policy certificate  says disability benefit  would  be paid if sickness or accident  prevents  
the Insured from engaging in normal employment or occupation I think Mr and Mr B would 
not have expected to be able to claim for disability if Mr B were  able to engage in his normal  
employment or occupation. Its possible  this could be taken to mean to make  a successful 
disability claim Mr B would need to be unable to engage in any normal  employment or 
occupation. If this was what was meant, it might have played  into Mr and Mrs Bs thinking  
about what to do, and I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  given 
their circumstances, on balance I think they wouldve  still been  interested in taking  the cover.
Ref: DRN22822037Coventry may not have told Mr and Mrs B any claim they made  would be limited, possibly to 
a 12-month period. This may have differed from what Mr and Mrs B expected  and mightve 
hoped for. But Mr Bs full sick pay wouldnt have lasted even six months  and his redundancy 
entitlement, although at least three  months  pay, was likely significantly less than 12 months  
income. In those circumstances, I consider it likely Mr and Mrs B wouldve still thought a 
policy that paid up to 12 monthly payments  to cover their mortgage  repayments and other  
associated costs, would be of benefit to them and help them manage the consequences 
were Mr B unable to work  in the circumstances covered by the policy.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs B would still have taken  the policy. It was sufficiently close  to what  its likely 
they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  manage the 
consequences if Mr B were made redundant, or unable to work through  accident or 
sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs B would have 
taken the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking their circumstances into 
account as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr and Mrs B 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred.
Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments.
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken the policy,  Im satisfied 
that, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not they would still have taken the PPI had 
they been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  they were buying. 
Ref: DRN22822038So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Coventry should pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that would put them  in a better  position  
than they would have been  in if everything  had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B think Coventry  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Coventrys statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Coventry failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Coventry  gave Mr and Mrs B, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1991 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Coventry negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs B and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Coventry had been in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2282203