K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds settlement after she 
claimed on her motor insurance policy.
background
Mrs B was in an accident that wasn't her fault. Admiral deemed her car to be a total loss. 
Mrs B wasn't happy with Admirals offer for the market value of her car and some other 
aspects of its service. She complained. Admiral  acknowledged  that not everything had gone 
smoothly. And it offered Mrs B £200  compensation for the impact  of that. But it thought its 
valuation of Mrs Bs car was fair.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us.  Our adjudicator thought Admirals response to the 
complaint was reasonable. So she didn't think it needed to take any further action. Mrs B 
didn't agree so her complaint's been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
At the heart  of this complaint is Mrs Bs concern  that Admiral undervalued  her car. And, as a 
result, she couldn't buy a replacement car of the same quality. So I've looked  very carefully 
at Admirals valuation.
As our adjudicator explained to Mrs B it's not the role of this service to value cars,  instead 
we look to see whether  or not a business  like Admiral has valued  a car reasonably. Like 
most motor policies Mrs Bs policy says that if her car is deemed  a total loss Admiral will pay 
her the cars market  value. And as a starting  point to find that market  value we look at the 
relevant trade guides for valuing  second-hand cars. We find these reliable as theyre based 
on nationwide research  of likely selling prices. And I find them more persuasive than figures 
cars are advertised for, as those  are often inflated  to allow for negotiation and dont reflect  
the actual sale price. In this case the three guides  I've looked at have produced valuations  in 
a range between  £4,273 and £5,470.
Admiral valued Mrs Bs car at £5,470. So its valued  her car at the top price from the trade 
guides. So I think Admiral  have reached a fair valuation.
Mrs B was also unhappy that Admiral delayed in actually paying  her the settlement. Admiral 
has acknowledged that it could have handled that matter better. And it paid Mrs B £200 
compensation to address the impact of that. And I think thats  reasonable in the 
circumstances.
When she first brought her complaint to us Mrs B was also unhappy that Admiral hadn't 
reimbursed her for her child seats. But I understand it has since done  so and that is no 
longer an issue. So I don't intend to comment on that matter further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN20328732Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2032873