K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that CASH ON GO LIMITED (trading  as Peachy) gave him loans that were 
unaffordable.
background
During 2013 Mr C took out three  loans  with Peachy as follows:
Loan No. Amount Type Date  lent Date  repaid
1 £180 Payday 21.06.13 27.6.13
2 £230 Instalment  (x2) 05.07.13 29.08.13
3 £230 Instalment  (x3) 02.09.13 Sold on
The first two loans were repaid in full and on time.  However the third loan, which was subject 
to three  monthly repayments to November 2013,  was not fully repaid. Mr C paid the first 
instalment of £106 on schedule but wasnt able to make the second repayment  due at the 
end of October.  No further repayments  were made and, eventually,  the loan was defaulted 
and ultimately sold on by Peachy to a third-party  debt recovery  service.
Mr C believes  that Peachy was irresponsible in lending to him because he was already in a 
debt spiral with other payday loans. He believes that Peachy shouldve been aware of this 
through his credit file which wouldve shown the other loans, and also multiple  late payments 
and defaults.
Peachy is content  that it did carry out sufficient  checks before it lent to Mr C and that it 
considered its loans to be affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Peachy had been wrong to provide the loans and so didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr C didnt agree  specifically in relation 
to loan three where he reiterated that he had significant commitments to three  other short  
term lenders (one of which,  alone, was over £1,800  in that month). He thinks that, if Peachy 
had asked for his bank  statements or discussed  his outgoings with him, it wouldve  seen that 
he was experiencing financial difficulties. 
Because both parties arent in agreement the complaint  has been passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Peachy was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to see whether Mr C 
could afford  to pay back the loans before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr C was borrowing and his lending  history, but 
there was no set list of checks that Peachy had to do.
When he applied for the first loan Mr C told Peachy  that he was in full time employment and 
that his monthly  net income  was £2,100.  Peachy has told us that its affordability  checks  
Ref: DRN26407922included information  obtained from a credit  check but it hasnt provided  us with any details 
emanating from this. 
I havent seen  the application form that Mr C completed but Peachy has stated  that he didnt 
declare any regular expenditure. But because the loan amounts were relatively modest 
compared to his declared income, and loans  two and three were repayable by instalments 
which kept his monthly  commitments manageable,  it was satisfied that all the loans were 
affordable.
I think the checks Peachy  did before loans one and two were  proportionate. That was the 
beginning of Mr Cs borrowing relationship with Peachy and the repayments for those loans 
were a small  proportion of his declared income. I think that Peachy was entitled  to rely upon  
Mr Cs declaration of his monthly  income,  from which the loans wouldve appeared 
affordable. As such I dont  think that it was wrong  to give these loans.
However, by the time Mr C applied for loan three  I think that the lender ought to have 
undertaken some more  checks. Loan  three  was granted just three  days after loan two had 
been repaid and was for the same amount. This was the third time that Mr C had borrowed 
within two months. Given that Peachy understood Mr C had monthly income of £2,100 and 
no regular expenditure I think that it should, by then, have been questioning why he needed 
to borrow what it considered to be a relatively small amount repeatedly over a number of 
months.
In these circumstances I think that proportionate  checks wouldve been to expressly  ask 
Mr C for details  of his normal monthly  living costs, including regular financial commitments 
(as opposed to relying upon  information  voluntarily declared via its application form). I should 
emphasise that I consider there to be a distinction between  regular financial commitments 
and other  short term financial commitments . At this stage in the lender/borrower relationship,  
and in light of the background circumstances set out here, I dont  think it wouldve been 
reasonable to expect  Peachy to have asked specifically for details  of other  short term loans.
But I cant see that Peachy asked  expressly for details of Mr Cs regular monthly expenditure 
and so I dont  think that its checks went far enough.
Mr C has told us that, at the time he applied for these loans, his normal monthly expenditure  
(comprising rent, council  tax, food, transport, child maintenance, mobile  phone  and general 
expenses) amounted  to £1,470 per month. I think that if Peachy had asked Mr C expressly  
for details  of his regular  expenses he would most likely have given it these figures.  Had he 
done so Peachy wouldve  seen that he had apparent  monthly disposable income of £630. 
Loan three was repayable in three monthly  instalments (£106, £142 and £135) and I think 
that, in those circumstances, Peachy wouldve considered that this loan was affordable.
I appreciate that Mr C says that at the time of the loans he was in serious  financial difficulty  
and was borrowing  from multiple payday  lenders. Hes told us that, at this time, he had to 
pay £300-£500  per month for other payday loans.  But the proportionate checks  Peachy 
carried out before loans  one and two didnt reveal that. And, even if it had done the better 
checks that I consider  proportionate for loan three, I dont think  that this wouldve become 
evident to it. 
I dont believe that the pattern and levels of borrowings here warranted any fuller review of 
Mr Cs financial  circumstances,  such as asking for details of any other short term loans  or 
sight of his bank  statements. As such, whilst  I accept that Mr Cs real financial position was 
Ref: DRN26407923worse than hed declared to Peachy,  I dont  think theres any reason why it should have 
been aware of that. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C but, taking  everything  into account, I cant  fairly conclude that 
Peachy was wrong to make the loans to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2640792