K820x#14complaint
Mrs O has complained about Amtrust Europe  Limited (Amtrust)  and their decision to 
replace her insured phone. She is also unhappy with the problems shes had with the 
replacement phone since.
background
Mrs O raised a claim with Amtrust after damaging  her phone screen. Amtrust processed the 
claim after receiving the payable excess and proof of purchase,  issuing a replacement 
phone to Mrs O.
Around six weeks later, Mrs O contact Amtrust to let them  know the replacement phone 
shed received was faulty. She asked  for her original phone to be returned  due to this. 
Amtrust said they were  unable to do this so sent an upgraded version of Mrs Os original 
phone to recognise the first replacement being faulty.
Mrs O was unhappy that her original  phone wasnt available. She said she didnt want an 
upgrade and so she raised a complaint. But, she accepted the upgrade in the meantime as 
she was travelling abroad. Amtrust  responded saying they needed the pin of the faulty 
phone to diagnose the fault which Mrs O didnt want to provide. They also apologised to Mrs 
O for the confusion shed  experienced, saying they couldve explained in more detail that a 
replacement was always going to be provided.  But, they didnt think  theyd been  unfair  when 
replacing her phone and had acted  in line with the terms of her policy.
Mrs O then told Amtrust  she couldnt continue to use the upgraded phone. So, she was 
going to return  it and she wanted her own phone or the same make  of phone as a 
replacement. Amtrust said they would  do this if the phone was returned in good condition. 
But, they said the upgraded phone had been scratched and so they wouldnt accept the 
return.
Mrs O has said Amtrusts  failure to return her original  phone has forced  her to purchase 
another phone  entirely, putting her at a financial disadvantage.  So, she wants  to be 
compensated for this loss and the trouble and upset shes experienced.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt  uphold  it. She thought Amtrust had acted 
in line with the policy terms and conditions when  replacing the original phone that was 
insured. She also thought Amtrust acted fairly when providing Mrs O with an upgrade  
following the return of the first replacement phone.  So, she didnt think  Amtrust needed to do 
anything further.
Mrs O didnt accept this view. She thought the investigator had focused  too much  on the 
terms and conditions and hadnt considered the impact on her. She also said that the 
upgraded phone was faulty. As Mrs O disagreed, the complaint has been passed  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
Ref: DRN27143542Im aware Mrs O used her insurance  policy under the impression her phone  would  be 
repaired, rather than replaced. So, Ive looked at the terms of the policy and the information  
Amtrust gave Mrs O when she made  to the claim to decide whether  it was reasonable to 
replace the phone.
Ive seen the policy states if a claim is made  for accidental damage Amtrust will repair or 
replace your gadget  before going onto the explain that if your gadget  is deemed  beyond 
economical repair and will therefore  have to be replaced, we will endeavour to replace it with 
an identical  fully refurbished or new (where a refurbished item is not available)  item. The 
policy also explains clearly This is not a new for old insurance so there was no obligation 
for a brand new phone  to be provided.  
Ive seen Amtrust decided  Mrs Os insured phone was beyond  economical repair so 
replaced it with a refurbished phone. I asked Amtrust how they decided  the phone  was 
beyond economical  repair. Amtrust  said they took a business decision that every claim made 
for the same make and model of Mrs Os insured phone  was processed as beyond 
economical repair and replaced. 
I think Amtrust  were entitled  as the insurer to decide  how to process the claims as long as it 
fell within  the terms of the policy and I think it did on this occasion. So, I dont think  theyve 
done anything  wrong by replacing Mrs Os phone with a refurbished phone  of the same 
model. But Ive also considered the information they provided Mrs O at the time of making 
the claim to make sure she was aware  of this. 
Alongside the terms of the policy Mrs O agreed to, Ive seen  the e-mail Amtrust sent to Mrs 
O acknowledging her claim  on 31 October. This e-mail explained what would happen if the 
phone could be repaired and what would  happen if the phone needed to be replaced. Ive 
also seen the email Amtrust sent to Mrs O after receiving the payment of her policy excess. 
This e-mail explained  that once her damaged phone had been received, Amtrust  would 
send you a replacement device within 3 working  days. So, although  I understand Mrs O 
assumed her phone  would be repaired,  I think Amtrust made Mrs O reasonably aware there 
was the possibility her insured phone would be replaced.
Ive seen that on 26 December, Mrs O told Amtrust the replacement phone  was faulty. 
Although Amtrust havent been  able to diagnose  this fault,  as Mrs O didnt provide the pin 
needed to unlock the phone and test it, I think its likely this was the case as I dont think  Mrs 
O would have told Amtrust this information otherwise.
I understand this wouldve been  frustrating for Mrs O as it left her without a fully functioning 
phone. But, Ive seen Amtrust supplied Mrs O with an upgraded  version of the faulty phone 
to recognise this frustration and I think this was a reasonable  action for Amtrust  to take. I 
understand that Mrs O was unhappy  with this and on a number of occasions  requested  for 
her original insured  phone to be given back to her. Mrs O explained she chose that make  
and model as she preferred it to the upgraded option.
Amtrust have explained that once a phone has been deemed beyond  economical repair,  its 
sold to their salvage team within seven days. So, Amtrust wouldve been unable  to give Mrs 
O that phone  back. But, they told Mrs O they would provide her with another  phone  of the 
same make and model if she returned both the first faulty replacement  and the upgrade in 
good condition.  I dont think Amtrust had to give Mrs O this option but this shows  their 
attempts to resolve Mrs Os concerns.
Ref: DRN27143543Mrs O returned both phones and on inspection, Amtrust said the phone  had been scratched 
so couldnt be re-issued to another customer.  So, they werent able to provide another  
replacement but offered  to send the same upgraded phone back to Mrs O. Mrs O refused 
this option and again asked for her original insured phone  which  wasnt  possible.
Instead of accepting the upgraded  phone,  Mrs O has since  purchased a new phone  of a 
different make and Im aware she thinks Amtrust should compensate her for this cost. But, I 
dont think Amtrust are liable for these costs.  Mrs O had the option  to accept the return of the 
upgraded phone which is still waiting to be sent out. 
Although Im aware  Mrs O has since  explained  the upgraded phone  was faulty, Ive seen no 
evidence that explains why she thought it was faulty. The phone  has been  checked by 
Amtrust since  its been received and no fault has been noted. Ive also seen the e-mail 
conversations Mrs O had with Amtrust after it was returned. Mrs Os main  concern was that 
it was the wrong  model, not that there was a fault with it. 
On balance, I dont  have enough  evidence  to say this upgraded phone was faulty,  so I think  
it was Mrs Os own decision to purchase a new phone and incur  those additional  costs.  Even  
though Amtrust decided  the upgraded phone couldnt be swapped  due to the condition it 
was returned in, Mrs O was left in a situation  where a working, upgraded version of her 
original insured phone was available. 
For these reasons, I think Amtrust have acted fairly and in line with the terms of the policy  so 
I dont think they need  to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint about  Amtrust Europe 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020. 
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2714354