K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  that Santander  UK Plc wont  give her back the money she spent  on taxi 
fares, when she had to travel to a branch to get money out.
background
Miss K told Santander that some money had been taken from her account.  So Santander 
blocked her debit card. But Miss K said that Santander wouldnt give her a new card. So she 
had to go to the branch to get money  out. Miss K said that cost her a lot of money. She told 
us that she has a medical condition which means she has difficulty travelling by public 
transport. So she had to take a taxi. 
Miss K wanted Santander to pay her back  the money shed spent on taxi fares.
Santander said that Miss K had told it that her card had been stolen. Santander blocked the 
card. She was also updating her address at the same time. So Santander said Miss K would 
need to go into the branch with ID to order a new card. It said she did that, and it gave her a 
new card.  
Santander said that it knew that Miss K had said that some  of the transactions on her 
account werent made by her. Santander  said that it had tried to work with Miss K to identify 
which transactions those  were. But it didnt yet have a list of the transactions  that she 
thought were fraudulent. If she wanted  to confirm which transactions she was worried  about,  
it would  look at her concerns. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that Miss K had spoken to Santander  
on 13 October to report her card as stolen. So her card was then blocked. She called again 
on 15 October to order a new card, but was told she had to go into a branch to order that 
new card.  
Our investigator said that Miss K collected that card on 23 October. Shed kept using the 
branch to take money out in late October, then she began using cashpoints  from early 
November. 
Our investigator thought that Miss Ks new card was ordered and delivered in good time. 
There were no withdrawals between when the card was ordered and when it was delivered.  
So she didnt think Miss K made journeys  to the branch  in this time. And it didnt look as if 
the branch withdrawals that she had made in late October were Santanders fault. 
Our investigator said she was sorry to hear about Miss Ks health problems, but she didnt  
think that Santander had blocked her account incorrectly. And there was no delay  in issuing 
her new card. So she said that she couldnt  say it was Santanders fault she had to get taxis.  
Miss K didnt agree with that. She said shes disabled so Santander  should  pay for her taxi. 
Our investigator said that her card was only cancelled  because she reported it stolen. And 
Santander was right to do that. Our investigator  said she couldnt say Santander should pay 
for Miss Ks taxis if it did what its supposed  to do. 
Miss K wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me 
for a final decision.  
Ref: DRN25857942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
Miss K reported her card as stolen  on 13 October. She said this again to Santander on 15 
October. Santander  said Miss K couldnt  order a new card without going into branch. That 
was because she was changing her address at the same time.
I think that Santander did the right thing by cancelling  Miss Ks card when she said it was 
stolen. And I think that asking Miss K to go into branch when she was ordering a new card,  
and changing  her address at the same time, was the right thing to do. 
I know that Miss K has told us shes not able to manage on public transport, because of her 
health. And Im sorry to hear that. It must make life more difficult  for Miss K. But I dont think 
that means that Santander has to pay for her taxi fares to the branch  unless Santander 
has made a mistake.  And I dont  think it did make a mistake. I think Santander was right to 
ask Miss K to go to a branch to order her card,  and then to go to a branch to pick it up.
Our investigator said that Miss K also went to take money  out at a branch, at the end of 
October. I think that Miss Ks account  was blocked again then. Thats because she had 
called Santander  again to say that someone  else had taken money out of her account. 
Because Miss K said that, I think Santander did the right thing  when it briefly  blocked her 
account. So I dont  think that Santander  has to pay for her taxi fares to the branch to get 
money out in late October either. 
I realise that it must  have been very inconvenient for Miss K to have to go into a branch to 
get her money.  And I know that shes told us about  the costs this involved. But I think that 
the reason she wasnt able to get money  out of a cashpoint instead,  was because Santander 
was acting to protect her account. 
I know that Miss K will be disappointed but Im not upholding her complaint. She had to use 
taxis to visit the Santander branch.  But none of those visits were  because Santander had 
done anything  wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2585794