K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold him a single premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2001 Mr R took out a loan and at the same time the bank sold him PPI to protect  his 
repayments. 
Mr R says he didnt realise he could have refused the PPI and it didnt offer good value for 
money. He thinks it was wrong  of the bank  to have sold him the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case
I have decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for this.
I dont know exactly what was said during Mr Rs conversation with the bank. But following 
on from that Nationwide sent Mr R a credit  agreement which he signed. The agreement 
included a set of figures showing  the cost of the PPI and the repayments   these were 
shown separately  from the loan itself. The PPI is described as optional. 
Overall, I think the bank made Mr R aware  that he had a choice about buying the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. 
The bank says it didnt  recommend the PPI. Even if it didnt  do that, it still had to give Mr R 
enough information for him to make  an informed choice about  buying it. Nationwide says that 
would have happened during the phone call and in a welcome pack it would have sent. Its 
possible that information wasnt as good as it could have been,  but having  looked at Mr Rs 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable for him. I say this because:
-Mr R was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
-Mr R might, on reflection, think the policy cost a lot. But, as Ive already said, the loan 
agreement he signed sets out what he would  need  to borrow  to pay for the PPI, the 
interest that would  be charged on that particular  bit of the loan, the monthly cost to repay  
the PPI loan and the potential total cost.  So it seems likely Mr R was made aware of the 
overall cost and found it acceptable. And, given his circumstances, I dont think  the policy  
was unaffordable.  
-It doesnt appear that Mr R would  have been affected by any of the significant limitations 
or exclusions of the cover; such as those  relating to pre-existing medical conditions. 
Ref: DRN28022582-The policy could have  paid out for longer  than Mr Rs work related  benefits if hes been  
unable to work because he was ill or had an accident. So I think he would have  had 
some use for the policy.
-If the loan had been repaid early  Mr R wouldnt have been given a pro-rata refund and 
that made the policy relatively inflexible. I cant be sure that the bank considered this or 
explained the situation clearly  to Mr R. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that he thought it 
might be possible he would repay the loan early, so that feature of the policy didnt make 
it unsuitable for Mr R.
On balance I think Mr R would still have  taken out the policy.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2802258