K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland plc incorrectly debited his current  account.
background
Mr B has explained that in September 2018 he noticed that Bank of Scotland  had removed 
an amount of £2,000 from his account.
Mr B was unhappy with this, so raised his concerns with Bank  of Scotland. It said the reason 
it had debited Mr Bs account  was because it had noticed a cheque Mr B paid into his 
account in June 2018 wasnt  made out to him. Instead, the cheque  was noted as for 
someone else. It said it had been  correct to remove the funds from Mr Bs account  as it 
couldnt say these funds were  his.
But, it accepted  that it had provided a poor service to Mr B. So, it offered him an amount of 
£150 compensation to put this right.
Mr B felt Bank of Scotland hadnt acted fairly by removing the money from his account. So, 
he referred his complaint  to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Bs complaint  and didnt think  this should be upheld. He said 
he had seen the cheque for £2,000 Mr B deposited in June 2018, and was aware  this wasnt  
in Mr Bs name.  So, he thought Bank  of Scotland had acted fairly in removing the funds from 
Mr Bs account. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said Bank  of Scotland had falsified and manipulated the copy of the 
cheque sent to this service. 
Because Mr B didnt  agree  this complaint has been  referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  
Bank of Scotland removed £2,000 from Mr Bs account. And he has said this was incorrect. 
So, Ive considered whether Bank  of Scotland acted reasonably by debiting this money  from 
Mr Bs account.
Ive thought carefully about this. And Im satisfied  Bank of Scotland acted fairly by removing 
the funds from Mr Bs account.  I say this because Ive seen a copy of the cheque Mr B 
deposited into his account in June  2018.  Mr B isnt noted on the cheque  as its intended 
recipient. There is another name  on the cheque instead. Because Mr B isnt noted  as the 
intended recipient on the cheque,  I think  it was fair for Bank of Scotland  to remove the funds 
this cheque was for, from his account. So, I dont require Bank of Scotland  to reimburse 
Mr B with these funds, or do anything more here.
Mr B has said the copy of the cheque Bank  of Scotland has sent to this service has been 
manipulated and falsified  by it. This is a serious  allegation. And I havent seen anything to 
Ref: DRN21414012suggest Bank of Scotland has falsified  or altered the cheque  Mr B paid into his account. So, 
whilst I appreciate Mr B feels strongly about this, it doesnt alter my decision on the outcome 
of this complaint.  
Bank of Scotland has offered Mr B an amount of £150 compensation  as it accepts he has 
received a poor service. I havent  commented on this  because  this hasnt formed the basis  
of the complaint Mr B referred  to us. 
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything  more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2141401