K822xcomplaint
Miss S complains  that a car supplied with finance from Close Brothers  was mis-sold 
because it didnt have  12 months MOT and a full service history.
background 
In September  2018 Miss S was supplied with a second hand car and entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers.
Miss S says the car was advertised with 12 months  MOT and a full service history. She 
subsequently discovered that the MOT had only 5 months remaining and the service history 
wasnt complete. The supplying dealer told Miss S to take the car for an MOT  at a local 
garage and advise of the cost. The car failed its MOT due to the nearside indicator not 
working. Miss S says the supplying dealer  refused to pay for the MOT so she complained  to 
Close Brothers and asked to reject  the car.
Close Brothers investigated the service history and found it to be incomplete.  It arranged for 
the supplying  dealer  to provide the missing service  history.  The dealership agreed to pay for 
the cost of the MOT  test and any work  necessary  in order for the car to pass the MOT.
Miss S asked Close Brothers to meet the costs  of the MOT advisories as well. Close 
Brothers refused  so Miss S complained  to this service. She says the dealer hasnt paid for 
the MOT and that some of the service  history isnt genuine. Miss S wants  Close  Brothers to 
pay for the MOT tests and any work necessary to get the car through  the MOT, as well as 
the advisories and the cost of a car which she hired  whilst her car was left at the garage for 4 
weeks whilst  she tried to resolve matters with the supplying dealer  and Close Brothers.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part. She said the car shouldve had 12 months  
MOT as advertised and because it didnt, Close Brothers should cover the cost of the MOT 
test and any work necessary in order for the car to pass the MOT.  The investigator didnt 
think Close Brothers should have to pay for the advisories  because these didnt render the 
car unroadworthy or of unsatisfactory quality. In relation to the service  history, the 
investigator said there was nothing  to suggest that the service  history wasnt genuine or 
accurate. In relation to Miss Ss hire car costs, the investigator said it wouldve been  more 
cost effective for Miss S to pay for the work  necessary  to get the car through  the MOT  so 
that she was able to use it. The investigator recommended that Close Brothers reimburse  
Miss S for the costs  associated with the MOT tests and repairs  (£142.99), refund one 
months contractual payment  for the period Miss S was without  the use of the car and pay 
£100 for distress  and inconvenience. 
Miss S didnt agree. She said she was still missing a service history and believed  that some  
of the service history  she was in possession of was inaccurate. She felt that Close Brothers 
should pay for the car to be serviced  at a reputable  dealership.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  a car must be of satisfactory quality,  fit for purpose 
and as described.
Ref: DRN29651172MOT
I can see from the copy of the advert provided  by Miss S that the car was advertised as 
having 12 months MOT and a full service history. The car only had 5 months MOT  left. 
Because of this, Im satisfied that the car wasnt as described. Its therefore reasonable to 
ask Close  Brothers to reimburse  Miss S for the costs of the two MOT tests and the work 
which was necessary for the car to pass the MOT. 
I appreciate that Miss S also wants Close Brothers  to pay for the advisories. Ive taken into 
account that this is a second hand  car, which means  that its reasonable for Miss S to expect 
that parts will require attention or replacement  from time to time. The fact that an MOT 
identifies advisories  doesnt mean that the car isnt roadworthy or fit for purpose.  None of the 
advisories identified on miss Ss MOT amount to faults which  would render the car of 
unsatisfactory quality.  In the circumstances I dont  think its reasonable to ask Close Brothers 
to pay for the advisories.
Car hire
I understand that when the car failed the MOT Miss S left it at the garage whilst  she tried to 
resolve matters with the supplying dealer and Close Brothers. Miss S says that she was told 
to leave the car at the garage.  Even  if this was the case, I think Miss S should have told 
Close Brothers that she intended  to hire an alternative car before she arranged  this. I also 
think that, given  the minor nature and low cost of undertaking the necessary work for the car 
to pass the MOT, it would  have been  more cost effective for Miss S to have paid for this 
rather than hiring a car at significant  cost.  For these reasons I wont be asking Close  
Brothers to reimburse Miss S for the costs of hiring a car. However,  I recognise  that Miss S 
was without the use of her car for approximately 4 weeks so I think Close  Brothers should 
refund one monthly payment  to reflect the loss of use.
Service history
The supplying dealer has provided Close Brothers with invoices for the servicing of the car. 
Miss S says there are anomalies  in these documents and that she has doubts about their 
authenticity. Close Brothers doesnt share  this view and has provided Miss S with a letter  
confirming that it is satisfied that the service records provided are authentic. Close Brothers  
has also confirmed with the garages  that carried out the services that they carried  out the 
work. Based on the available information I havent  seen anything  to persuade me that the 
service history isnt genuine. Im satisfied that Miss S has been provided with a full service  
history and for this reason  I wont be asking Close Brothers to arrange  for any further 
services to be carried out on the car.
Complaint handling
Close Brothers didnt  issue a final response to Miss S until after this service had become 
involved. I think Close Brothers could have handled  the complaint in a timelier manner and I 
appreciate that the delay has caused  additional  inconvenience to Miss S. For this reason I 
agree with the investigator that Close Brothers  should pay compensation to Miss S.
Ref: DRN29651173my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Close Brothers Limited  should:
Reimburse Miss S for the costs  of two MOT tests and the necessary  repairs  totalling 
£142.99
Refund one monthly  payment to reflect the time Miss S was without the use of the 
car
Pay Miss S £100 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2965117