K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Citygate Automotive  Ltd (Citygate)  mis-sold  payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  with a loan to buy a car.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional  decision of 
September 2019. Ive attached a copy here because  this forms part of this final decision. In 
my provisional decision I explained why I was likely  to not uphold Miss Cs complaint and I 
invited both parties to let me have anything  they thought was relevant  in response.
Miss C said she had nothing further to add. 
Citygate said it accepted my provisional decision and would pay redress in line with my 
decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Im mindful that Citygate says it accepts my provisional decision and the proposed 
settlement, in the interest  of completeness  and to give Miss C the certainty a final decision 
provides, Ive decided  to go ahead and issue my final decision anyway.
Because neither party has given me anything new to consider, I see no reason to change  my 
reasoning or conclusions  as set out in my provisional decision  so I uphold this complaint 
and I make an award in Miss Cs favour.
putting things right 
Citygate should  put Miss C in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Citygate should:
Pay Miss C the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Miss C made a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy, Citygate can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Citygate to take off tax from this interest. Citygate must 
give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN20263352my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint  and I direct  
Citygate Automotive  Ltd to pay Miss C compensation as set out above. I make  no other 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN20263353Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Miss C complains that Citygate Automotive  Ltd (Citygate)  mis-sold  payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  with a loan to buy a car.
background
Briefly:
In 2010, during a showroom visit, Miss C took out PPI at the same time as taking  out a 
finance agreement  to purchase  a car. The policy provided a monthly benefit equal  to the 
monthly finance payment in the event Miss C couldnt work because  of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. It also offered protection in the event of critical illness and death.
The policy was a regular  premium policy and it cost a little under £40 a month.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld.  They  said Citygate hadnt 
made it clear  that the terms of the policy made  it difficult  for someone  who was a temporary 
worker to claim for unemployment benefit.  Because of Miss Cs employment  circumstances,  
they didnt think  shed have taken out the policy had she been properly advised  and 
informed.
Because Citygate  disagrees, the complaint comes  to me for a decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
For the reasons  below,  I intend to uphold  Miss Cs complaint.
Miss C has told us that she visited the car showroom with her daughter. She says the car 
was intended  for her daughter and she was there simply  to take out the finance  agreement 
on her behalf (I assume  most  likely because she had a better credit rating than her daughter 
at this time.) But she says that her daughter  was the one who was going to make  the finance  
payments.
Ive thought about this and looked to see if the evidence supports this. And having done so, I 
think it does support what Miss C says.  And I also think Citygate knew  or ought  reasonably  
to have known  at the time that this was the case.  
Ive firstly  looked at the paperwork Citygate has provided from the time. 
Looking at the credit agreement  its clearly in Miss Cs name and I can see some  of her 
circumstances are recorded here including her date of birth and her employment details  
recorded as being an office worker  for a housing group.  Miss C has given us the same 
employment details.
Ref: DRN20263354But looking  at the Keyfacts document produced  this summarised the advice and the 
products Citygate recommended Miss C should  take out , I can see that in the PPI section 
the clients occupation is recorded  as Retail Assistant. 
However Miss C wasnt a retail assistant   this was her daughters occupation.  So it would 
appear that Miss Cs daughters occupation was recorded here along with other details about 
her circumstances (Ill come back to this later on.)
Secondly, Miss Cs daughter has provided  us with a copy of her bank statement from 2013, 
which shows the final balloon finance payment being debited  from her account as per the 
terms of the agreement. I can see the agreement reference number is quoted on the 
payment. So it appears the direct debit mandate  was set up using Miss Cs daughters bank 
details. And this means she wouldve had to sign the necessary mandate  with the adviser at 
the time.
Id add that in light of the above, I also think  its likely  the car was registered in Miss Cs 
daughters name; albeit  due to the passage of time supporting evidence isnt available.
So while the above casts some doubt as to whom  Citygate was advising  and Ill address 
this below - I think, more  likely than not, this supports  Miss Cs intentions  for this transaction 
as shes described. And importantly I think it shows the adviser understood or ought  
reasonably to have  understood this too and shouldve acted accordingly.
the advice
As Ive alluded to above, this was an advised sale. So Citygate had to take reasonable steps 
to ensure PPI was suitable for the person they were advising  in addition to providing them 
with clear, fair and not misleading information about  the recommended  product.
Ive already said that some of the paperwork from the time appears to paint a confusing 
picture about the advice that was given. But on the basis that Miss C was the first named 
applicant on the credit agreement (and so the only party who was eligible for PPI);  the 
person who signed the paperwork at the time; and the person in whose name the policy was 
set up, Ive assumed it was Miss C whom Citygate advised.
But for the reasons below I dont think the recommendation for Miss C to take out PPI was 
suitable given  the circumstances  I think it was wrong for Citygate to have recommended  it.
While I accept that Miss C as the named  person  on the finance agreement  was technically 
responsible for the loan repayments,  in reality and practically as I found  above, it was Miss 
Cs daughter who would be making  the regular loan payments. It was her bank  account  that 
the direct  debit was mandated to. And I think this wouldve been done with the adviser  at the 
time.
This means  Miss C didnt have a need for PPI  she had nothing  to protect. Miss C wasnt  
making the loan repayments, so she wouldve derived no benefit from the PPI policy. It 
wouldve had no effect on Miss Cs daughters ability to make the loan repayments if Miss C 
couldnt work because of accident or sickness, or if she was made unemployed. And in light 
of the evidence I think the adviser  knew, or ought  reasonably to have known this.
So for this reason I think it was wrong of Citygate to have recommended  PPI to Miss C  it 
wasnt suitable for her in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN20263355Because I think PPI was unsuitable for Miss C, I think shes  lost out - I dont think  shed have 
taken the policy out if Citygate  had done what it fairly and reasonably should have and if it 
had properly advised her.
putting things right 
Citygate should  put Miss C in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Citygate should:
Pay Miss C the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Miss C made a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy, Citygate can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Citygate to take off tax from this interest. Citygate must 
give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I intend  to uphold this complaint and tell Citygate 
Automotive Ltd to pay Miss C compensation in line with the formula  Ive set out above. I 
dont intend to make any other award.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2026335