K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Scottish Building  Society mis-sold Ms C payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2006. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ms C has said she was told she had to have PPI to get the mortgage. The problem I have, in 
making a decision  on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words used by the adviser and 
the tone in which they were said. And I also wouldnt necessarily expect someone to recall in 
detail everything  that happened about  12 years ago when the application was made. I think 
the application form itself made it reasonably clear Ms C had a choice.  And it isnt 
necessarily wrong to strongly  point out the advantages of buying an insurance  policy,  even if 
the adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy  is actually something 
worth having. The closer it gets to making  someone  feel they have no real sensible  
alternative to taking the policy,  the less acceptable  it is. But, as I say, I cant  be sure exactly 
what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say the bank did something wrong unless I had 
stronger evidence of this. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply:
Scottish Building Society  probably didnt recommend the PPI to Ms C as being  
particularly suited  to her individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI 
fitted her circumstances. It would have  been for Ms C to decide  whether it was suitable. 
But even  if it had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in her circumstances at the time.  Finding yourself  unable  to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the 
same time as Ms C received any employer  sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would 
have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have 
put off the time when she would need  to fall back on any savings or other means  she 
may have had for paying the mortgage  and other living costs. This all would have put 
Ms C in a more secure position, if shed eventually lost income  due to long term sickness  
or unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to suggest  she couldnt afford the PPI 
when she took it out.
Ref: DRN28067472Its possible Scottish Building Society  could have explained the costs and benefits of the 
policy better than it did. But I dont think its likely that full and clear information about  the 
costs would have  affected whether Ms C took the PPI.
Its possible Scottish Building Society  didnt clearly point out the main  things  the policy 
didnt cover. But its unlikely Ms C would have been affected by any of these. And shed 
be paying for it monthly, so she could cancel it at any time without further cost if her 
situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.  
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2806747