K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd has not correctly dealt with a chargeback request and he 
wants the money refunded to his credit  card account.
background
In February 2018  Mr S paid £500  for some shoes  for his wife online using his NewDay  credit  
card. The shoes did not fit and so Mr S explains that he returned them  to the retailer  for a 
refund. The retailer  refused  the refund because it said the returned shoes were counterfeit.  
Because of this the retailer also refused to return the shoes to Mr S. Mr S raised a 
chargeback request with NewDay and the money was refunded to his account in April 2018.  
Following this, the retailer defended the chargeback and in the circumstances NewDay  
concluded that it could not take matters  any further  and the money was removed from Mr Ss 
account.
Mr S is unhappy that he doesnt have either the money or the shoes and he does not agree 
that the chargeback request has been handled  correctly by NewDay.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint was upheld.  He thought that NewDay  
had correctly considered the chargeback request  and dealt with it as he would expect even if 
the outcome wasnt what Mr S was hoping for.
Mr S didnt agree and replied to say in summary that NewDay had lost evidence  in the form 
of emails to the retailer and it had not handled  the chargeback correctly at all.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Mr S is frustrated as he doesnt  have either  the shoes or the money  but 
I can only look at the actions of NewDay when dealing with the chargeback  request.
The money was initially credited back to Mr Ss account once he returned the completed 
forms. The chargeback  process was then raised with the retailer. Mr S therefore  had the 
benefit of the money during the investigation  which I consider is fair and reasonable.
The retailer  defended the chargeback and maintained that the shoes  that were returned  
were counterfeit. Mr S says that he only returned what was sent to him by the retailer.
NewDay concluded that it wasnt able to take the chargeback claim any further as it didnt 
have any evidence that counterfeit shoes had been delivered to Mr S or that the genuine 
shoes were returned. In the circumstances it could not proceed with the chargeback. I agree 
with the adjudicator that in these  circumstances I cant say that NewDay  has done  anything 
wrong. Even  with the emails that Mr S says have  been lost by NewDay  I cant say that this 
would have been enough to successfully pursue the chargeback claim. 
I can understand why Mr S is upset and I sympathise  but I cant say that NewDay  was wrong  
to reach  the conclusions  it did or that it has treated Mr S unfairly.
For these reasons I dont  uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN28357462my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2835746