K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that W J King (Garages)  Ltd. brokered a hire purchase agreement  that was 
unsuitable for his needs. And that it misrepresented that only one lender had accepted  his 
application. He wants compensation.
background
Mr E tells us that in 2014 he entered into a hire purchase agreement  with a lender  Ill refer to 
as M. He says that this agreement was arranged through  WJK. He says hes discovered  
that a much  cheaper  finance deal - with a lender Ill refer to as B - wasnt disclosed to him. 
He says the agreement recommended to him by WJK was the most  expensive. And that 
WJK told him that M had been the only lender that had accepted his application. Mr E claims 
he lost around £9,000  due to the difference in cost of the agreements.
WJK told us that an application  to B had been  considered but not submitted.  It said that Mr E 
had explained  he didnt have the best credit history. And that it was felt a company - such  as 
M - that specialised  in loans to those with poor ratings was more  appropriate. It said this also 
avoided the need for multiple  proposals/searches  which might further damage Mr Es credit  
record.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said WJK wasnt  
obliged to offer the cheapest agreement it could find.
Mr E didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain at the outset that some of the circumstances  to which  this complaint relates  
were the subject of a County Court case in 2017. The court  was not concerned directly with 
the precise subject  matter  of this complaint (whether WJK had misrepresented that M was 
the only lender  to accept his finance application. Or if it was the most expensive  product).  
But Ive read the official  court transcript and judgment which followed.
During the course of the complaint Mr E has made  several references to the law. And how 
he feels it should be applied to this complaint. I should explain that I dont apply the law - 
directly - in the same way as a court  might do. But I do take it into account.
My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution  
Rules (DISP). These can be found  in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook.
DISP 3.6.1 states:
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint  by reference to what  is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
DISP 3.6.4R says I need to take into account  relevant:
 law and regulations;
Ref: DRN25031892 regulators  rules  guidance and standards:
 codes  of practice:
and  (where  appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice  at the time.
Mr Es complaint boils down to two primary elements. Namely that WJK didnt tell him that 
other less expensive finance agreements  were available to him. And that it misrepresented 
that M were the only lender  to accept his application.
A misrepresentation is false  statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter an 
agreement and suffer loss as a result of the misrepresentation.  
Where information is incomplete or facts are in dispute - as is the case  here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
For obvious reasons  I wasnt present when the discussions  were taking place between Mr E 
and WJKs representatives prior to the agreement with M being  signed by Mr E. So I have  to 
rely on the documentary  evidence  and the testimony  that the parties provide.
Ill say immediately that I find much of what Mr E has told us to lack credibility.  In particular 
his suggestion  that WJK had told him that it had applied to every bank and broker on its 
book for a car loan for Mr E. And his assertion that B hadnt rejected his loan but asked for 
more information.  Ill explain  why.
Ive seen a copy  of what seems to be a partially  completed application  to B. As its only 
partially completed the strong probability  is that it was never  submitted. And if it wasnt  
submitted then it follows that B is unlikely to have been in a position to request further 
information.
But I think one further point is worth mentioning. Whilst  this potential application wasnt fully 
completed it did contain a piece  of information which I think  is relevant. Mr Es occupation is 
given as a financial  consultant. That information was later repeated  in the successful  
application made to M. But in the transcript of the County Court hearing to which  Ive earlier  
referred Mr E gave evidence that he wasnt a financial consultant and had never worked as 
such. 
Its hard to think that the information  regarding  his employment history  came from anyone 
other than Mr E. So the probability is that Mr E gave incorrect information regarding  his 
current employment at the time the applications  were being prepared.  And if he gave 
incorrect information regarding such a material fact it casts into doubt his account  of what  
was said to him.
WJK has stated  that Mr E had explained  that he didnt  have  the best credit history.  So it had 
referred his application to a business that specialised in loans to those with poor credit 
ratings. Thats a credible explanation and theres no plausible information to contradict it. So 
that any statement  by WJK to the effect  that M was the only business  to have offered Mr E a 
loan is, in my opinion, highly likely to be true. As such I dont think there was any 
misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN25031893Mr E has also stated  that he thinks WJK was required  to provide him with the best deal. Ive 
seen nothing which justifies  such an assertion. A business may provide a customer with 
options but its for the customer to determine which suits best. And if none  appear suitable 
its up to the customer  to seek further  alternatives. When WJK  told Mr E of Ms offer it was 
open to Mr E to accept  or refuse it as he saw fit.
For completeness I ought to deal with Mr Es contention that he suffered a loss of around  
£9,000. This being the difference  between  the repayment terms of the two loans hes 
referred to. Again  I dont see theres any information to support his contention that he 
incurred such a loss. Ive already stated there was nothing to show  the loan application to B 
was submitted. And even if it had been theres no guarantee it wouldve been  granted on the 
terms which Mr E states. In the absence of such information there  is nothing  to show any 
loss was incurred.  
In summary,  I dont find that WJK did anything wrong in brokering  the finance  agreement 
with M that Mr E entered. As such Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2503189