K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about costs applied to an international  payment and the customer service 
he experienced when querying  this charge. 
background
Mr G was a customer  of Revolut Limited (Revolut). He used an app to manage his banking 
services and paid a subscription  to be a premium member of the service. 
In August  2018,  Mr G used his Revolut app to send a payment to his contractor in Thailand. 
The payment was for nearly 300,000  Thai Baht (THB), equating to more  than £7000.  
After the transfer  completed,  Mr G learned from the recipient that they had received a 
different amount, with a shortfall of approximately 1000 THB (equating  to approximately  
£25). 
Mr G tried to use Revoluts online  chat function, which offered an instant response,  to query  
the discrepancy. He did not receive  a response for a day. 
When Mr G reached  an agent, he complained about  the charge. The agent gave an instant  
response, appearing to reject the complaint, and then provided Mr G with a link to submit a 
formal complaint. Mr G submitted a complaint, saying that there was no information about 
any fees being deducted and that the deduction  of a fee had caused him difficulties with his 
contractor, who had received too little money. 
Revolut sent Mr G its final response shortly afterwards. This rejected his complaint and 
pointed to text in its FAQs which explained that transfers outside  the EU would be sent by 
SWIFT and that customers may incur bank  charges.  
Revolut acknowledged  the delay in responding through customer services  and offered to 
reimburse Mr G for the SWIFT fee, and to refund £72 to represent three months premiums 
for his membership.  
Mr G was not happy with this response and contacted  us. He complained that the 
information on SWIFT charges was not up front and was not clear to customers before 
making international transfers. He wanted £200  compensation  for his wasted time and 
distress. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties.  This 
was that there were  some failings in the service in relation to the time it took to respond to 
Mr G, but that Revolut had acted  reasonably  in its offer of compensation. 
Mr G was not happy with this view and asked  for an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN24539652I sympathise with Mr Gs frustration at learning  that a fee had been  deducted  after the 
transaction as the immediate information  which  appears  to customers  makes  clear that 
premium users will not incur fees from Revolut  for its service.  
I also appreciate that, if Mr G believed that no deductions would apply and he sent the 
precise amount  that was needed  for his contractor then this will have caused him 
inconvenience. 
The link that Revolut initially directed Mr G to, in its response, was a frequently  asked 
questions section, entitled why  was I charged  a fee for my transfer?. I do not think  this 
information sufficient  to demonstrate that customers would be aware that charges may apply  
because a customer would have already have to have incurred a fee before looking up this 
question. 
Revolut has, however,  pointed to other information  available on its app and website which 
discusses transfers  and the fees that would apply to them.  This makes clear that fees may 
be charged for some bank  charges, and that the level of these fees may be advised prior to 
entering into the bank  transfer. 
Under the heading, Exploring Revolut,  are sub headings entitled Sending money  and will I 
be charged for transferring money?. It is then explained that if the beneficiary bank is 
located outside the EU then the transfer will be sent by SWIFT and may incur fees. 
Mr G has commented that this information did not form part of the terms and conditions of 
the website or app, and that the information  does  not specify what  fees will be. He also says 
that the transaction process  gives the impression that no fees will apply  and that the full 
amount will reach the destination account.  
I accept that the information is not provided  in traditional terms and conditions, but the 
information is provided and is available for customers, in a logical place that would be 
reviewed prior to carrying out a transfer.  I therefore think it was sufficient to put Mr G on 
notice that there may be a SWIFT charge deducted. 
I appreciate that Mr G feels that the information should be more prominent  and that he feels  
that the website  is misleading since it does not detail the exact amounts of SWIFT  charges. 
I understand Mr Gs view, but the website indicates  that estimates can be given for particular 
currencies. I would not expect a website  to detail every charge which may be possible, but to 
flag that charges  may apply and then respond  reasonably to queries from the customer. 
I therefore think that, although  the information  could  have been more  prominent, it was 
sufficient to put Mr G on notice of potential SWIFT charges.  
In respect of the delay in responding to Mr Gs concerns  via the customer services chat 
option, I accept  that the delay of a day was not acceptable and was not the service  Mr G had 
paid for. I do, however,  think  that Revolut has acted reasonably by apologising for that delay 
and compensating  him by refunding his membership fees. I would not ask it to do anything 
further. 
I realise that this will be disappointing  for Mr G, but whilst I acknowledge some shortcomings  
in the service I think these  issues have  been  appropriately compensated by the business.  I 
Ref: DRN24539653do not, therefore, uphold Mr Gs complaint and I do not ask the business to do anything 
further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint  and do not ask Revolut 
Limited to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2453965