K820x#14complaint
Hs complaint is about a claim  made  by its Director,  Mr F on its behalf under a business 
protection insurance policy.
Mr F says that Aviva unfairly declined that claim.
background
H suffered a break  in to its business premises. During the break in around £4,000 in cash  
was stolen, which belonged to Mr F personally.
Mr F made a claim on Hs business  protection  policy for reimbursement of some of the cash. 
Hed already made a successful claim for £300 of it on his personal insurance  policy.  Aviva  
declined to cover the claim. They said the policy didnt cover  cash  which didnt belong to H.
Mr F says Aviva  havent  interpreted the terms of Hs insurance policy fairly. Hes pointed out 
that the policy wording  in relation to money  from the previous policy year was restrictive  and 
made clear that money belonging to anyone  other  than the policy holder wasnt  covered. He 
says the present policy is ambiguous and doesnt  limit Hs claim in this way. Mr F also 
accepts the cash  was his own but says that H was holding his money for safekeeping, so H 
was responsible for it.
Two of our investigators considered Hs complaint  and didnt uphold it. H doesnt agree so 
the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Hs 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
The starting point  is the policy terms. They say, We will cover You for loss of coin, bank and 
currency notes during the Period of Insurance.  The policy goes on to specify it provides 
cover for this outside  of business hours both if the money is locked and not locked in a safe. 
I understand that the money in Hs claim was both locked  in and outside of a safe outside 
business hours, on Hs premises.
You is defined as The person(s), company(ies),  partnership(s) or unincorporated  
association(s) named  in Your Schedule as The Policyholder. The policy schedule notes the 
policyholder as H. So H is covered for loss of money. The question I have to decide  is 
whether that means H is covered for loss of money owned by another- in this case, its 
Director, Mr F.
Mr F doesnt think the policy restricts ownership  of the money.  He refers to a previous Aviva 
policy which  required money to be connected  with the business itself. Mr F feels that if Aviva 
wanted to restrict cover  in the way that they have here,  they ought to have made  it clear  in 
the policy and their failure to do means H should be entitled to its claim.
I understand Mr Fs point  and that H was holding  the money for safekeeping for him. But I 
dont think this means the claim should  be covered. Whilst the policy  doesnt  specifically  
refer to the money needing to belong  to H, it does make clear  when property  owned  by 
Ref: DRN29206522either a Director or employee  is covered. So, I dont think the intention  of the wording in 
relation to money is to cover that belonging to another. 
When considering  this, Ive taken  into account  whether Avivas decision was fair given  the 
wording doesnt  qualify this. And I think it is. I say so because  the policy premium paid for 
the insurance wouldve been  representative of the risk Aviva wanted  to take. If theyd 
envisaged a greater risk- such as funding a claim for money belonging to another-  then I 
anticipate a higher  premium wouldve  been  payable, or Aviva might  have chosen not to 
insure that risk at all. Thats because the purpose of the policy is to protect H in respect of its 
own risks.  Taking on an additional risk- such as holding money for another,  whether thats 
for a Director or an employee,  isnt in my view something that Aviva  wouldve taken into 
account when  underwriting  this policy. So, whilst its unfortunate they didnt simply maintain 
their previous policy wording, I think it would be unfair to require them  to discharge Hs claim 
based on the construction of the present wording.
I know Mr F will find my decision disappointing  but for the reasons set out above, I dont 
think Aviva  did anything  wrong when declining Hs claim.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold Hs complaint against  Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F on behalf of 
H to accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2019. 
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2920652