K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Standard Life Assurance  Limited (Standard Life) has been sold to the 
Phoenix Group. Mr C has a pension with it and he feels his fund is now at risk due to this 
change.
background
Mr Cs told us that hes been a customer of Standard Life for some thirty years. Recently, he 
became aware  that Standard Life had sold its business to become part of the Phoenix  
Group.
For a number of reasons  Mr C was very unhappy  about this and he says Standard Life didnt 
let him know  in advance  of the sale. 
Mr C doesnt trust the Phoenix Group and doesnt want his pension to be held by it. Hed like 
compensation for the way hes been treated and the opportunity  to transfer  elsewhere  
without penalty.
Standard Life said it wouldnt  be upholding Mr Cs complaint, its spoken to him and written 
to him in some detail  outlining its answers  to his concerns. In summary,  it said that it had 
publically announced to the stock market  the proposed sale and had provided regularly 
updates. It also said that it had provided  updates on the proposed sale on its websites and 
answered customer queries on the matter.
It explained that as it stands  no changes  had been made to Mr Cs pension policy  with it. 
And it wouldnt agree to waiving its transfer penalty if Mr C chose to transfer away.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Standard Life had done anything  
wrong so he didnt think it should  be upheld.
Mr C disagreed and hes submitted  25 points of contention that he wishes  for an 
ombudsman to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont underestimate Mr Cs strength of feeling  on this matter.  Ive thought 
about all the points that hes made but with no discourtesy to Mr C intended,  I wont  be 
addressing all of these points individually.
The reason  for this is ultimately the answer  to Mr Cs complaint is that Im not in a position  to 
say that what Standard  Life has done  is wrong. This service is an informal  dispute resolution 
service. Where we think a business has made  an error or done  something wrong  we look to 
put the customer back in the position they wouldve been in had the error not occurred.
Mr Cs complaint points are all bound up in the fact that Standard Life sold its business to 
Phoenix Group. This sale will have been  approved by the regulator  as part of its role in 
regulating the UK financial market place.
Ref: DRN22059212So for Mr Cs complaint to be upheld  I need to conclude that Standard Life has done 
something wrong or made an error  here in essence Id have to say that the sale of the 
business to Phoenix  Group was unfair. But this has been looked  at by the appropriate bodies 
and the sale has been allowed to take place. So its not within my remit or that of this service  
to make a finding on this matter.
Mr C has said he wasnt told of the potential  sale and only found out after it had happened. 
However, Standard  Life did publically announce this to the stock market  and its said it 
provided information on its website. I appreciate Mr C wouldve liked to have been told 
directly about the potential sale but with the number of customers  affected, I dont think what  
Standard Life did was unreasonable. And Im not aware  of any requirement  for it to write 
directly to all its customers.
Standard Life has explained that no material changes  have been made  to Mr Cs pension  
plan as things  stand. So as Ive said because  its not within our role to comment on the sale 
and no material changes  have been  made to Mr Cs plan  there is very little I can add in 
relation to the points that Mr C has raised.
Thats not to say that I dont sympathise with Mr C and I understand why he is unhappy and 
concerned. But for the reasons explained I dont think Standard Life has done anything  
wrong and I dont think it needs to do anything to put things right.
I can see that Mr C has put a lot of time and effort into explaining his views on the sale and 
his unhappiness with this. So I appreciate he will be very unhappy  with my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2205921