K820x#14Complaint
Mr P is unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled his contents 
insurance claim.
Background
Mr P made a claim for some photographic equipment that was lost. When he made  the claim 
he gave RSA full details of the items  lost1 and the estimated replacement costs. RSA 
appointed a representative  to handle the claim on its behalf.  It took roughly three months for 
RSA to settle the claim.
Mr P complained about how the claim was handled eg delayed settlement, information he 
provided being ignored, failure to respond to emails  or phone calls.  He was also unhappy 
that RSA hadnt  answered several  questions  hed asked. Mr P also raised issues with the 
policy  premium not being  refunded  and legal cover not being removed.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which outlined why I thought  the complaint should  be upheld. 
The relevant  parts of my provisional decision are detailed below. These form part of my final 
decision.
Unanswered questions
RSA hadnt  answering a number of questions Mr P had asked  about  the handling of his 
claim eg why it felt it appropriate to investigate him for fraud for using the photography 
equipment for professional reasons; and why it provided him with incorrect  details of its 
office opening hours.
I explained that when deciding complaints about poor service I didnt usually investigate 
why certain things happened  or didnt happen  instead I looked at whether there was 
any poor service and whether the business  needed to do anything  to put things right.  I 
acknowledged that consumers sometimes wanted  explanations for certain things, but I 
rarely needed to know that in order to decide a complaint.
Although Id noted the things Mr P wanted an explanation for, I didnt think  they were 
needed in order  for me to decide  the complaint. I did nevertheless take what  had 
happened (and what didnt happen) into account when looking at how the overall claim 
was handled and considering the impact  that had on Mr P.
Delays
Mr Ps argument was essentially that RSA had all the relevant information  from the start 
of the claim, and had the same  information  when it settled the claim. So he didnt think  it 
needed to take as long as it did to settle the claim. I agreed with that argument.
I consider it reasonable for insurers  to carry out basic  checks when they receive  a claim. 
And I consider  it reasonable for insurers to carry out further checks  or investigations if 
something untoward might be apparent. But in this case, it wasnt entirely clear to me 
1 Apart  from a camera battery, which  he discovered  was missing the following day.
Ref: DRN27366102why it took so long for the claim  to settle.  It seemed to have been due to the combined 
effect of various  things  that happened   eg RSA not giving  full information about  the 
claim or the policy cover to the representative  it appointed; RSA deciding  to appoint an 
investigator; RSA trying  to settle the claim by providing Mr P with an incorrect  
replacement lens.
I didnt think there  was anything that stopped RSA from settling  the claim within three  to 
four weeks. So I thought RSA treated Mr P unfairly by taking  as long as it did to settle the 
claim because he was without the use of a lens for longer than he needed to be.
Legal expenses  insurance
RSA hadnt  actioned Mr Ps request for this cover to be removed from his policy.
The policy renewed each year on 5 May. Id seen an email  that Mr P sent to RSA on 
8 May 2018  where  he said At renewal I wish to cancel the Legal Expenses  cover  under 
the policy. Mr P said the renewal documents he received in 2019  still showed legal 
expenses insurance as part of the policy. So it looked like RSA hadnt cancelled or 
removed the cover from Mr Ps insurance.
To put this right I thought RSA should retrospectively remove  the legal expenses  
insurance from Mr Ps policy with effect  from 5 May 2018. It should  also refund the 
premium Mr P had paid for this cover since 5 May 2018, plus interest  at a rate of 8% 
simple per annum  (calculated from the date Mr P paid the premium).
Premium paid to specify the lens on the policy
The lens that was lost was specified on the policy. Mr P paid extra  premium  for this and 
he asked RSA to refund  the portion of the premium he paid from the date it was lost until 
the date it was replaced. He complained because  RSA hadnt responded to this request.
I didnt think RSA needed to refund any premium from the date the lens was lost to the 
date the policy renewed in 2018. That was because  by settling the claim and providing 
Mr P with a replacement lens RSA provided Mr P with the cover he paid for. In essence,  
RSA agreed to insure the lens for loss/damage that might occur during a 12-month 
period, and it met its obligations in that respect  when  the lens was lost. It didnt  matter  
that the lens was lost nine or so months into the 12-month policy.
However, as Mr P no longer owned the lens there was no need for it to be specified on 
the policy from 5 May 2018 (when it renewed). So any premium he paid to specify the 
lens beyond 5 May 2018 was essentially for nothing as there was no lens left for RSA to 
insure. But on the flipside, Mr P received  the replacement lens on 21 May 2018. And that 
lens would have  needed specifying  on the policy from that date.
To put things right I thought RSA should:
oremove the lost lens from the policy with effect  from 5 May 2018;
oadd the replacement lens to the policy as a specified item with effect  from 21 May 
2018; and
ore-calculate the premium based  on those two adjustments.
Ref: DRN27366103In addition, I thought RSA treated  Mr P unfairly  by not specifically responding to his 
request for a refund  of premium. I considered this in deciding  what, if any, compensation 
was warranted.
Compensation
I explained that I dont make  insurers pay compensation just because  they handled a 
claim poorly.  I only made them do so if the poor claim  handling impacted the consumer 
eg led to them suffering a financial loss, distress  or inconvenience.
I wasnt aware of any financial loss that Mr P suffered. But I was aware that the delay in 
settlement and the general way the claim was handled had an impact that wouldnt have 
happened if the claim had been settled promptly. Two examples were that Mr P had the 
upset of being without the use of the lens for specific occasions and the inconvenience of 
having to continually chase RSA and the representative for an update on the claim.
Overall, I concluded that £100 compensation was appropriate for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr P suffered because of RSAs handling of the claim and the delay in 
settling it.
Responses to my provisional decision
Overall Mr P was pleased that I intended  upholding his complaint. But he questioned why it 
was appropriate  for RSA to continue charging  the premium for the lens after it was lost. He 
said RSA could only insure property that existed and charge for that; and from the date of 
the claim the lens didnt  exist.
Mr P also felt it a shame that I couldnt  include  in my decision RSAs failure to explain  why 
he was investigated  for fraud and the continual incorrect information being  provided about 
RSAs opening  hours.  He questioned what incentive there was for RSA to correct  misleading 
information2.
RSA told us it had recently looked at Mr Ps complaint  about  the removal of the legal 
expenses insurance  and that it had emailed Mr P offering to refund the premium he paid for 
this from the renewal in 2018. It also said it sent Mr P further compensation of £75 (in 
addition to the £100 I had proposed) to make up for the interest on the legal expenses 
insurance refund,  the removal the old lens and addition  of the new lens, and the other 
service issues  he had experienced.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  from RSAs  response to my final decision that it has been corresponding with Mr P 
about some  of the issues I had looked  at. I dont think that affects my decision because  what  
RSA seems to have offered in respect of those issues is the same as, or more  than, what  I 
had considered fair.
2 Mr P also commented  on the Financial Ombudsman Services handling his complaint. But as that 
isnt relevant to the outcome  of his complaint against RSA I havent included his comments  in my 
decision.
Ref: DRN27366104Unanswered questions
Ive noted what  Mr P has said about me not including certain  things in my decision.  But as 
explained in my provisional decision,  the important thing for me in deciding a complaint isnt 
so much why something did or didnt happen,  but whether:
-a business  treated  a customer fairly
-a business  treating  a customer unfairly  had a negative impact on the consumer,  and
-theres something the business now needs  to do to put things right.
In deciding that in this case I dont  need to know why, for example, RSA investigated Mr P 
for fraud or why it provided  incorrect information.
Delays
Theres nothing further for me to consider in respect  of this issue.
Legal expenses  insurance
RSA seems to have now made an offer to resolve  this matter in line with my proposal.
Premium paid to specify the lens on the policy
Ive again noted what Mr P has said about  RSA continuing to charge a premium  for the lens 
after it had been  lost. However, Im not persuaded to change my mind. Mr P paid extra  
premium to specifically insure  the lens for its value  and RSA provided the full cover  paid for 
by settling the claim. The fact the lens was lost part way through  the policy period doesnt, in 
my view, change things.
I note, however, that part of RSAs £75 compensation offer was to make up for removal the 
old lens and the addition of the new lens.
Compensation
Theres nothing further for me to consider in respect  of this issue. I note however that RSA 
may already have  paid the £100 I suggested to Mr P.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
If it has not done so already, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
1.retrospectively remove the legal expenses insurance from Mr Ps policy  with effect 
from 5 May 2018; and refund the premium Mr P had paid for this cover since 5 May 
2018, plus interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum (calculated from the date Mr P 
paid the premium).
2.remove the lost lens from the policy with effect  from 5 May 2018; add the 
replacement lens to the policy as a specified  item with effect from 21 May 2018; and 
Ref: DRN27366105re-calculate the premium  to be paid by or refunded to Mr P based on those two 
adjustments.
3.pay Mr P £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he suffered 
because of RSAs  handling of the claim and the delay  in settling it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2736610