K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that a used car she acquired  via a hire purchase with FirstRand  Bank  
Limited (trading as MotoNovo) wasnt of satisfactory quality.   
background 
In August  2018  Miss G acquired  a used car from a dealership via a three year hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo. The car was around 11 years old and had a mileage of 85,000. 
Shortly after taking the car Miss G complained  to the garage  that the back seat moved when 
braking and wasnt secure, that there was white smoke coming from the exhaust  and the 
engine lacked power. The car was returned  to the dealership. 
The dealership refitted  the seat though Miss G had to use the car for two weeks  with the rear 
seat removed  while a part was ordered.  This repair fixed the problem. 
The dealership told Miss G that it would need  to investigate the engine issue  and after 
inspecting the car said that it had found  that the turbo pipe was cracked and needed to be 
replaced. The car was taken back in by the dealership and Miss G was provided with a 
courtesy car as a gesture  of goodwill. However, there was an issue  with the courtesy car that 
meant it had to be returned.  
There was a slight delay  to the car being returned  to Miss G as it was discovered  the new 
pipe had popped off when the car was being driven to her home by the dealership. 
However this was then fixed and the car was given back  to Miss G. 
Miss G says that within a couple of the weeks of the car being returned  she asked the 
dealership if it would look at the car again  as she was repeatedly  having  to add oil and 
coolant to it. She says the dealership stalled about when it would take the car back but 
agreed to do so at the end of November  2018. 
Miss G says that the dealership arranged for the car to be moved  to another  garage for the 
repairs but that this second garage contacted her to say it couldnt find a fault with the car. 
She was unhappy  that the car had been  moved  and with the opinion  this garage had given. 
It was then agreed with the dealership for Miss G to obtain a second opinion  from a local 
garage. 
Miss G says that the local garage  said the car had a severe oil leak and a turbo  fault. She 
said she was told the car required a new turbo. The dealership agreed to fit a reconditioned 
part to the car but she was unhappy with this response and complained to MotoNovo. 
MotoNovo contacted the dealership in January 2019 and was told that the car had now been 
repaired and returned to Miss G. 
However, Miss G contacted MotoNovo a short time later to complain that there  were  still 
problems with the car. She said she was experiencing  issues  with the power of the car on 
the motorway. MotoNovo  arranged  for the car to be independently inspected. 
The independent engineer said they had found the car to be mechanically sound  and 
considered that loss of power reported by Miss G was likely to be due to the original  turbo 
over boosting the engine. 
Ref: DRN28251612The independent engineer noted that the coolant was below minimum level but couldnt  
locate a leak. However they said they were able to detect a sweet  smell which  was 
possibly the anti-freeze leaking and this required  further investigation. 
The independent engineer concluded  that although the car was not currently  fault free it was 
unlikely the issue  with the coolant leak would have been present at the point of sale.  They 
said the car had been driven  for 7,500  miles when inspected in January 2019  and that if the 
leak had been  present  since  the inception of the agreement then it would have been picked 
up sooner. The independent engineer said that this fault was one of the risks and costs 
associated with a used vehicle which would require ongoing repairs  and maintenance to 
keep the vehicle serviceable. Issues  were likely to develop without being foreseen and 
without having  been pre-existing.  
Miss G wasnt satisfied  with the independent engineers report  and complained to MotoNovo 
about the cars condition. There was also a breakdown in the relationship between Miss G 
and the dealership which said it was unable to assist her further. 
MotoNovo didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint.  It said that based on the conclusions of the 
independent engineer the coolant  leak was unlikely to have been  present since the point of 
sale. 
Miss G disagreed with MotoNovos decision and complained  to this service. She said she 
wanted the car repaired at no cost to her and compensation for being provided  with faulty 
courtesy cars while hers was being  repaired.  
During the investigation into her complaint MotoNovo agreed to have the car inspected for a 
second time by an independent engineer. 
This second report said that the engineer had noted  an oil leak but there  was no evidence  of 
an external coolant  leak.  The independent  engineer said that there were some  steam  
vapours from the rear exhaust that had a sweet smell and it was possible there was an 
internal seepage in the engine due to the head  gasket.  They  said the engine  would require 
further dismantling for investigation. The independent engineer said that this type of issue 
was progressive but often developed in a 2,000 mile window. 
The independent engineer also said that they considered the condition of the car was 
commensurate with its age and mileage. And taking into account, that at the point theyd  
carried out their inspection, the car had been driven for 12,800 miles since  the point of sale 
they considered  this fault was unlikely  to have been  pre-existing but was a general 
maintenance issue.
Ref: DRN28251613Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Miss Gs complaint  should  be upheld.  He said hed 
seen Miss G had had issues with the car from the outset but for her to be entitled to reject 
the car hed need to be satisfied that the faults had been present at the point of sale.
Our adjudicator said a brand new car would be expected to be fault-free but a used car 
would be expected to have some  degree of wear and tear. He said age, mileage and driving  
style were all things  that would have to be taken into account when considering  the quality of 
a used car. 
Our adjudicator said at the point of sale this car had been 11 years  old with a mileage of 
85,000 and had an MOT so our adjudicator  said he was satisfied it had been roadworthy.  
Miss G had ben able to drive it for a further  12,500 miles.
Our adjudicator said looking  at the repair invoices he thought they were typically  as a result  
of wear and tear. And although the car was currently faulty it didnt automatically mean the 
car was inherently faulty. He said under the agreement  it was Miss Gs responsibility to 
maintain and repair the car.
Our adjudicator said looking  at the evidence it appeared that the issues with the car had 
arisen over time. He said had they developed  within a shorter time frame,  or if Miss G hadnt 
been able to achieve the additional  mileage, then it would have been more  likely they had 
been present  at the point  of sale. He said he thought the car had been of satisfactory  quality 
at the point of sale.
Our adjudicator said hed seen Miss G had been disappointed about  the quality of the 
courtesy cars loaned  to her when her car was being repaired. But he said as Miss G had 
been kept mobile throughout  he thought  MotoNovo had acted fairly. He also said there was 
no contractual obligation for a courtesy car to be provided.
Miss G disagreed with our adjudicators view. She said she wanted to reject  the car and 
there were still problems arising  from the turbo. Miss G said she had reported faults with the 
car within a few days of acquiring it and disagreed that the issues  had arisen through  wear 
and tear. Miss G said she had taken care of the car and had been  upset by the dealers 
attitude.
As parties  werent able to agree the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The finance agreement, which in this case is a hire purchase agreement,  is a regulated 
consumer  credit agreement. And this service is able to consider  complaints relating to it. 
MotoNovo is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and so is 
responsible for a complaint  about  their quality.
The Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  says  that under  a contract  to supply  goods  there  is an 
implied term that "the quality of the goods  is satisfactory".
Ref: DRN28251614And the relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard  that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, price  and all other  relevant circumstances. So, in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant  circumstances  to take into account might  include 
things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicle's history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition  
and other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish,  freedom from 
minor  defects, safety, and durability.  As set out above, the car was 11 years old and had a 
mileage of 85,000  at the point of sale. This is not the same  as a new car which would be 
expected to be fault-free. I think a reasonable person would expect issues of wear and tear 
to arise with this car over time meaning  there would be maintenance and repair costs to 
cover for the owner. 
Miss G complained to the dealership about  the car within a relatively short  time,  and this led 
to repairs to the seat and turbo.  I think its reasonable to say Miss G accepted these repairs.  
Ive seen that Miss G was disappointed about  the quality of the courtesy cars provided  but 
there no obligation for the dealership to provide these and Ive seen that she was kept 
mobile for the majority  of the time.
After the car was returned Miss G was unhappy at the cars performance, and she was also 
finding that she had to top up the oil and coolant regularly. MotoNovo arranged for the car to 
be independently inspected.
The independent engineer did not find the car was fault-free although he didnt note any oil 
leaks and found  the earlier repair to the turbo  to have  been satisfactory. They  said the lack 
of power experienced by Miss G was likely  due to the original turbo  over-boosting the 
engine.
 However, the independent engineer did find there was a sweet  smell coming  from the car 
but was unable to locate  any coolant  leak. They advised that there  may be an issue with the 
cylinder head which required further  investigation, but said that due to the number of miles 
the car had been driven since  the point of sale (7,500) this was unlikely to have been 
present at the point of sale or issues with driving  the car would have  arisen sooner. The 
independent engineer concluded that the costs of any repair  work  would be associated with 
owning a used car and the ongoing repairs and maintenance that were required to keep 
such a vehicle serviceable.
Miss G didnt  agree with the independent  engineers conclusions  and a second independent 
report was arranged by MotoNovo which was carried out in May 2019.  This engineer again 
noted a slightly  sweet smell  from the exhaust  fumes and concluded that there  may be an 
internal seepage of the coolant and that it was likely  there was an issue  with the head 
gasket that required  further investigation by dismantling the engine.  
However, the independent engineer concluded  that when looking at the total miles that had 
been driven since the point of sale, namely  12,500  (Miss G having driven a further 5,000 
miles by the time of this inspection) the fault with the car was very unlikely  to have been 
present since Miss G had acquired the car. The independent engineer  said the issue with 
the car was general maintenance and repair orientated.
Ref: DRN28251615Miss G says that there  have been issues  with the car since  she acquired it and Ive seen 
that the car has had some  repairs carried out already. I accept it wasnt fault-free when  she 
acquired it but Im satisfied on the evidence that Ive seen that these issues  (the seats and 
the turbo) were repaired  and that Miss G accepted those  repairs.  So, I dont think it would 
be reasonable for Miss G to now reject  the car for those past issues.
I also accept the car is not fault free now but I think its reasonable to expect a car of this 
age and mileage  to need repairs for parts that have worn out over time due to use. Ive seen 
that Miss G has been able to add a further  12,500 miles to the odometer.  And while I 
appreciate Miss G says there has been an issue with the coolant  needing  topping  up for 
several months and that an oil leak has been present I think  its reasonable for me to take 
account of the evidence  that has been  provided.
 Ive seen two reports  from independent engineers that have both identified similar issues  
with the suspected internal leaking of the coolant, and both have said the car couldnt  have  
been used as much as it had if the fault had been  present from the point  of sale.  I havent  
seen any evidence from another  engineer that disagrees with these reports conclusions.
Ive seen that Miss G says the car has developed  further  problems with the turbo  but I 
havent seen any evidence about  that. If Miss G believes the cars turbo was poorly repaired 
then she will need to make a fresh complaint to MotoNovo about that to allow  it to 
investigate first. 
So, for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint. Im satisfied from 
the evidence Ive seen that the current cause of the leaking  coolant  was not present or 
developing at the point of sale. I also think that the issues that were present when Miss G 
acquired the car have been  repaired and accept the opinion of the independent engineers 
that the car was of satisfactory quality for its age and mileage.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2825161