K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that MYJAR Limited (Myjar)  irresponsibly  gave her loans which  she 
couldnt afford to pay back.
background
This complaint is about four loans Myjar provided to Mrs C between  November 2017 and 
February 2018. They were set up to be paid back by way of 3, 6 or 12 monthly  instalments. 
All of the loans  were repaid early. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments
Amount Repayment
1 17/11/2017 28/11/2017 3 £100.00 £54.43
2 01/12/2017 03/01/2018 6 £825.00 £245.67
3 03/01/2018 31/01/2018 6 £1,150.00 £338.75
4 02/02/2018 26/02/2018 12 £2,050.00 £309.58
Mrs C said that this unaffordable lending caused  a debt spiral, leading to repeat borrowing 
and it made  her already poor financial  situation worse. 
In its final response letter  Myjar  said it believed that the checks  it carried out before each 
loan were both proportional and adequate and based on the information  it held at the time, 
these loans were affordable for Mrs C. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and said it wasnt unfair for Myjar to have provided  
loans 1 to 3, but loan 4 shouldnt have been  lent to Mrs C. 
He said (briefly)  that by loan 4, Mrs C had shown signs that her borrowing history  indicated 
she was struggling  to repay some of her previous  loans. Also, the amount  being borrowed 
was increasing each time - and this was her fourth loan from Myjar in less than three  
months. In these circumstances, our adjudicator  thought  there was a significant risk Mrs C 
wouldve been unable  to sustainably meet her repayments for this loan. He recommended 
steps Myjar should take to put things  right for Mrs C. 
Myjar didnt accept our adjudicators view and said it lacked detail and reasoning. It asked  for 
an ombudsman to review  the complaint so the case comes to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs C could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. 
Ref: DRN28216062These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Myjar 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Mrs C could  sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.  
Myjar has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mrs C. It asked Mrs C for details  
of her income and normal expenditure. And Myjar carried out checks on Mrs Cs credit  file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Myjar to give Mrs C loans 1 to 3 on the 
basis of the information it had recorded about  her income and outgoings. It was early  in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Myjar to agree to lend. 
As Mrs C hasnt  raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to 
loans 1 - 3, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
So I will focus on the loan which  remains  in dispute  loan 4.
Ref: DRN28216063Given that what Mrs C was saying  about her financial circumstances appeared at odds  with 
her borrowing history, I agree with our adjudicator  that by now,  Myjar shouldve realised that 
she was struggling  to manage  her debt. 
Mrs C repaid the £1,150 shed borrowed on loan 3 the same month that she took it out. This 
was the third time in a row that shed  arranged a loan to be repaid over a number  of months  
and then paid it back much more quickly - before  taking out a new loan soon after.  
Mrs C took out loan 2 three days after repaying  loan 1 and loan 3 on the same day that loan 
2 was settled. She applied for loan 4 just two days after repaying loan 3. And I can see that 
the trend was for her to ask for increasing  amounts over longer periods  a clear sign that 
Mrs Cs indebtedness was generally  increasing unsustainably.
I think this track record showed that she wasnt responsibly managing  her money  - it looks  
like Mrs C couldnt afford to pay back what she had borrowed without borrowing again. 
Although loan 4 looked  affordable  on the figures  Mrs C gave, it was clear that her history 
with Myjar suggested  this wasnt the case.  And her borrowing pattern of repay-  quickly  
borrow again is suggestive of borrowing elsewhere  and using  multiple short term lending 
accounts. 
I think that Myjar shouldnt  have provided loan 4 to Mrs C without a more  thorough  check of 
her financial  circumstances to see if the loan really  was sustainably  affordable for her.
Myjar hasnt shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check  
before agreeing loan 4.
If Myjar had asked more  probing questions, and specifically enquired  about  other  short term 
lending, it shouldve found out that Mrs C had a well established record  of borrowing 
significant amounts  on other payday loans   suggesting that shed  become  dependent  on 
this sort of credit and she wasnt using these high cost loans as intended to cover a 
temporary shortfall or an unexpected  one off cost. So Myjar shouldve  realised that further 
lending was unsustainable.
Ive taken into account that Myjar  says it requested bank  statements when Mrs C made a 
further application after paying  loan 4 (which it declined after a review  of the bank 
statements). But this doesnt affect my decision on loan 4. 
I dont think it was reasonable  for Myjar to think that it was likely Mrs C would be able 
sustainably to repay loan 4  so it shouldnt have provided this loan.
 For these reasons, Im upholding  Mrs Cs complaint about  loan 4.
Ref: DRN28216064putting things right  what Myjar needs to do
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs C towards  interest, fees and 
charges on loan 4, but not including anything  already refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mrs C which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs C originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C) Pay Mrs C the total of A plus B.
D) Remove any adverse  information  it has put on Mrs Cs credit file in relation to loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint about  loan 4 and direct MYJAR Limited (Myjar) to put things 
right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2821606