K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Barclays Bank Plc blocked and then closed her accounts. She says 
Barclays took too long to return her money and shed  like compensation. 
background
Miss D had four accounts with Barclays. On the 21 September 2017  one payment of 
£14,400 was credited  to Miss Ds personal  account. On this date, as part of its security 
processes Barclays blocked Miss Ds accounts and asked her for information  about the 
origin of the money coming into her account.  
Miss D gave Barclays a letter from the payee and a copy of a provisional offer for a Masters 
programme as evidence  of the source  of the funds. Miss D said the money  had come from a 
relative to pay for her tuition fees and to set up a business. Barclays  werent satisfied with 
the information provided so didnt release her funds. 
In October  2017 Barclays wrote to Miss D to let her know it had decided to close her 
personal accounts. They asked her to make alternative banking  arrangements. In January 
2018 further evidence was provided to Barclays from the sending bank and Barclays 
released the funds.  
Miss D complained to Barclays  that the money  had been blocked unfairly and the 
withholding of the funds  caused her distress.
In response Barclays said it had acted in line with its legal and regulatory  obligations when  it 
blocked Miss Ds account. So it didnt offer any compensation for this or reopen Miss Ds 
account. Miss D disagreed, so she brought her complaint  to us.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint. She thought  Barclays  did everything  they 
needed to. Barclays  accepted what our investigator  said but Miss D disagreed. Saying:
-Barclays didnt follow the proper procedures before blocking and closing her account
-she was emotionally  and financially impacted by Barclays actions
As Miss D didnt agree, its been passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so I broadly  agree with the 
investigator. 
account block:
Barclays is required to have measures  in place to review payments. As part of its review 
process Barclays are entitled to ask a customer for more information. And its not for this 
service to interfere with the banks processes. Our role is to see if the bank has made any 
mistakes and the put the customer back in the position theyd have been in if the mistake 
hadnt happened. 
I can see that Barclays wrote to Miss D to let her know  what it was doing. And spoke to her 
on a number of occasions to tell her it needed  to see proof of her entitlement  to the money. 
Ref: DRN27494782So I think Barclays kept Miss D informed about  what it was doing, and what information it 
needed from her. 
Miss D says she was financially impacted by Barclays actions. So Ive also thought about 
whether the information Miss D gave Barclays was sufficient  to allow  them to release the 
funds  and I dont think it was. Im satisfied that once Barclays  received confirmation from 
the sending bank as to the origin of the funds  they released the money to Miss D. 
Im satisfied that Barclays were acting  in line with its legal and regulatory  obligations  when 
reviewing Miss Ds account and asking  questions.  So I dont think  its done  anything wrong in 
blocking Miss Ds account. 
account closure:
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account. 
The terms and conditions  of Miss Ds account  confirm Barclays can close the account 
immediately under certain circumstances. I think considering what  happened  in this case its 
fair and reasonable Barclays took the action it did. And it decided  to close Miss Ds 
accounts. I can see that Barclays wrote to Miss D in October 2017 to let her know it was 
closing her accounts. So Im satisfied  Barclays  has complied with the terms and conditions 
of the account.  
I acknowledge Miss Ds frustrations with the situation relating to her accounts, but I can see 
no basis on which I might  make  an award against Barclays given that I dont think  it failed 
properly follow its own procedures when it closed her account.
  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2019.  
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2749478