K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that ReAssure Limited  didnt  meet a claim he made  under his critical 
illness policy. The policy  expired  on 23 May 2015.  Mr B believes  that if hes not covered by 
the policy then it was mis-sold to him.
background
Mr B made a claim in early 2017. ReAssure  declined his claim  on the basis  that Mr B didnt 
meet the policy definition  for total permanent disability benefit  (TPD)  to be paid. Mr B 
referred his complaint here. Our investigator  didnt  think that ReAssure had done anything  
wrong. Mr B appealed.  He didnt accept that his policy  was for business cover. Mr B also felt 
that his consultant would be able to confirm that he was not capable  of getting full time 
employment whilst the policy  was in force.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 November 2018. My provisional findings were as 
follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Mr B suffers from an incurable and permanent condition.  Mr B says 
that his condition commenced several  years ago  this is in not in dispute either. However 
his condition isnt listed in the conditions  for which he could make  a critical illness claim. 
Therefore ReAssure assessed his claim under the benefit that he could potentially claim for 
 TPD benefit. 
This benefit becomes payable only in certain  circumstances. Specifically the policy says:
The Policy  Schedule states whether  this benefit applies and the life assured to whom  it 
relates. Subject  to the terms of this policy condition, we will pay the Critical Illness  Cover  
benefit If the life assured is diagnosed as suffering from one of the specified conditions  or
undergoes surgery for a specified  condition.  
If the life assured is under age 60 and in paid employment when the event producing  the 
disability occurs, the life assured must  be totally and permanently incapable of doing  the 
work for which they were employed.
If the life assured is aged 60 or over but under  age 65 and in paid employment when the 
event producing the disability occurs, the life assured must be totally  and permanently 
incapable of doing any kind of paid employment.
It is not easy to determine precisely  when the event causing Mr Bs disability occurred as his 
condition is progressive and took time for his consultant  to diagnose. But Mr Bs policy  came  
to an end in 2015. He was still working until 2016.  For benefit to be payable before the age 
of 60 (that would have  been before 2012) he must  have been totally and permanently 
incapable of doing the work for which he was employed. For benefit to have been payable  
between the ages of 60 and 65 he must have been totally and permanently incapable of 
doing any kind of paid employment. It is clear  that a diagnosis  alone is not sufficient for total 
and permanent disability  benefit to be paid.
Ref: DRN21051282I accept the evidence from Mr Bs consultant which confirms it is not possible for him to work 
in his current capacity  and it is very unlikely that he will be able to work again in any 
capacity. But this report is dated  January 2016, by which time the policy  was no longer in 
force. I dont doubt  that Mr B had symptoms of his condition  prior to the end date of his 
policy; the medical evidence here isnt challenged. Likewise  I accept  that he may have been 
advised to cease work. But Mr B didnt do this and was still in employment  at the termination 
of his policy in 2015. This being  so it would be hard to conclude  that Mr B was incapable  of 
any kind of paid employment at that time,  or earlier.
In these circumstances Im presently satisfied that ReAssure  have  fairly  assessed Mr Bs 
claim and have not treated him unfairly  in concluding that he did not meet the policy 
definition. 
Mr B has complained that the policy was mis-sold to him. I cant consider  this against 
ReAssure, because it didnt sell the policy to him. It is responsible for the policy  wording 
though. The policy is a Business Protection  Plan. I find the relevant part of the policy 
wording is clear, and does explain the cover  available under the policy clearly. There is no 
reason to believe that the benefit wouldnt  have  been paid had Mr B met the critical illness  
definition whilst the policy was in force. 
Mr B remained unhappy  with my provisional findings  but made no specific  representations 
with regard to his claim being  declined. He thought that a judge would reach a different 
conclusion. However  he did repeat previous  submissions he had made  about  the sale of the 
policy by the bank.
ReAssure made no further comment regarding the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has come  to light that although the policy was sold by a bank, ReAssure Limited took over 
responsibility for the sale of the policy. It follows that my provisional  finding that I couldnt 
consider the matter against ReAssure is incorrect. We will therefore consider the sale of the 
policy separately. This decision only deals with the complaint regarding Mr Bs claim. 
As neither Mr B nor ReAssure have  made  further  submissions in this regard I have no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings, which are set out above.
I remain of the opinion that ReAssure  fairly  assessed Mr Bs claim and have not treated him 
unfairly in concluding that he did not meet the policy definition.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  findings  and repeated above my final decision is 
that I dont  uphold Mr Bs complaint about ReAssure Limiteds assessment of his claim. 
His complaint about the mis-sale  of the policy will be considered separately.
Ref: DRN21051283Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2105128