K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a buy-to-let mortgage Mr H used to have with West Bromwich 
Mortgage Company  Limited. The mortgaged property was repossessed and sold because  of 
arrears. Mr H complains  that West Bromwich sold it for less than it was worth. Hes now 
being pursued for the resulting shortfall.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think West Bromwich had done anything wrong. He said, in summary 
that West Bromwich had sold the house  for a price that was consistent  with the professional  
opinion of the valuers it consulted before putting the house on the market.  Mr H has asked 
for his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive not gone into great  detail in setting  out what the complaints  about. Thats  deliberate; 
ours is an informal service  for resolving disputes between financial businesses  and their 
customers. Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.
There were other aspects to Mr Hs complaint about what  happened  before the property was 
sold. An ombudsman colleague  issued  a decision in November 2019 on the scope of our 
investigation into Mr Hs complaint. She concluded  that the sale price  achieved for the 
property in possession  was the only part of the complaint we could consider. So theres no 
ambiguity, my final decision doesnt  revisit  the conclusions of my fellow ombudsman on our 
remit. I deal here with the merits  of the complaint about the sale price  achieved.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If the available evidence is incomplete  
and/or contradictory,  we reach our findings on what we consider  is most  likely to have 
happened, on the balance  of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts  use in 
civil cases.
West Bromwichs  duty was to sell the property for the best price  achievable  within a 
reasonable period of time (my italics).  It may be a rather subjective test but the approach we 
take, in essence,  is that a lender shouldnt sell for too low a price to achieve  a quick  sale nor 
unduly delay a sale (thus potentially adding further to the borrowers interest costs) to 
achieve an unrealistically high price.
Its about finding a balance between  the two, and to ensure that happens, lenders are 
required to obtain  a minimum of two independent  valuations from suitably-qualified 
professionals, and then to market the property  with a view to achieving a selling price at, or 
Ref: DRN22351812close to, the valuations provided  by those independent professionals. In the case of Mr Hs 
property, Im satisfied thats  what West Bromwich  did.
The highest  of the valuations West Bromwich  received was £69,995, the lowest  was 
£65,000. The property  was marketed in December 2017 at £69,995. Offers were  received, 
but no sale resulted  from them. Eventually, with the asking price having been  reduced to 
£65,000, West Bromwich received an offer of £63,000, which was then increased to 65,000.  
That was in May 2018, and West Bromwich accepted it. 
I think that decision was reasonable.  Ultimately, any property is only worth what someone is 
willing to pay for it at any given time. Here, a sale was achieved  at a price  within  the original 
valuation range that had been  provided  five months  earlier. Given  the timeframe,  I consider 
the sale was completed  at the best price achievable, bearing in mind  that the mortgage 
continued to accrue  interest until the sale was completed.
My remit  doesnt extend to questioning  the content of the reports. These  were  the 
professional opinions of the parties West Bromwich  was required to consult. It was entitled to 
rely on those opinions when deciding how much  to try and sell the property for. 
Putting all of the above together, my overall  conclusion is that the shortfall West Bromwich is 
seeking is a valid debt for which it can fairly hold Mr H liable, and can fairly seek repayment 
proposals from him.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.  
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2235181