K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Shop Direct Finance Company  Limited (SDF) wrongly recorded a late 
payment entry on her credit file.
Mrs A is represented in this complaint by her husband.
background
Mrs A says the account statement  SDF sent her in December  2017 was late and it didnt  
contain a due date. She says the contractual payment date each  month isnt clear in the 
terms of her credit agreement. And she says the statement she received in January 2018 
incorrectly stated her direct debit payment had been taken.
So, Mrs A says she wants SDF to remove the missing payment marker it put on her credit 
file.
SDF says the terms of Mrs As account  make clear  that statements will be sent every 28 
days, the minimum payment due date will be shown on each statement and it will be 20 days 
after the date of the statement.
SDF also says Mrs As statement dated 23 December 2017  shows a minimum payment of 
£81 was due to be paid by 15 January 2018. It says on that date it attempted to take the 
payment due by direct  debit, but it was returned unpaid the following day. It says a £15 
charge was applied to Mrs As account  as a result of the unpaid  direct debit payment. And it 
says a late payment  marker was recorded with the credit reference agencies to reflect  this 
missed payment.  
Our investigator thought Mrs As complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs A disagreed with the investigators conclusions.  So, the matters  been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs As complaint and Ill explain why.
I see Mrs A is concerned that although  her account terms and conditions say the minimum 
payment is to be made 20 days after the statement date, they dont list a specific date each 
month by which  payments  must  be made.
In my experience its rare for an actual  payment  date to be specified in account terms and 
conditions. And I think the wording  Ive referred  to makes it sufficiently clear when payments 
must be made. 
I also see Mrs As raised the related point  that the absence of an express reference to 
calendar days means the terms and conditions can be reasonably  interpreted  as meaning 
payments must be made within 20 working days, or that there is at least ambiguity  about that 
matter. But I think the word days is reasonably interpreted as meaning  calendar days  in 
Ref: DRN29599652the absence of wording explicitly indicating something different is intended,  for example by 
using the term working days.
In addition, I see the first page of Mrs As December 2017 account  statement lists the 
minimum payment due of £81 and it goes on to state Your payment of £81 will be taken 
automatically from your account by direct debit on 15 Jan 18. My understanding  is that 
similar wording  has been used on each  of the other monthly account statements  Mrs As 
received since opening  her account in 2016.  
So, Im satisfied SDF gave Mrs A sufficiently clear  information that she needed  to ensure it 
received a payment of not less than £81 from her by 15 January 2018. And the information 
Ive seen indicates when SDF attempted to collect the minimum payment  by direct debit on 
15 January Mrs As bank  returned it unpaid due to there being insufficient funds in her 
account.
I note Mrs As also unhappy as she believes SDF delayed sending  her an email to let her 
know her monthly statement had been produced. The information Ive seen  indicates  the 
statements dated  23 December 2017 and an email notifying her of it was generated on 24 
December but it was received by Mrs A on 26 December. 
It appears the delay  of three days may have been  due to the time of year. But SDFs told us 
its records show Mrs A didnt log into her online account between  the statement date and 16 
January in any event.  And I havent seen  anything to lead me to conclude the short delay  in 
SDF notifying Mrs A that her statement had been  produced caused or contributed to the 
situation shes complained about.
I see Mrs A subsequently brought her account  up to date. But financial businesses are 
required to report accurate information  about  their customers  accounts  to the credit 
reference agencies.  And I dont  think  SDF did anything wrong  in reporting the late payment 
thats given rise to this complaint.      
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mrs As complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs As complaint against  Shop Direct Finance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  4 May 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2959965