K821x#15complaint
Mr B s representative has complained about the advice  Facts & Figures  Financial Planners  
Ltd (Facts & Figures) gave Mr B in 2011  to transfer  his existing pension arrangements to a 
Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP)  to facilitate an investment in Harlequin  property. 
background to the complaint
In June 2011 Mr B was aged 40 and was referred  to Facts & Figures by his mortgage  
adviser to get advice  on transferring his existing pension plans to a Self-Invested  Personal  
Pension (SIPP). This would then allow him to invest in Harlequin  property.  
On 29 June 2011 the business issued a Suitability Report to Mr B. This set out that Mr B 
apparently had decided that he had discussed  the possibility of using his pension plans to 
invest in the Harlequin overseas property scheme.  Facts & Figures  recorded  that it was told 
by Mr B that he wished  to go ahead with this investment.  Mr B needed Facts & Figures to set 
up a SIPP  to facilitate  this investment.
The report  noted  that Facts & Figures had:
Not carried out a full fact find
Not received details  of Mr Bs circumstances at the time.
Pointed out that the use of a single asset  class (overseas property) was not a 
strategy that it would  recommend. 
Been  unable to investigate  past performance of the proposed investment
Not looked  into the suitability of the proposed investments.
Found  a SIPP provider willing to accept  the proposed investment in Harlequin
.
At the time Mr M had four pension plans with a total transfer  value of over £35,000. These 
included two personal pension plans with a total value of about £19,000 and two deferred  
pension benefits  from former employers which had a total transfer value of about  £16,000.  
Mr B was interested  in investing  in Harlequin properties. Mr B would be required to pay a 
deposit of £33,000 within 90 days of paying  a reservation fee of £1,000.
Facts & Figures  reviewed  the proposal  from Mr B and advised  him that he should not 
transfer to the new SIPP  so that he could then invest in Harlequin Property. It noted that 
Mr B was aged 40
He was self-employed.
Mr B had two personal  pensions  and deferred pension scheme benefits in two former 
employers pension  schemes.
Facts and Figures was aware  that Mr B wished to invest in Harlequin  property  having  had 
discussions with a different unregulated business.
Facts and Figures stated that it was only willing to arrange the transaction  if Mr B signed  an 
insistent customer form. This set out clearly that investing in a single asset  class  was very 
high risk and was not an investment strategy it would recommend. To facilitate the overseas 
property purchase Mr B needed  to switch two personal pensions and transfer the value of 
two occupational pension scheme  benefits to a new self-invested personal  pension (SIPP).
Ref: DRN23621102Mr B signed  the required Insistent Customer  Authorisation Form on 29 June 2011 and 
£33,000 was then invested  in the Harlequin  property scheme  which subsequently failed.
Mr Bs current representative raised a complaint  with Facts & Figures who rejected it on the 
basis that it had told Mr B not to transfer  to the SIPP and to invest  in Harlequin. However the 
business noted that Mr B had ignored its advice and he was therefore treated as an insistent 
customer. Mr B had signed  the insistent customer form. This recorded that Mr B was 
proceeding against its advice not to invest  in Harlequin property.
As Facts & Figures rejected the complaint the matter was referred to this service where an 
adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He said Facts  & Figures  gave advice about the switch 
and the transfer  of Mr Bs pensions to a new SIPP. In doing so it needed to consider the 
proposed investment. If the investment was unsuitable then the recommendation to switch 
and transfer the pensions  to facilitate the investment would also be unsuitable.
The adjudicator said if Facts & Figures had understood the intended investment it would 
have been aware  Mr B couldnt complete the purchase. The initial  payment of £33,000 would 
be followed  by further stage payments at later stages of construction.  The total purchase  
price was £110,000.  The value of all the four pensions  received in the SIPP  totalled  
£35,972.28. Mr B had no other funds to pay the remaining instalments on the property 
development. Therefore the proposed investment was unaffordable for Mr B.
The adjudicator noted in relation to one of the two occupational pension schemes benefits 
that an investment  return of 8.2%  pa would be required just to match  the deferred benefits 
being given up in the scheme. Facts & Figures stated it was unable to complete an 
assessment of a possible transfer of the benefits from the second scheme before the 
investment deadline.
The adjudicator stated, knowing the chances of exceeding the required 8.2% return needed 
on the one OPS transfer were low and not having  the information  to assess the other OPS 
transfer meant it was unsuitable for the business to recommend the two OPS  transfers.  He 
said considering  that Mr B couldnt fund the full purchase of the Harlequin  property the OPS 
benefits shouldnt  have been transferred. He stated  Facts & Figures  ought to have refused to 
facilitate the transfer.
Facts & Figures  disagreed and said it was clear Mr B was proceeding against its advice. The 
business argued Mr B had already  decided  to invest in Harlequin property having received 
advice from another  business before he was referred to them.  Facts & Figures investigated 
the market and recommended a suitable SIPP  to meet the objective  that he instructed them 
to carry out.
Facts & Figures  argued the regulations did not state  it must  advise  on the underlying  
investment. Therefore, it didnt have full details  of the investment Mr B had selected. It noted  
that Mr B had decided  about the future investment in Harlequin without its involvement.
Facts & Figures  also noted  Mr B had signed  its insistent customer form accepting 
responsibility about going against its advice to invest in Harlequin. 
The adjudicator reviewed the business response but didnt change his opinion,  he reiterated  
the recommendations from the business  were to switch and transfer  Mr Bs pensions  to a 
SIPP to facilitate the investment in Harlequin. The only reason given for the recommendation 
to switch and transfer the pensions was to facilitate the intended investment.
Ref: DRN23621103The adjudicator noted that when a financial adviser recommends a SIPP  knowing that the 
customer will transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an 
overseas property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the proposed  investment 
must form part of the advice. If, taking into account  the individual  circumstances  of the 
customer, the proposed investment is unsuitable then the advice  to set up a SIPP is also 
inappropriate.
The adjudicator said the deposit  for the Harlequin investment was not made by Mr B as he 
could not afford it. He said the mortgage adviser paid the £1,000  reservation fee and said he 
would be reimbursed when Mr Bs investment went ahead. 
As there was no agreement the complaint has been referred  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  and largely  for the same  reasons. 
Facts & Figures as a regulated business has duties imposed  on it under the rules set out in 
the regulators handbook.
In particular COBS  2 and COBS 9, set out that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  (and 
previously by the Financial Services Authority), required the business to act in Mr Bs best 
interests, know its client and to give suitable advice.  
Facts & Figures  could  not do this without taking  into account the proposed  investment which 
the SIPP was put into place to facilitate. The only reason for the creation of the SIPP  and 
the transfers into it was to enable the overseas  Harlequin property investment to take place.
I would  also mention that the agent  who introduced Mr B to Facts  & Figures was 
unregulated. The Facts  & Figures adviser also knew this and therefore would have been 
aware that Mr B could not receive regulated financial advice from that individual. This 
should have indicated to Facts & Figures there was an even  greater need  to make sure 
that the overall  transaction of the transfer to the SIPP and investment to follow  was 
suitable for Mr B.
I note that in January 2013, (after the investment had been made)  the FSA issued an alert 
that reminded firms of the rules that were in force at the time of the sale of the SIPP.  The 
alert stated:
It has been brought  to the FSAs  attention that some  financial advisers  are giving 
advice to customers on pension transfers  or pension switches  without  assessing  
the advantages and disadvantages of investment  proposed to be held within the 
new pension. In particular, we have seen advisers moving customers  retirement 
savings to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in 
high risk, often illiquid unregulated investments (some which  may be in 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
The cases  we have  seen  tend to operate  under  a similar advice model. An 
introducer will pass customer details to an unregulated firm, which markets an 
Ref: DRN23621104unregulated investment (e.g. an overseas  property  development). When the 
customer expresses an interest in the unregulated investment, the customer is 
introduced to a regulated  financial adviser  to provide advice on a SIPP  capable  of 
holding the unregulated investment. The financial adviser does not give advice on 
the unregulated  investment, and says it is only providing advice on a SIPP  capable  
of holding  the unregulated investment. Sometimes the regulated financial adviser  
also assists the customer  to unlock  monies held in other investments so that the 
customer is able to invest in the unregulated  investment
 where a financial  adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will 
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an 
overseas property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas 
property investment must form part of the advice about whether the customer should 
transfer into the SIPP. If, taking into account  the individual circumstances  of the 
customer, the original  pension  product, including its underlying holdings, is more  
suitable for the customer then the SIPP is not suitable.
This is because if you give regulated advice  and the recommendation will enable 
investment in unregulated  items you cannot separate out the unregulated 
elements from the regulated elements.. 
This alert didnt make any changes to the regulations. It was not a new regulation that had 
not applied previously. It simply re-stated the principles that already  applied,  and which  
were in place in 2011 when the advice was given.
My decision  is not dependent on comments made  by the industry regulator as to the type of 
process Facts & Figures carried out to facilitate the investment. I take an independent  view 
based on the circumstances of the complaint and I am required  to take into account the 
rules, law and good  practice in place at the time to arrive at decision that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
However, my view is consistent with general  comments from the regulator about this type of 
process  that consideration should  be given, when advice is given to transfer to a SIPP, to 
the suitability of the overall  proposition  both the SIPP  and the investment to be taken out.
The regulators comments refer directly to the situation here  where advice is being given 
about a SIPP to invest in overseas property.  It said that where an adviser  recommends a 
SIPP knowing that the customer will sell current investments to fund an overseas property 
investment then the suitability of that investment must be taken into account.
Ref: DRN23621105I would  reiterate  that I do not agree that simply because the regulators alerts were  given 
after Facts  & Figures gave its advice  that they are irrelevant  all the alerts did was highlight 
the existing obligations which applied at the time when giving advice such as this. It was not 
setting out new standards  for businesses to follow.
So my view is that Facts & Figures did have to take into account and advise on the 
suitability of the specific investment as well as the overall arrangement  of SIPP.
Had it done so it would  have realised that the investment  was inappropriate and unaffordable 
for an investor such as Mr B. Mr B  has stated  that he was unaware that the Harlequin 
investment required  further payments of £27,500, £27,500, £16,500 and £5,500 would be 
payable at different  stages of completion  of the development. The total purchase price would 
be £110,000.  It appears  that neither Mr B nor Facts & Figures were aware of the future  
payments that would be required.
Given that Mr B did not have the funds to pay the £1,000 deposit required or to invest in 
a Harlequin property and had used  his pension provision to pay the first instalment would 
indicate that the proposed  investment in Harlequin was unsuitable for Mr B. In those  
circumstances the business should have refused to transact the business with Mr B. 
The business states that at the time of advice Mr B completed the fact find by himself.   
Mr B identified himself as having an aggressive attitude to risk. However I  note that Mr B 
had no other  assets to fall back on and in my opinion the advice from the business  
should have been do not transfer.
I have then looked at the detailed insistent customer form that was completed by Mr B on 
29 June 2011.  On this it noted  that one transfer value needed to grow at a rate of 8.2% 
and that it would be difficult for an investment  to consistently produce such returns.
The form went on to say that Mr B was going  to make other investments to secure his 
retirement income.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service has asked Mr B how he met the adviser and why he 
signed the insistent customer form.
Mr B explained that he was looking  at remortgaging in 2011 and it was during the 
discussions that took place that it was noted that he had four pension  plans. At that time 
the idea of investing in Harlequin was put to him by the adviser  from Facts  & Figures  and 
the mortgage adviser. He was asked to go into the offices and then had to sign a lot of 
papers that he did not have the time to read or consider properly. He was told that the 
investment in Harlequin was going  to provide  significant investment returns. It was a no 
lose situation.
Mr B has stated  that he was not an insistent customer  and he was relying on the adviser 
from Facts  and Figures to give him appropriate  pensions advice.
Having reviewed all of the submissions made and taking Mr Bs background into account 
I have concluded  that Mr B should  not have been  treated  by Facts & Figures  as an 
insistent customer.  He was working as a self-employed  tradesman  and was relying on 
the business for appropriate advice. 
Ref: DRN23621106I do not consider  that the business should  have  arranged  the investment in Harlequin when 
Mr B was an inexperienced investor  who could not afford it but who had been told by an 
unregulated introducer that the scheme  was great. In my opinion the business should  have 
refused to transact  the business.
There was no performance  history in respect of the investments. The Harlequin 
investments might reasonably be described as sophisticated and/or complex investments. 
They exposed investors to significant risks; especially in light of the lack of any consumer 
protection. 
Facts & Figures  ought  reasonably to have examined the ability  of Mr B to withstand a loss 
of the proposed investment in Harlequin.  Had it done so I consider that it would have 
realised that the proposed investment was unsuitable for Mr B.
Whilst it is apparent Mr B was influenced  by an unregulated introducer, the financial adviser  
has a responsibility  to provide suitable advice.  The recommendation  was to switch and 
transfer Mr Bs pensions to a SIPP. The suitability  of the pension switch  must take into 
account the intended investments to be held within the SIPP.  If the underlying investments 
are not suitable  and Mr Bs existing pensions were  more appropriate then the pension  switch 
itself would be unsuitable.
For one of the occupational pension schemes  Facts & Figures  was unable to assess  how 
viable it would be to match  or better the benefits it provided. For the other transfer  value it 
noted was unlikely to provide sufficient returns to mirror the scheme benefits given up on 
transfer. These occupational pension schemes  provided benefits that were, in my opinion,  
suitable for Mr Bs retirement objectives.
Mr B held two personal pensions and the reasons given for their unsuitability was that they 
didnt match his recorded aggressive  attitude  to investment risk nor facilitate Mr Bs objective 
of investing in Harlequin property. Looking at Mr Bs circumstances  at the time in my opinion  
he didnt have the capacity to make  aggressive risk investments as he did not have the 
capacity for loss that would be needed.  By this I mean Mr B could not afford to lose his 
investment in Harlequin if it subsequently failed.
In my opinion Mr Bs existing personal  pension plans were suitable for his retirement 
objectives. But the investment in Harlequin was neither affordable  nor suitable.
Taking into account the above clearly means  that a recommendation  to arrange a SIPP  and 
switch and transfer the existing benefits was unsuitable. The recommendation letter  to Mr B 
said:
I recommend the following: switch all your four pensions to a SIPP with the Lifetime 
SIPP Company Ltd. Purely because this is the only way that you can achieve your 
principle objective  of overseas property investment.
For Mr B to have been in a fully informed position  about what the best course of action ought 
to have been, Facts & Figures  should  have clearly stated his existing pension arrangements  
were suitable and that it recommended these  benefits remain where they were.
Whilst I note there were some  warnings included in the recommendation report and 
insistent client authorisation form, I have not seen evidence of a suitable recommendation 
which Facts & Figures  ought  to have made. 
Ref: DRN23621107Mr B didnt understand the nature of the investment he was due to make in Harlequin  
property. If he had done so he would have  known it was not possible for him to complete the 
purchase of the investment. 
Facts & Figures  have  said it was not required to have a detailed understanding  of an 
investment to be able to consider the suitability of the SIPP. However,  in my opinion,  it 
should have realised that the proposed investment in Harlequin could only be arranged after 
the transfers to the SIPP had taken place. If the SIPP had not been set up the transfers  
would not have taken place and neither  would  the investment in Harlequin.
In my opinion,  the advice to transfer into the SIPP was unsuitable.
I have then considered  what Mr B would have done  if Facts & Figures  had explained the 
risks and the fact that the investment in Harlequin would need to be £110,000.
In my opinion if Facts & Figures had advised  Mr B not to transfer his pension  arrangements  
into the SIPP I think that he wouldve accepted its advice. I say this because most people  
who pay professional  experts for advice will generally follow that advice.
I havent seen enough to persuade me that Mr B wouldve still gone ahead  with setting up 
the SIPP if hed been told clearly about  the risks and the additional payments that would be 
required later. If Mr B had known about  all of these facts I consider that he would have 
decided not to invest in Harlequin property and he would  not have transferred to the SIPP.
I do not consider  that Facts & Figures can insulate  itself from the blame for the losses  that 
Mr B has experienced having invested in Harlequin.
So, I think Mr B has lost out because of the advice he received from Facts & Figures.
The role of third parties
While other  businesses were involved here,  Mr B has made a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service against Facts & Figures. So I need  to consider how its actions 
contributed to his loss.
In my opinion Facts & Figures is responsible for his loss as the investment could not have 
taken place without  the SIPP being set up and his pension monies  being  transferred into it. 
Mr B took and accepted the advice  from Facts  & Figures to set up the SIPP  and transfer his 
pension benefits  into it, knowing hed told it of his intentions. In my opinion,  Facts & Figures  
didnt do enough  to highlight the risks involved of his intended actions or advise him against  
transferring out of the two OPS, given what he was giving up and his retirement  objectives.
 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr B as close  to the position he would probably  now be in if he had not been  given  
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr B would have remained invested in his four previous pension 
arrangements.
Ref: DRN23621108what should  Facts & Figures Financial Planners Ltd do?
My aim is to return Mr B to the position he would have been  in but for the unsuitable  advice. 
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid  (meaning it could not be readily  sold on 
the open market) as in this case. It would be difficult to know the actual  value  of the 
investment. In such a case the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. 
Facts & Figures  Financial  Planners Ltd should take ownership of the illiquid investment by 
paying a commercial value acceptable  to the pension provider. This amount should  be 
deducted from the total payable to Mr B and the balance be paid as I have set out above.
If Facts & Figures  Financial Planners Ltd is unwilling  or unable to purchase the investment 
the actual  value should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation.  It may wish to 
require that Mr B provides an undertaking to pay to it any amount he may receive  from the 
investment in the future.
I note that the SIPP only exists because  of the Harlequin investment. In order  for the SIPP to 
be closed and further SIPP fees prevented, this investment  needs  to be removed. But if 
Facts & Figures  Financial  Planners Ltd cant  buy it Mr B is faced  with future SIPP fees. I 
think it is fair to assume five years of future SIPP fees. So, if Facts & Figures Financial 
Planners Ltd cant buy the investment, it should pay an amount equal to five years  of SIPP  
fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition to the compensation calculated using a nil 
value for the investment.
1.The two personal  pension  transfers.
To compensate Mr B fairly,  Facts & Figures Financial Planners  Ltd must:
compare the performance of Mr Bs investment, resulting from the switch of the two 
personal pensions,  with that of the returns he would have achieved had the two 
personal pensions  remained  with the existing  providers.  
Facts  & Figures  Financial Planners Ltd should pay the difference between the fair 
value and the actual  value of the investment. If the actual  value  is greater  than the fair 
value, no compensation is payable.
Facts & Figures  Financial  Planners Ltd should also pay interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Facts  & Figures  Financial  Planners  Ltd  should pay such  amount  as 
may be required  into Mr Bs pension plan, allowing for any available  tax relief and/or 
costs, to increase the pension plan value by the total amount of the compensation 
and any interest. 
If Facts & Figures  Financial Planners Ltd is unable to pay the total amount  into 
Mr Bs pension  plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible 
to pay into the plan, it would have provided  a taxable income.  Therefore the total 
amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid.
Ref: DRN23621109The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Bs marginal rate of tax at 
retirement. 
For example, if Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  in retirement,  the notional  
allowance would equate to a reduction  in the total amount  equivalent to the current  
basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would  have been able to take a tax free lump sum, 
the notional allowance should  be applied to 75% of the total amount.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP 
investment  
arising from 
the 
personal 
pension 
plansstill existsMr Bs 
personal 
pensionsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a
return using the existing personal  pensions  as the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large  number of regular  payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept  if Facts & Figures Financial Planners Ltd totals  all those payments and 
deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
2.The Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) transfers.
I will now turn my attention to the compensation for the transfer of the two occupational  
pension schemes. These should be considered separately.
Facts & Figures  Financial  Planners Ltd must  undertake a redress calculation  for each 
transfer value  separately  in line with the regulators pension review  guidance  as updated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority  in October 2017.
Ref: DRN236211010This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this 
should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate  provider promptly  following receipt of 
notification of Mr Bs acceptance  of the decision.
Facts & Figures  Financial  Planners Ltd may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P).  These  details should then be used to include a SERPS 
adjustment in the calculation,  which will take into account the impact  of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P  entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely  income  tax rate in retirement   presumed 
to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr B 
within 90 days of the date Facts & Figures Financial Planners Ltd receives notification of 
his/her acceptance of my final decision.  Further interest must be added  to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days,  that it takes Facts & Figures  Financial 
Planners Ltd to pay Mr B this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Mr B has been distressed  and inconvenienced by unsuitable advice causing  the loss
of pension benefits. For the upset  caused Facts & Figures  Financial Planners Ltd must make 
an additional  payment of £200 to Mr B.
Ref: DRN236211011my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Facts & Figures  Financial Planners Ltd should 
pay the amount  calculated as set out above.  Facts & Figures  Financial Planners Ltd should 
provide details of its calculation  to Mr B in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 May 2019.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2362110