K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Everyday Lending Limited  (ELL) lent to him in an irresponsible  
manner.
background
Mr G was given two loans  by ELL in May 2014 and June 2015. The first loan, for £3,453, 
was due to be repaid  over 18 months. But in June 2015 Mr G refinanced that loan and took 
some additional  borrowing. So his second  loan was for £4,500  and was due to be repaid  
over 24 monthly instalments. Mr G has faced problems  repaying that loan and a balance 
remained outstanding  when he made  his complaint.
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that it had 
been reasonable for ELL to give either loan to Mr G. So he asked ELL to pay Mr G some 
compensation. ELL accepted the adjudicators conclusions in relation  to the second loan, but 
still thought it had been reasonable for the first loan to have been agreed.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage  of our process. If Mr G accepts my decision it 
is legally  binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Gs complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time ELL gave these loans to Mr G required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so ELL had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr G. In practice this 
meant that ELL had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr G undue  
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think  
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr G. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN28792972the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether ELL did what it needed to before  agreeing  to lend 
to Mr G.
ELL gathered some information from Mr G before it agreed the first loan. It asked him for 
details of his income,  and his normal expenditure. It checked Mr Gs credit file to assess how 
much he was repaying to other creditors. And it looked at copies of Mr Gs bank statements 
to get an overview  of his financial situation.
Mr G was entering into a significant  commitment  with ELL. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of 18 months.  So I think it right that ELL wanted  to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed  information  about Mr Gs financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were proportionate.
But simply doing proportionate checks isnt enough.  A lender also needs  to react 
appropriately to the information that those checks show. That might  lead the lender to 
consider that further information should be gathered. Or it might lead the lender to conclude  
that the loan application  should be declined outright. So Ive looked  at Mr Gs bank  
statements, and what hes told us about his financial situation, to see what I think  ELL should  
have decided from the checks it did.
At the time ELL identified  that Mr G was borrowing heavily from a number of other short term 
lenders. Mr G told ELL that he intended to use some  of the proceeds from the loan to repay 
those other  short term loans. I think ELL was entitled to rely on what  Mr G said and discount  
the repayment of those  loans from the disposable  income it calculated  for Mr G. 
But ELLs analysis  of Mr Gs bank statements also showed that he was spending money on 
what were identified as gambling transactions. ELL noted at the time that it thought the 
amount Mr G was spending was in line with his income and had decreased greatly.
It isnt clear to me what comparative figures  ELL used when it determined  that Mr Gs 
gambling spend had reduced  greatly.  It might  be that is simply a record  of what  Mr G himself  
said about those  transactions. But from my review of Mr Gs bank statements I dont think it 
would be reasonable to conclude at the time of the first loan that Mr Gs gambling 
expenditure was showing  a clear  and consistent  reduction over a reasonable period of time. 
It is true that there were  some months  he spent  less than others. But gambling is present,  at 
relatively large amounts, across all the statements  I have reviewed for the months preceding 
this loan.
I think that a reasonable lender should have concluded that Mr G was facing problems 
managing his spending on gambling  transactions. ELL was required to ensure  that Mr G 
would be able to repay his borrowing in a sustainable manner. Given  the erratic  and at times 
Ref: DRN28792973excessive spending  on gambling transactions I dont think  it was reasonable for ELL to 
conclude that Mr G would be able to repay the loan sustainably. I dont therefore think  it was 
appropriate for ELL to give this loan to Mr G.
Mr G didnt always make his repayments on time in the following months. So I think  ELL 
should have been concerned when, around a year into the 18 month  loan term, Mr G asked 
to increase the amount  he was borrowing and refinance his existing loan.  He would be 
extending the period he was indebted  for, and greatly increasing his monthly  repayments.
It seems  that Mr G first asked ELL to refinance  his loan in April 2015.  At that time it noted 
that Mr Gs bank statements showed  heavy gambling and payday loans. Mr G agreed  to 
leave his request  until the following month.  In May 2015 ELL noted that Mr Gs gambling  had 
reduced a little, but a payday  loan remained.
I have also looked  at Mr Gs bank statements in the months leading  up to the second  loan. 
As before I dont  think  they show any evidence of a clear and consistent reduction in Mr Gs 
gambling expenditure. And I think the fact that he had started  using payday loans once 
again should have suggested to ELL that he was unable to manage his money in such a way 
that he could afford  to repay any new borrowing in a sustainable manner.  I note that ELL has 
accepted our adjudicators findings in that regard, and I too dont think the second loan 
should have been given  to Mr G.
So in summary I dont think ELL should  have agreed  to give either loan to Mr G based on the 
information shown  on the checks it did. ELL needs  to pay Mr G some compensation.
putting things right
I dont think ELL should have agreed  to lend to Mr G in either May 2014 or June 2015.  
So ELL should;
refund  all the interest and charges Mr G paid on the first loan 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the second loan and treat any 
payments Mr G made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Gs loan account  as Ive directed results in Mr G effectively having 
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then ELL should  refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Gs loan account  leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then ELL 
can use the total refund for the first loan (after the deduction of tax) to offset this. And 
if there is still an outstanding capital balance  then I remind  ELL that it should  take a 
sympathetic view when seeking  to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr G
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Gs credit file in relation to the loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr G a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN28792974my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 March 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2879297