K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC failed to apply a credit  card payment on 
the day it was sent to it, which  resulted  in her being  charged interest.  She also complains 
that Tesco sent her an incomplete template letter in response to her complaint, that didnt 
provide any information.
background
Ms P made a payment  on 16 February 2019 from her bank account  with a business  I will call 
B via Faster Payment at 19.12 to Tesco. Ms P says that Tesco didnt  apply the money to 
her credit card account until 18 February 2019 and charged her interest.  She says the Faster  
Payment has to be made within two hours and that it and B didnt have any reported issues  
that would  have delayed the payment. Ms P also complains about Tescos  response to her 
complaint and says the document she was sent was incomplete. She would like the interest 
refunded and compensation for what happened.
Tesco says it didnt  receive the payment until 18 February 2019 and so the interest was 
charged in line with the account terms and conditions, as the payment was due on 16 
February 2019. It says it advises customers on the credit card statement that they should 
allow 48 hours for a Faster Payment to be credited. It also says that Faster Payment itself 
also advise that a payment can take longer if made outside working hours.
Tesco has apologised for the letter it sent Ms P and has paid her £20 compensation. It also 
accepts Ms P tried to make the payment on time and so has refunded the interest.
Ms P brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator  thought Tesco  had dealt fairly with the 
complaint. The adjudicator  thought  that Tesco told its customers  on the account  statement 
that a Faster Payment  could take between 2 and 48 hours to process. And that the Faster 
Payment website also confirmed that a payment can take longer than the usual two hours  if 
made outside normal working hours.  The adjudicator thought Tesco  had acted fairly by 
apologising for the letter  and paying  compensation and also for refunding the interest.
Ms P doesnt accept  that view and says there were no issues that should have delayed  her 
payment. She says the adjudicator has ignored her statement in favour of Tesco and she 
has evidence of previous payments being  credited  shortly after being made. Ms P says the 
adjudicator shouldnt have looked at the second  part of her complaint about the letter  she 
received.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator that Tesco has dealt fairly  with this complaint. I realise that 
Ms P will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels about 
whats happened.
Ive looked at the information Tesco provides to its customers on its statements about Faster  
Payments. And I can see that customers are advised that Faster  Payments  can take 
between 2 and 48 hours to process. Ive also looked at the information Faster  Payments 
provides and can see that it says payments are normally made almost immediately or up to 
two hours.  But it also says payments can take longer especially outside normal  working  
hours. So I dont  think  Tesco  made  a mistake  here as the payment was due on 16 February  
Ref: DRN260896822019 and Im satisfied  that it makes clear  that a customer should allow up to 48 hours to 
make a payment  by this method. Ive not seen any evidence that Tesco failed to process the 
payment as soon  as it was received and I dont think paying  by Faster Payment provides a 
guarantee that all payments will be made  within a specified period of time. And I think this 
was a payment  that was made on a Saturday evening which was outside normal  working 
hours and the type of transaction that the Faster  Payment  website  suggests  may take longer 
than normal.
Whilst I dont think  Tesco made a mistake Im satisfied its acted fairly by refunding the 
interest Ms P asked it to do, and by recognising that her previous payments were all on time.
I appreciate Ms P says she didnt ask the adjudicator to look at the second part of her 
complaint. But I can see that Ms P brought both complaints to us and hasnt told us if she 
accepts Tescos response to her complaint about  the letter it sent her. Ive looked  at the 
letter Tesco sent Ms P and there  can be no doubt it made no sense and could not have been 
checked before being sent out. I accept that Ms P would  have  been  caused frustration by 
that letter and inconvenience in asking Tesco for a proper response. But Im satisfied  that 
Tesco has acted fairly by paying what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation and by apologising to Ms P.
Overall, for the reasons  Ive explained,  Im satisfied  Tesco has dealt fairly with this complaint 
and I can see that its acted as Ms P wanted by refunding the interest and paying  
compensation. So I cant ask Tesco to do anything  further in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has paid a fair and reasonable amount 
of compensation  and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2608968