K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) mis-sold  her a Lifestages 
Repayment Cover policy. 
Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited (HIIL) sold this policy, but St Andrews has accepted 
responsibility for the sale. Because of this, St Andrews has also agreed it is responsible for 
the complaint.  So Ive referred to St Andrews as the seller in my decision.
background
Ms N took out a loan with Halifax in 2009. After the sale of the loan Ms N was sold a 
Lifestages policy by St Andrews. The policy wouldve paid £200 per month for up to 12 
months at a time if Ms N couldnt  work  due to an accident, sickness or unemployment.  It also 
wouldve paid a lump  sum if Ms N had given up work to become  a carer for someone  else.  
Ms N says the insurance wasnt  explained  to her.
The adjudicator thought  that Ms Ns complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Ms N disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
The Lifestages policy was sold separately to the loan; both sales took place over the phone. 
After the loan was agreed, Ms N was transferred to St Andrews,  which sold the policy.  As 
the loan was already agreed  I think it was clear that the Lifestages policy  was optional. 
St Andrews  has provided a copy of the script that was in use at the time. I think its likely the 
sale followed  this script.  The script  explicitly refers to the policy  as optional and seeks to 
obtain the consent of the customer to set up the policy.
So, on balance, on the information I have I think its likely that Ms N wouldve understood 
that the policy was optional,  and she chose to buy it. And Ms N hasnt suggested otherwise. 
St Andrews  made a personal recommendation to Ms N to buy the policy. So it had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was suitable  for her. It also had to make sure it gave her 
enough information so she could make  her decision. Looking at the script I think  its possible 
St Andrews  wouldnt  have asked enough  questions to fully establish whether it was suitable 
for Ms N. And its possible Ms N didnt get all the information she ideally shouldve done  as 
she has suggested.
But this doesnt  mean I should automatically  uphold Ms Ns complaint. I have to consider 
whether Ms N wouldve acted differently and not bought the policy  if shed understood all the 
terms and if St Andrews had fully assessed  whether it was suitable for her.  I think the policy 
was suitable for her. I say this because:
Ref: DRN20939872Ms N was eligible  for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the terms which 
mightve made it more  difficult to make a successful claim, such as those related to 
existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Ms N says shed have got some sick pay and redundancy  pay. Ms N hasnt said how 
much, but given  her length of service and the type of role she was in I dont think  it 
wouldve been very much. The policy wouldve paid out in addition  to any contractual  
benefits and for up to 12 months  at a time  likely much longer than her contractual 
benefits wouldve  lasted;
The cost of the policy was reasonable for the benefit it provided. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest it was unaffordable  for Ms N;
Any benefit paid to Ms N wouldve been paid directly to her  and not to pay off the 
loan. So she couldve used the benefit for whatever she wanted it for at the time. 
I think the policy was suitable for Ms N and she wouldnt have been deterred from taking the 
policy if shed had all the right information. So, I dont think  Ms N lost out as a result  of 
anything St Andrews mightve done  wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Ms Ns complaint, so it follows  that St Andrews Insurance  Plc doesnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2093987