K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to her in an irresponsible  manner.
background
Mrs K took out five loans with Uncle Buck between April 2015 and August 2017. Loan one 
was repayable in one instalment; loans  two to five were repayable  in three  instalments. 
Uncle Buck  agreed  a repayment plan in relation  to loan five. Mrs K repaid all the loans. A 
summary of Mrs Ks borrowing with Uncle Buck is as follows:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
124 April 2015 100 29 May 2015
222 August 2015 100 30 October 2015
313 January 2016 100 31 March 2016
429 April 2017 100 22 June 2017
56 August 2017 200 20 June 2018
Mrs K says that she couldnt  afford  to repay  these loans. She wants a refund of interest and 
charges, with interest. Mrs K also wants the loans removed  from her credit file. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mrs Ks complaint. He didnt  think  that Uncle  Buck should 
have given Mrs K loans four and five. That was because  the credit  check Uncle Buck  carried  
out showed that Mrs K had three other  active short-term accounts. So, he thought Uncle  
Buck shouldve realised  that it was unlikely that Mrs K could repay the loans from loan four 
onwards. 
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with the adjudicator.  It said,  in summary:
Its not right to remove entries  from Mrs Ks credit file.
It doesnt expect  applicants to have perfect  credit histories and they may have other 
borrowing.
It should have  done more before giving Mrs K loan four.
Its credit check didnt  show that Mrs K had three  other short-term loans at the time of 
loan four. 
There are several demands and drivers  for high cost credit.
It expects  applicants  to the accurate and truthful about income and outgoings. 
It carries out credit  checks  and even if theres certain adverse information, it would 
still consider the application. 
This service has previously said that a lender is entitled to rely on the information 
provided unless  theres a reason  to question it.
Ref: DRN23020752Uncle Buck offered  to pay Mrs K compensation of £120 in relation to loan four. 
Mrs K didnt accept Uncle Bucks offer, so the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mrs K 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mrs K could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  Of 
course, the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ks complaint.
Ref: DRN23020753There was a gap of over a year between Mrs Ks repayment of loan three and her taking out 
loan four. I think that gap was such that Uncle Buck  was entitled to treat Mrs K as a new 
borrower at the time of loan four. So, Im dealing with two periods of lending here: loans one 
to three  and loans  four and five. 
I dont think that Uncle  Buck  was wrong  to give Mrs K loans one to three. Given  the 
repayment amounts,  what was apparent  about Mrs Ks circumstances at the time and her 
history with the lender at that point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Uncle  
Buck to ask Mrs K for the amount of information  needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mrs K provided or the information 
Uncle Buck  shouldve been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  for it to 
start verifying what Mrs K said.  
As Ive said,  there was a gap in lending  between loans three and four. When  Mrs K asked to 
borrow loan four, the credit searches Uncle Buck carried out showed  that she had three 
other short-term loans outstanding. I appreciate that Uncle Buck doesnt  expect applicants to 
have perfect credit histories  but I think that the information from its credit searches indicated 
that Mrs K was having problems managing her money such that further borrowing was 
unsustainable. Uncle Buck was, or should have been, aware of that after its credit checks. In 
those circumstances,  I dont think that Uncle Buck should have given Mrs K loan four 
onwards. 
Uncle Buck  says that it isnt right to remove  entries  from Mrs Ks credit  file but I dont agree. I 
dont think that it should  have given  Mrs K loans four and five. So, its fair that adverse 
information about those loans is removed  from Mrs Ks credit file.
Ive noted all thats been said but for the reasons Ive set out above,  I dont think  that
Uncle Buck  should  have  given Mrs K loans four and five and it should put things  right. 
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs K paid on loans four and five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four and five from Mrs Ks credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN23020754my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mrs Ks complaint in part. 
Uncle Buck  Finance LLP should pay Mrs K compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2302075