K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with what  Lloyds  has offered to put things right following their 
complaint about  the sale of payment protection insurance.
background
Mr and Mrs W complained that Lloyds mis-sold PPI alongside their mortgage. An adjudicator 
looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. Lloyds offered to put Mr and Mrs W 
in the position theyd  be in if they hadnt bought  the policy. It worked out it needed to pay 
Mr and Mrs W £3,509.03.
Mr and Mrs W think they should  get more. When Lloyds worked out what  it needed to pay, it 
assumed the policy ended in October 2003. Mr and Mrs W think  the policy may have 
continued until 2010. An adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought that what Lloyds 
was now offering was fair. Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree with the adjudicator. So the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has agreed  the complaint about  the sale of PPI should be upheld  - so Ive looked  at 
whether what theyve now offered is fair.
Where a business agrees, or I decide,  that a complaint about the sale of PPI ought to be 
upheld, I expect the business  to put the consumer in the position theyd be in if they hadnt 
bought the policy.
Because of the time thats passed,  we have very limited  information about the policy  and 
what Mr and Mrs W paid each month.  Lloyds has located one record showing that there  was 
a PPI policy, and it cost £40.89 a month. But Lloyds cant say when the policy started  or 
when it ended. 
Given the limited information available, Lloyds  has assumed that the policy started  in March 
2000, at the same time Mr and Mrs W took out their mortgage. And it has assumed the 
policy continued until October 2003. 
We asked Lloyds why it thought the policy had ended in October  2003.  Lloyds has said that 
if the policy had still been in force after October  2003, theyd have records  showing this  
and so that Mr and Mrs W dont lose out theyve assumed the policy  continued until then. 
Mr and Mrs W disagree. They think the policy charge  was concealed within  the monthly 
mortgage payment.  If PPI had ended in October 2003 theyd expect to see a reduction  in 
their payments by the amount they were  originally charged for PPI. And they note the 
mortgage ended in April 2010  and so they think its more  logical that the mortgage ran until 
then.
So Ive thought about what  Mr and Mrs W and Lloyds have said alongside the other  
information I have  about the policy. 
Ref: DRN21998962Lloyds has sent me a list of transactions on the mortgage. This shows  all the payments 
Mr and Mrs W made from January 2002 until April 2010. I see this shows the balance of the 
mortgage each  year, the interest charged  on that balance, and Mr and Mrs Ws regular 
mortgage repayments. It does not show any charges for insurance.  
I see the mortgage repayments shown  on this list of transactions match the repayments 
shown on the bank statements and mortgage statements Mr and Mrs W have sent me. 
For this reason, Im satisfied that the cost of the PPI was not concealed  within the mortgage 
payments. I think its more likely Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI separately. I havent  seen a 
separate charge for this insurance  on the bank statements Mr and Mrs W have sent me. And 
so I dont think, based on what  Ive seen, that the policy continued  beyond  October  2003   if 
it wasnt cancelled before then.
Ive therefore  thought  about Lloydss offer
Id expect Lloyds  to refund the premiums  Mr and Mrs W paid  and add interest to 
compensate them for the time theyve been  out of pocket.
Lloyds has agreed  to refund £40.89 a month. It has assumed Mr and Mrs W paid the first 
premium on 23 April 2000, and the last premium  on 23 October 2003. And Lloyds has added  
interest  the rate is 8% simple per year  to each payment  from the date it assumed 
Mr and Mrs W made them until the date they get this back.
In all the circumstances, I think what Lloyds has offered is fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc has paid fair compensation for mis-selling  PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2199896