K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI)  has incorrectly  been  sending 
them arrears  letters for their buy to let mortgage.  They want  compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs M had a buy to let mortgage  with BOI, taken out through a broker.  They said that 
theyd been receiving arrears letters when they werent in arrears; Mr and Mrs M said that 
theyd never  been  in arrears or missed  a payment. Mr and Mrs M were  upset and felt 
harassed by BOI, particularly as negative reports had been recorded in their credit records.
Mr and Mrs M complained to BOI. It said Mr and Mrs M werent  paying  their mortgage in 
advance and that it had explained  this to them on a number of occasions. BOI noted that the 
mortgage had been in constant arrears since December 2012 (and in arrears at times before 
this) and it had sent letters  several times since June 2018 about the arrears. It pointed  out 
that it was required  to tell customers when there were arrears,  and that the arrears needed 
to be paid. It sent a statement setting out the transactions  on the account, showing the 
arrears. BOI denied that its letters were threatening.
Mr and Mrs M complained to us and mentioned  that one letter said theyd missed  a payment 
in January 2019, which had been  paid. BOI explained that Mr and Mrs M had made several  
complaints in relation to their mortgage  and it only agreed to the complaint about  its arrears 
letters being  considered. It also noted that Mr and Mrs M were in breach of the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage by failing to pay the mortgage on time as required. 
The adjudicators view was that BOI wasnt at fault. He noted that the account  was in arrears  
and had been for years since July 2013.  And the adjudicator pointed out that the payment in 
January 2019  wasnt paid until after Mr and Mrs M received the arrears letter.  He didnt think  
that it was unfair or unreasonable for BOI to send arrears letters when the mortgage was in 
arrears. The adjudicator explained  to Mr and Mrs M that BOI had refunded one arrears fee 
as it had offered  them extra time to pay the January  2019 payment.
Mr and Mrs M felt that they hadnt been  treated fairly and been  put to the inconvenience of 
making a complaint. They wanted compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to deal with the issue  of the 
arrears fee charged  in relation to the January 2019 as it wasnt  part of the complaint made 
originally to BOI, and isnt the core of this complaint in any event. 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about  the arrears letters theyve received. Before I deal with 
this, its worth noting that buy to let mortgages are commercial loans (there  are a few 
exceptions but they dont  apply in this case), and are different to residential mortgages, both 
in their terms and how lenders act. Its the responsibility of the customer to ensure  that the 
mortgage is paid each month  on time, even if any tenants arent paying the rent. Arrears  can 
mean unpaid  monthly payments and/or fees due to the lender under the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage which havent  been paid.
Ref: DRN25252962Having looked  at the evidence available to me, including all the financial transactions for the 
mortgage account, its clear that Mr and Mrs M have been  in and out of arrears almost  from 
the start of the mortgage. They were  sent arrears  letters and discussed the arrears with BOI 
regularly since 2009. It isnt correct that Mr and Mrs M have never missed a payment.
Its also the case that Mr and Mrs M were constantly in arrears  from July 2013. They havent 
repaid in full those arrears or the related fees (which  are due under the terms and conditions 
of the mortgage). While  the arrears balance seems  to be reducing over time, it hasnt been 
cleared. Lenders  are required  to tell customers about any arrears; I cant  say BOI is acting 
unfairly or unreasonably in doing  so in Mr and Mrs Ms case when there  are arrears. I also 
dont think that the letters  Ive seen  are threatening; they simply make it clear that the arrears 
must be paid.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 December 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2525296