K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage taken out by Mr and Mrs M in 2007  with Santander UK 
Plc. Mr and Mrs M say the mortgage  wasnt suitable  for them, and so they subsequently lost 
their house.
background
In 2007 Mr and Mrs M applied for a remortgage with Santander via an independent  financial  
adviser (IFA). They borrowed £374,799  on an interest-only basis  over a 20-year term. I 
understand the property was later sold in 2015.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs M complained to Santander  about the mortgage.  Santander  said it 
wasnt responsible  for the suitability of the mortgage  as Mr and Mrs M had received advice 
from an IFA rather than Santander.
Our adjudicator who considered the complaint didnt recommend it should be upheld.  She 
explained the rules at the time meant  Santander  was allowed to rely on the information 
provided by the IFA, and so the IFA would  be responsible for dealing  with any complaint 
about the suitability of the mortgage.  Mr and Mrs M didnt agree and so its been  passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where a mortgage application is made through a third party  intermediary, such  as an IFA, 
theres no obligation on the part of the lender to replicate  the role of the IFA. At the time this 
mortgage was sold, the responsibility for any advice  that may have been given about 
suitability (for example, the method  of repayment,  and about  debt consolidation) lay with the 
IFA rather than with the lender.
The lender  had a duty to lend responsibly which, generally speaking, it could at the time 
discharge by relying on the information supplied by the IFA. If, in Santanders  commercial  
judgement, it was satisfied with the information provided by the IFA about the customers 
circumstances (such as their declared incomes) it was within its rights to do so. There was 
no regulatory requirement at that time for it to validate the information. 
The regulatory requirements for mortgage  lending have changed substantially over the last 
few years.  But I can only consider Mr and Mrs Ms complaint based on the regulations and 
normal industry practice at the time, and without the use of hindsight or the latest rules.
Mr and Mrs M appointed an IFA to act as their agent. The IFAs job was then to search the 
market to find a suitable  mortgage for them. The IFA wasnt selling the mortgage on behalf  
of Santander;  it was arranging a mortgage  (that just happened to be with Santander, but 
could have been with a different lender) for Mr and Mrs M. So the responsibility for the 
suitability of that mortgage  rests with the IFA, not with Santander.
Fast tracking  a mortgage application  (which  meant  Santander was willing to accept the 
application without  proof of income)  was acceptable  at the time Mr and Mrs M applied for 
this mortgage.  The lending decision would then be made based on the income information 
Ref: DRN22424372Mr and Mrs Ms agent  their IFA  provided  on their behalf.  Unless there was a compelling 
reason to do otherwise, a lender was allowed to rely on the information provided by the IFA 
and take that in good faith.  
If Mr and Mrs M have  any concerns about  how their IFA advised  them,  theyd need to 
complain separately to that company.  In saying that, Im making no recommendation that 
they should make a separate complaint, and they should draw no inferences on what  the 
merits of such a complaint, if made, might be. But I cant fairly hold Santander liable for any 
acts or omissions there may have been  on the IFAs part. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2242437