K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly  advised him to invest  too much money in 
ISAs which  exposed his money to too much risk in 2000 given he was 65, had no investment 
experience and this money represented  more  than half his lifetime  savings.
background
Mr Ss representative said:
He was pressured into meeting the financial adviser immediately after receiving  
£30,000 from a maturing endowment policy
Having allocated £16,000 to build an extension on his home, he was advised to 
invest too much of his available capital leaving him with insufficient  cash  reserves  for 
his future  planned outgoings
Even though  he was aware the value of the investments could fluctuate, he was 
advised to take too much risk with this money  given  he was a first-time investor  with 
no previous experience or knowledge of risk-based products
The complexity of the two products  was unsuitable for a first-time  investor whod 
previously only held savings on deposit
HSBC originally argued that this complaint was time-barred as Mr S lost 17.5%  of his money 
upon surrender  in 2005. It said that this meant  Mr S had brought his complaint more than 
three years after he ought reasonably to have  been  aware of cause  for complaint.
An ombudsman decided that the complaint was within our jurisdiction as he didnt accept the 
size of the loss necessarily meant  Mr S ought  to have been aware of cause for complaint at 
the time.
An adjudicator at this service  felt the complaint should be upheld  given Mr Ss overall 
background and circumstances including  the fact that he had no pension provision.
While Mr S was recorded as being happy  with taking a balanced or moderate risk with the 
£14,000 in question, the adjudicator felt he should  not have been recommended to take 
more than a small risk with this money. He therefore  felt HSBC should pay compensation 
based on this services standard low risk returns formula, which  he outlined.
HSBC disagreed. Firstly, it reiterated that it still felt this complaint was outside our 
jurisdiction, outlining why. In terms of the merits of the complaint, it said:
Mr S understood the implications of investing in a medium risk fund
This means he understood that his money could fall very significantly in a tracker  
fund (hence why the adjudicator said the fall did not mean  he had cause for 
complaint at the time)
He approached his mortgage endowment provider  who told his this investment was 
on course to cover  his mortgage  debt. This indicates he understood stock  markets, 
investments and risk
He had reinvested the proceeds  of a previous  investment  policy so did have 
investment experience
The advisor noted that Mr S was looking for better growth than could be obtained via 
deposit accounts and his explanation of this suggests Mr S fully understood the risk 
he was taking
Ref: DRN25776122Mr S did not rest heavily on what the advisor  said but understood the risks he was 
taking
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I acknowledge that a business is entitled to continue raising jurisdiction objections 
until a final decision is made. This,  however, is so it can raise  new and different objections,  
particularly involving information or evidence not previously considered or available.  It is not 
simply to give a business another bite of the cherry. 
In this case I do not believe it has raised  any new or different grounds which were not, in 
effect, considered  by the ombudsman who decided that this complaint was one we could 
consider. I therefore  do not believe it is necessary or appropriate to reconsider this issue.  I 
would say, however,  that there  is no contradiction  as HSBC seeks  to argue  between  
concluding that Mr S accepted the risks of the proposed fund at the time, and therefore  the 
potential for significant  fluctuation in his money, but that this was poor and inappropriate 
advice (and something  pointed out to him by his representative recently).
As Mr S appears to have been  a first-time investor  with no financial  expertise I think he is 
more likely than not to have heavily relied on the advisor when deciding where to invest  his 
money rather than making an independent judgment about the appropriateness  of the 
proposed investments.
I am surprised that HSBC  has sought to argue that Mr Ss experience of endowment  policies 
designed to protect  a mortgage represents  knowledge  or understanding of the stock  market 
or investment risk. These products were  often sold as a sure-fire  and tax-efficient means  of 
paying off a mortgage rather than risk-based investments. The mere  fact that Mr S appeared 
to be on course to do what it had been  recommended for does not indicate he had any 
general investment  knowledge.
Nor do I think that the paragraph from the advisors report  which HSBC highlighted indicates  
that Mr S was fully aware of the risk of the proposed investments. Mr S may well have been 
looking for a better return than that available via deposit accounts  (who isnt?) but the 
question is how much risk he was prepared to take with his money to try and achieve such  
an objective. In my view there  is not sufficient evidence to support the advisors view that he 
wanted or should have been advised to take more than a cautious risk with this money.
Given his background  and circumstances,  I do not think  it was appropriate to recommend 
investing a large  portion of his savings in a medium risk fund or funds. He appears  to have 
had no means of replacing  any losses, was living on a modest  income and was likely to be 
working self-employed for another five years at most. With no pension  provision or other 
investments this money was clearly very important to his future  financial stability.
Given these factors I am satisfied that he should  not have been advised  to take more than a 
small or cautious risk with this significant  portion  of his savings. I therefore agree with the 
adjudicators proposed  redress.
HSBC must compare the return  Mr S received when these investments were  surrendered  
with what he would  have  received via this services low risk formula: that is an equal 
Ref: DRN25776123combination of the returns shown by the UK Private Investors Total  Return Index and the 
Bank of Englands  bonds of 12 to 17 months  maturity. Assuming this shows  a loss, it should  
then pay this figure and add 8% simple interest  per annum from the date of surrender to the 
date of settlement  of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  HSBC  UK Bank Plc to pay compensation as outlined 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2577612