K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained, through his daughter  Mrs M, about the way Inter Partner  Assistance 
SA (IPA) dealt with a claim he made on his home  emergency insurance policy.  
All references to IPA include its agents.  
background
Mrs M made  a claim to IPA on Mr Ss behalf because he had no hot water or heating. She 
said her father is seriously ill and this needed  urgent attention. IPA sent an engineer  to the 
property the following day who managed  to get the heating  to work again. Mrs M says when 
the engineer was there he also did some work on the radiators, which  hadnt been  working.  
Mrs M said the heating stopped working  again  a day or so later. She reported  this to IPA two 
days later.  IPA told Mrs M that the water  in the boiler had been contaminated and contained 
sludge so it wasnt  going to cover  any further  repairs to the boiler until it was power  flushed.  
It said a power flush wasnt something that the policy covered. 
A few days  later Mrs M told IPA that one of the radiators was leaking and as a result  the 
carpets needed replacing. She said this made her fathers house very damp and made him 
more unwell. IPA said it could arrange  for another engineer to cap the radiator so it would 
stop leaking but repeated that it wouldnt provide any cover  in relation to the boiler.
IPA arranged for a different engineering company to attend the following day. It capped the 
radiator and it also checked the boiler. It also said that a power flush was needed and that 
the water  in the boiler was badly  contaminated. 
Mrs M complained and provided IPA with a quote  for around £2,000 to replace the boiler  and 
also a quote for around £1,000 to replace the damaged carpet. 
IPA upheld the complaint in part. It maintained that a power flush  wasnt  covered under the 
policy. It told Mrs M it would consider a further  engineers opinion  if she wanted to obtain 
one. It offered to pay for half of the cost to repair the carpet.  It said the first engineer denied 
doing anything  to the radiator and as there was no way of confirming whether that was the 
case or not it felt this was the fairest thing  to do. It also offered £100  compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. 
Mrs M didnt  agree and complained to us. She said she wanted  to be reimbursed for the cost 
of the new boiler  and the carpets  as well as additional compensation including  for making 
her father very ill. Our investigator  thought IPA had done enough to address the complaint. 
Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs M has told us that she is Mr Ss carer and that he suffers  from a terminal  illness  as well 
as another serious condition. I can appreciate that this wouldve made an already stressful 
situation even  more difficult for both for Mrs M and Mr S. Ive listened to a number of calls 
between Mrs M and IPA and I can see that Mrs M has tried hard to ensure the complaint 
Ref: DRN27915502was fully investigated but also that her father didnt go through any further unnecessary  
stress. 
As explained by our investigator we are an impartial service and we make  our decisions 
based on the evidence available to us which may include the policy, each partys version of 
events and expert evidence whilst having  regard  to matters like standard  industry  practice 
and the law. Despite having a lot of sympathy for Mr S and Mrs Ms situation,  after 
considering all the available evidence, I dont  think this is a complaint  I can uphold.  
the boiler
Mr Ss policy  doesnt cover any loss or damage that results from lack of maintenance and it 
also doesnt cover the cost of a power  flush if one is deemed necessary. These terms arent 
unusual in home emergency policies  and we think its fair and reasonable to allow  insurers  to 
rely on them. 
The only expert engineering evidence Im aware of in this case is from IPAs  engineers.  They 
both said that the water  in the boiler had become contaminated and that a power flush was 
necessary. As there is no other expert  evidence to contradict this, I think  IPA acted 
reasonably when it said it wouldnt be able to provide further cover until a power flush was 
carried out. 
I note that it told Mrs M that it would be prepared to consider a further opinion if she provided 
one and I think this was fair. I appreciate  that Mrs Ms priority was her fathers welfare and 
from what I understand she replaced the boiler  instead. And though  I can fully understand 
Mrs Ms actions,  I dont  think  IPA has to cover the cost of a new boiler.  This wouldnt  be 
something that is covered by the policy which would only pay up to £250 towards a new 
boiler if the old one was beyond economical repair. From what I understand, this wasnt  the 
case here. 
the carpets
Ive listened to Mrs Ms call when she reported  the claim. She told IPA that there was no 
heating or hot water  and also that one of the radiators wasnt  working. Mrs M says this 
shows that IPAs engineer  mustve looked at the radiator which  was later leaking because  
thats one of the things he was there to fix. And she also said she was there  when the 
engineer visited  the property  and saw him check the radiators. 
IPA says it has no record of its engineer trying to repair  the radiator. And, from what Ive 
seen, theres nothing in its file or in any of the engineers notes  that says the engineer 
worked on any of the radiators.   
IPA said as there is no evidence either way it offered Mrs M half of the repair costs for the 
carpet. I think  this is fair and Ill explain why. I dont necessarily disbelieve what  Mrs M has 
said but at the same  time without  any written  record I dont think its possible  to say whether 
the engineer checked the radiator. Also even if he did, without anything  in writing, its difficult  
to know whether what he did was the cause of the leak or whether that was caused  by 
something else. So theres no direct evidence that the engineer  caused  the leak which  
damaged the carpets.
As I said above I have  a lot of sympathy  for Mr S and Mrs Ms situation but for the reasons 
Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ref: DRN27915503my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2791550