K820x#14complaint
Ms K and Mr S1 complain that the mortgage  recommended to them  by UK Moneyman 
Limited wasnt the best available. Ms K and Mr S1 are represented  by a family member  who 
Ill refer to as Mr S2. 
background
Ms K and Mr S1 took out a mortgage in 2016 recommended  by UK Moneyman. Mr S2 says 
the interest rate is too high given the large deposit they paid. He says UK Moneyman didnt 
explain to Ms K and Mr S1 that the interest  rate was expensive. And Ms K and Mr S1 werent  
given the right information or told that better  options  were available.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said the lender 
was chosen because Ms K and Mr S1 wanted  to apply  to a lender that didnt use a credit 
score when assessing the application. UK Moneyman discussed  other  lenders  with them  
and offered to get a decision in principle  from a mainstream lender. But Ms K and Mr S1 
declined this. 
The investigator said the interest  rate was set out clearly in the mortgage offer. The size of 
the deposit didnt affect  the interest rate. The mortgage sales documents said Ms K and 
Mr S1 chose  a fixed rate for 24 months as they hoped their credit rating would improve and 
they could look for a better deal when  the product ended.
Ms K and Mr S1 didnt agree. Mr S2 said that Ms K and Mr S1 were  rushed into the 
mortgage and felt coerced into agreeing to it. He said while  one of them  wasnt  on the 
electoral register other lenders had since said this wasnt a problem.  He said UK Moneyman 
was wrong to say their credit score was a problem.
Mr S2 said Ms K and Mr S1 hadnt followed up on the decision in principal from another  
lender as this was offered  too late in the process  and they were worried  about losing the 
property. Mr S2 said their deposit should  have reduced the interest rate.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
UK Moneyman recommended the mortgage. So it needed to obtain all relevant information  
and ensure the mortgage was suitable  for Ms K and Mr S1s needs and circumstances.
UK Moneymans adviser first met with Ms K and Mr S1 in April 2016. He did a fact find. This 
says Ms K and Mr S1 had no loans  or credit. A note on the fact find says due to the lack of 
credit history  and clients not being on the electoral roll it was unlikely theyd pass credit 
scores. UK Moneymans notes say it offered Ms K and Mr S1 an opportunity  to get a 
decision in principal with a mainstream lender, which  they declined.  
UK Moneyman sent a suitability letter to Ms K and Mr S1 in June 2016. This says there were  
more competitive lenders available. This lender was recommended because  due to Ms K 
Ref: DRN25443432and Mr S1s lack of credit  history  and not being on the voters roll it was unlikely theyd pass 
a credit score. The suitability letter  said UK Moneyman offered to contact a mainstream 
lender for a decision  in principle. But Ms K and Mr S1 wanted to stay with a non-scoring  
lender.
The fact find and the suitability letter say that Ms K and Mr S1 wanted to know their monthly 
payments wouldnt  change for an agreed  period. A two year product was chosen as it would 
allow them to switch  to a better product  when  their credit score improved. 
Mr S2 says Ms K was on the electoral roll and the information recorded by UK Moneyman 
about Ms K and Mr S1s credit score  is wrong.  But if this was the case, Id have  expected 
Ms K and Mr S1 to raise  it at the time.
The interest rate and the amount of the monthly  payments  are set out in the mortgage offer. 
This also set out the fixed rate product term and the interest rate that applies when this ends.  
So Ms K and Mr S1 agreed to this when they took out the mortgage.
The property purchase price increased during  the purchase process. Ms K and Mr S1 paid 
the additional amount using money given to them by a family member. This meant they were 
paying a larger deposit  about 20% of the purchase price. The lender Ms K and Mr S1 had 
applied to said products with a better  interest  rate werent available to Ms K and Mr S1, 
despite the increased deposit.
UK Moneyman says it suggested contacting another lender to see if it would offer a better 
rate. But Ms K and Mr S1 felt they were too far along the purchase  process.  
Mr S2 says a better  rate should have been  offered when  the deposit  increased. But I dont 
think UK Moneyman made an error  with this. The lender Ms K and Mr S1 had applied to 
didnt offer them a better rate. And Ms K and Mr S1 didnt want  to apply elsewhere. 
Based on the available evidence, I dont think UK Moneymans  advice was unsuitable. It did 
a fact find to obtain  relevant information about  Ms K and Mr S1s needs  and circumstances. 
It recommended a mortgage which  met Ms K and Mr S1s needs and circumstances as it 
understood them to be. It explained  why it recommended  the mortgage  if there  had been  a 
misunderstanding about Ms K and Mr S1s circumstances they could have raised this at the 
time.
UK Moneyman offered to contact a mainstream lender at the outset and after the change in 
the purchase price  to test whether a cheaper  product was available.  And it took into account  
the likely  improvement in Ms K and Mr S1s credit scores once theyd had the mortgage  for a 
couple of years when  it recommended  a two year product.
Lastly, I havent seen anything  to suggest that UK Moneyman coerced or rushed Ms K and 
Mr S1 into accepting the mortgage. It met with them to complete the fact find in April and 
May 2016, it sent a suitability letter to them in June  2016 and the lender sent them  a 
mortgage offer in July 2016. The property purchase  price increased in August 2016.  The 
lender issued a new mortgage offer in November 2016 and the mortgage completed after 
this. I think Ms K and Mr S1 had time to consider the information sent to them  by UK 
Moneyman.
 
Ref: DRN25443433my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K and Mr S1 to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2544343