K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold a monthly  premium payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy  in June 1993.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
background
Mrs S bought the policy in June 1993 some time after she took out the store card.  The policy  
was taken out to protect her store card repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs S case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why below.
Mrs S says the PPI was taken out during  a meeting.  FICL on the other hand says the
PPI was sold to Mrs S during a telephone call. Given the PPI wasnt  taken  out at the same  
time as the store card and taking into account  what we know generally about  the lenders 
sales practices at the time, I think its most likely  the PPI was sold to Mrs S over the phone.
Mrs S says she never agreed  to take out the PPI. She says that had she been given a 
choice, she would have  declined it. So, Ive thought about what  shes said alongside the 
additional information Ive seen from FICL.
FICL says Mrs S would have been  given a choice about the PPI. Unfortunately,
FICL hasnt  been  able to provide a recording of the call in which  the sale took place or a 
copy of the sales  script  the lender would have used when selling the PPI to Mrs S. This isnt 
surprising given the sale took place  over 26 years ago. So I dont know what was said in the 
discussion between Mrs S and the lender.
So, Ive had to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened at the time 
of sale. It looks like Mrs S initially applied for her store  card without PPI. FICL later phoned 
her to sell her a policy. And following that call, a policy was set up. Mrs S had already had 
use of her card for before the PPI was added to it, so I think  she would have known that she 
didnt have to have PPI with her card  and I think she would have  realised that it had been 
added to her card.  Overall, I dont think Ive seen enough in this case to make me think its 
more likely that the policy was added without  Mrs S agreement. Instead, I think its more  
likely Mrs S agreed to take it out, knowing that she didnt have to.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for her.
Ref: DRN24548592FICL hasnt  been  able to provide us with a copy of the policy wording from 1993, so Ive had 
a look at the policy wording from 1997   which is the closest  copy  FICL has to the time of 
sale. Because of this, I havent seen the policy wording from the time of sale.  But based  on 
the closest copy Ive seen and using what I know about these types of policies generally, I 
think its likely Mrs S would have been  eligible for the cover.  And I cant see she would have 
been affected by any of the main things  the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing 
medical conditions.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mrs S has told us she would have received statutory sick pay if she was too unwell to work. 
Shes also told us she had life cover  with her mortgage, some  savings and could have sold 
her wedding ring and car to generate money to cover  her repayments. 
Using what we know about Mrs Ss profession, her employer and the length  of time she was 
employed, I think its likely Mrs S would have been  entitled to more  sick pay than shes  told 
us. Having thought about the sick pay Mrs S was likely to receive from her employer, I dont 
think this means she wouldnt have found  the policy useful. I say this because  the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to any sick pay Mrs S would have received from her employer and 
would have paid out for longer. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mrs S was ever 
made redundant.
Ive also thought about what  Mrs S has said about  her life cover she had with her mortgage. 
Looking at the policy she purchased, the benefits were accident,  sickness and 
unemployment cover. So, I dont think that having  life cover in place shows she had no need 
for the PPI. And given  she had life cover in place  with her mortgage, its likely she chose to 
have this in place to protect  her mortgage, not to cover the outstanding balance  of her store  
card.
Finally, Ive thought  about what Mrs S has said about her savings  and selling her wedding 
ring and car. But I dont  think  this would have meant she didnt need the PPI. A successful 
claim under the policy would have covered her store card repayments  and would  have 
enabled her to keep her wedding ring and car  which  presumably were  things she would 
have wanted to keep. The PPI would  have also enabled her to use her savings for any other  
financial commitments  she may have had at what could  be a difficult time. 
So overall, I think Mrs S could have found  the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and
I dont think that any better  information  would have put her off from taking out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2454859