K821x#15complaint
Mr As complaint relates  to the advice he received from Portafina LLP to transfer his 
pension.
background
Following advice from Portafina Mr A transferred his benefits  from his occupational pension 
scheme to a personal  pension in 2015.
Mr As representative complained to Portafina in February 2018. It said that the advice to 
transfer his pension had been  unsuitable  as:
Mr A was inexperienced in complex  pension matters and had relied wholly  upon the 
advice of the adviser;
He had not been looking  to take any excessive risk with his retirement planning;
The plan recommended carried higher risk exposure than was suggested at the point 
of sale;
The adviser didnt  adequately disclose  the downsides to the recommended product;
Mr A would have considered alternative  more suitable options had he been made 
aware of them;
He was not made aware of the inherent charging  associated  with the policy;
He wasnt provided with sufficient time to reflect on the advice received.
Portafina didnt  uphold Mr As complaint. It said, in summary, that:
It had provided its advice in a simple and concise way to enable it to be understood 
by those who lacked  knowledge and experience of financial services;
The investment  recommended allowed  Mr As pension  to obtain a secure  income 
with minimal risk. 
It did not carry a higher risk exposure  than was suggested at the point of sale,  and 
the specific risks associated with the product were fully disclosed in the suitability  
report;
Portofino had recommended that Mr A should  not transfer his pension.  Mr A had 
signed a document stating that he was going against Portafinas advice and was 
treated as an insistent  client;
It was untrue to say that more suitable  options were not disclosed as numerous  
alternative options were explained  in the suitability  report;
The charges  associated with the product were clearly set out in the suitability report;
He was given  more than sufficient time to reflect on the advice.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Portafina had acted fairly. He said,  in summary:
From  the details recorded  from the time of Portafinas advice and the information 
received from Mr A, he felt it reasonable to take the view that Mr A needed to access  
his pension benefits to obtain  a lump sum to meet  pressing financial commitments.  
It wasnt possible for Mr A to take benefits from his occupational pension  scheme 
before age 65. This meant he could either transfer his benefits to a personal pension 
and buy an annuity at the same time as taking a tax free lump  sum or transfer his 
benefits to an income  drawdown arrangement, which would allow him to take a tax-
free cash  lump sum and invest the remainder.  As Mr A hadnt wanted to take an 
Ref: DRN23206372income from his pension benefits before age 65 the adjudicator thought  that the 
option to transfer  to an income drawdown arrangement wasnt  unsuitable for his 
circumstances. So he didnt think that the complaint should be upheld in respect of 
the transfer from the occupational pension scheme;
However, he did think that the particular drawdown product Portafina had 
recommended was unsuitable. This was because he felt that the guaranteed benefits  
the plan provided  didnt  justify  the costs  involved.
Portafina did not agree that the drawdown  product was unsuitable. But our adjudicator was 
not persuaded to change his view,  so the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On balance, I agree with our adjudicator that the advice  to Mr A to transfer his benefits to an 
income drawdown product was not unsuitable for his circumstances. Ill explain why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
The fact find recorded  that Mr A:
was aged 61, and married;
was currently unemployed and in receipt of state benefits;
owned his own property worth approximately £90,000 with no outstanding  mortgage;
had no further  assets or liabilities and no disposable income each month.
The fact find noted  that Mr A wanted  to take his tax free cash lump  sum to repay debts. 
Given his personal  circumstances and the fact he had no disposable income  Im persuaded 
that he was likely to find it difficult to raise the money by other  routes. So I agree that, in the 
circumstances, it wasnt unreasonable for him to wish to access his pension benefits.  But, as 
our adjudicator noted, he wasnt able to take benefits from his occupational pension scheme 
before age 65. This meant that he needed  to transfer his benefits out of that scheme. As he 
didnt want to take an income  from pension benefits  before  age 65 Im persuaded that the 
option to transfer  to an income drawdown arrangement was not inappropriate.
But I also agree  with our adjudicator that the advice to transfer into the particular drawdown 
product Portafina  had recommended wasnt suitable. As our adjudicator explained, the cost 
associated with the guarantee was 0.7% each year. And I agree that the level of benefits 
illustrated didnt represent enough benefit  to him to justify  those  costs.  Im persuaded that 
cheaper products  matching his attitude to risk would have been available  to him at the time.
Portafina has said that Mr A liked the idea of the guarantees that were available  with the 
recommended product.  And it has referred  to a document Mr A wrote saying that he wanted 
the income product with guarantees. But, although Ive considered  what  Portafina has to 
say, this doesnt change my decision.  I say this as I agree with our adjudicator that Mr As 
objective of investing without exposing  himself to high risks could have  been  met without 
incurring the costs involved in the recommended  product. Mr A was taking advice from 
Portafina, and the fact that he chose to follow its advice does not absolve Portafina of 
responsibility for that advice.
Ref: DRN23206373fair compensation
My aim is that Mr A should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr A would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr A's circumstances and objectives when he invested.  
what should  Portafina  do?
To compensate Mr A fairly,  Portafina must:
Compare the performance of Mr A's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Portafina should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr A's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Portafina is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr A's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr A's actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr A would  
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr A £400 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr A how much has been taken  off. Portafina should  give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Metlife still existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK date of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
Ref: DRN23206374Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Portafina 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr A wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr A's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr A into that position.  It does  not mean that Mr A would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr A could  have  obtained  from investments  suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
Ref: DRN23206375my final decision 
My decision  is that I partially  uphold  the complaint. My decision is that Portafina LLP should 
pay the amount  calculated as set out above.
Portafina LLP should provide details  of its calculation to Mr A in a clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2320637