K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about Markerstudy Insurance Company  Limiteds handling of his 
motorbike insurance  policy.
Reference to Markerstudy includes their agents.
background
Mr Ss motorbike  was involved in an accident  and was a total loss. He claimed on his policy 
with Markerstudy. Markerstudy valued Mr Ss motorbike using a number of industry accepted 
motor trade  guides.  After  deciding the market  value Markerstudy reduced that by 10% 
because at the time of the accident the motorbike  didnt  have  a valid MOT. They paid Mr S 
£5,997.
Mr S complained because  he felt his motorbike was worth more. One of our investigators  
looked into it. He felt that Markerstudys original valuation before the reduction was 
reasonable. But he said because Markerstudy  couldnt show that the motorbike would have 
failed an MOT test the 10% deduction  was unreasonable.  As Markerstudy  didnt agree with 
our adjudicator, the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Mr Ss policy  says that where her motorbike is a total loss, Markerstudy must pay him the 
pre-accident market value  of it immediately before the accident. I feel that the starting point 
when trying to establish the market value of a motorbike is to look at a number of industry 
trade guides and that is what Markerstudy said they did. The guides are based on extensive  
nationwide research  of likely selling prices. 
Two of the guides returned valuations  of £6,456 and £6,873 respectively. Where there are a 
number of different  guide valuations its accepted practice to average the amounts to find a 
fair valuation. In this case thats £6,664.50 (£6,456 + £6,873  = £13,329  / 2). But having done  
that Markerstudy deducted 10% and paid Mr S £5,997. 
While its correct that the motorbike didnt have  an MOT at the time of the accident theres no 
evidence to suggest it would have failed  an MOT  test. Most policies, like Mr Ss, require a 
vehicle to have  a valid MOT and be roadworthy.  Thats because an unroadworthy vehicle  
may be more prone  to failing and being  involved in an accident. But in this case, although 
Mr Ss motorbike  didnt have an MOT, there is no evidence to suggest that it was in anyway  
unroadworthy or that it would have failed an MOT test. So, I dont think  it was reasonable for 
Markerstudy to make  a deduction from its valuation.
Markerstudy have made the point that they could have refused to pay the claim because 
Mr S was in breach  of his policy terms by not having  an MOT  for his motorbike. But that is a 
separate issue. Markerstudy  didnt hold Mr S in breach of his policy and didnt refuse  his 
claim. So, by accepting his claim as valid I would expect  them  to deal with it reasonably.
Markerstudy have said that our service has in past decisions agreed that an insurer may 
make a deduction because of the absence of a valid MOT.  But each complaint is considered 
Ref: DRN23074202and decided on its own merits.  And given all the circumstances of this complaint,  I dont think  
its reasonable to make  a deduction for the reasons  Ive given above. Im therefore upholding 
Mr Ss complaint. I require  Markerstudy  to settle  the claim on the basis  of the motorbikes 
market value being £6,664.50. As Markerstudy  have already  paid Mr S £5,997 they should 
pay him the balance  of £667.50 (£6,664.50 - £5,997).
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited  to settle Mr Ss claim on the basis of his motorbikes pre-accident  market  
value being £6,664.50. They should pay him a further £667.50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept
or reject my decision before 6 June  2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2307420