K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that MYJAR  Limited  lent to him in an irresponsible  manner.
background
Mr S was given eight loans by MYJAR  between December 2016 and June 2018. Each of the 
loans was due to be repaid in monthly instalments  as shown in the table below.  Mr S 
successfully repaid the first seven loans but a balance remains  outstanding  on the final loan. 
A summary  of Mr Ss borrowing from MYJAR is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  Number of 
Repayments
1 15/12/2016 23/03/2017 £      275 3
2 23/03/2017 18/08/2017 £      925 6
3 16/10/2017 28/02/2018 £   3,600 12
4 04/03/2018 29/03/2018 £      175 6
5 29/03/2018 05/04/2018 £      925 6
6 05/04/2018 30/04/2018 £      650 3
7 30/04/2018 31/05/2018 £   1,475 6
8 03/06/2018 - £   1,800 6
Mr Ss complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She didnt think  MYJAR 
had been wrong  to give the first five loans to Mr S. But she didnt think  the last three loans 
should have been agreed. So she asked MYJAR to pay Mr S some compensation.
MYJAR didnt agree  with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr S accepts  my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
Ref: DRN20120522the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
MYJAR did some checks before it lent to Mr S. It asked him for details  of his income, and his 
normal expenditure. And it checked  his credit  file before agreeing  the loans. Ive seen a 
summary of those checks and I dont  think they showed anything  that should  have caused 
additional concerns to MYJAR.
I think that the checks MYJAR  did before  agreeing  the first two loans were proportionate. 
The amounts that Mr S needed to repay were small compared with the disposable  income 
hed declared.  Given  these repayment amounts, what  was apparent  about  Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for MYJAR to ask him for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable  before agreeing  the first two loans. 
The amount  that Mr S asked to borrow on loan 3 was substantial. And even though hed 
agreed to repay the loan over 12 months  the monthly repayment he needed  to make took up 
a fair proportion of his declared income.  So I dont think it was reasonable for MYJAR to 
base its lending decision on the information Mr S had provided. I think MYJAR should  have 
taken steps to independently  verify  Mr Ss true financial position.
We asked Mr S to provide  us with copies of his bank statements from the time he applied for 
the loans, so we could  see what information  MYJAR shouldve taken into account before 
agreeing to lend to him. Mr S hasnt given us the information we asked for, or an explanation  
Ref: DRN20120523why he cant provide it. Our adjudicator  explained why we need the information and the likely 
consequences of us not receiving it. Despite that, Mr S still hasnt given us what we asked 
for. So, I havent been able to get a picture  of what his financial circumstances  were  like at 
the relevant time. That means I cant say that if MYJAR had completed sufficient checks it 
wouldve found that Mr S couldnt sustainably afford to repay  the loans. 
But looking  at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending history  with Mr S I think  by loan 6 the 
lender should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise  
harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it shouldnt provide further loans. 
I say this because:
By this time Mr S had been  borrowing, with barely any break, from MYJAR for almost  
14 months. In that time he had taken five previous loans. And more recently Mr S 
had repaid those  loans  far earlier than planned, but borrowed again very shortly  
afterwards. I think the length  of time hed been borrowing and the emerging pattern of 
frequent borrowing and repaying  early should have indicated  to MYJAR that Mr S 
was most likely having significant  problems  managing his money. 
When Mr S asked  for loan 6 he wasnt making  any inroads to the amount he owed 
the lender. Loan  6 was significantly bigger than the first loan hed taken 14 months  
earlier. Mr Ss indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Loan 7 was taken on the same day that loan 6 had been repaid early  and was for a 
much larger  amount. Loan 8 was taken just three days  after loan 7 had been repaid 
early, and was for a larger amount again. MYJAR ought to have realised it was more 
likely than not Mr S was having to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying his 
previous loans was leaving  in his finances.
I think that Mr S lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ss 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
In summary  I dont think MYJAR should  have agreed to give loans 6 to 8 to Mr S. MYJAR 
needs to pay him some  compensation.
Ref: DRN20120524putting things right
I dont think MYJAR should have  agreed to lend to Mr S after, and including, the loan that he 
took on 5 April 2018 (loan 6). So for each of those loans MYJAR should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr S on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans  taken from loans 6 onwards means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  6 and 7, and loan 8 once it has been  fully 
repaid, should  be removed  from Mr Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
It appears that Mr S still owes  MYJAR  most of the principal  balance he borrowed on his final 
loan. MYJAR may use the compensation that is due to him to reduce that outstanding 
amount. But, to be clear, that outstanding balance should be recalculated  to remove  any 
interest and charges, but taking account  of any repayments Mr S has made on that loan as 
though they were applied  against the principal sum borrowed. If, as seems likely, a balance 
remains outstanding  on that loan MYJAR should  attempt to reach  a mutually  agreeable 
repayment arrangement  with Mr S. But in doing so it should remember  its responsibility  to 
treat him positively  and sympathetically in any discussions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ss complaint and direct  MYJAR Limited  to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2012052