K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Allianz Insurance Plc has declined to pay for her new kitchen  as part of 
her accepted subsidence claim, which she made on her home  insurance policy.  Mrs S also 
complains other costs are yet to be paid, about  how the claim was handled, and about 
issues shes since experienced when trying to obtain cover  elsewhere.
background
Mrs S made the claim in 2012. Shes since had complaints about the claim considered by 
this service in February and December 2015, and January 2017. As such, Im only 
considering whats  happened since our last final decision, in January 2017.
Mrs S made the following  points:
-Her kitchen had to be replaced, but Allianz  has declined to cover this part of her 
claim.
-When Mrs S and her family returned home from their alternative accommodation, 
Allianz paid her a disturbance allowance due to her kitchen being out of use. 
However, Mrs S says this allowance was only paid until Mid-April, and the 
replacement kitchen  wasnt fitted  until mid-May.
-Mrs S estimates that she lost food worth between £200 and £250 due to issues  with 
the fridge and freezer at the first property they were  moved  to, and due to having 
nowhere to store  food when they returned home.
-Mrs S says she still needs to be reimbursed  £280 for the cost of a mini oven, fridge, 
microwave, crockery, cutlery, and dog gate. Mrs S says she purchased  these items 
on their return  home due to their kitchen being out of use.
-Mrs S says some items were ruined whilst  in storage. She says water had stained 
her tumble dryer and left a metallic smell inside;  the dishwasher was cracked  and 
mouldy; the fridge-freezers  were mouldy; and the toaster  was broken.
-Mrs S says £300 for the final coat of paint to the kitchen and utility room was agreed 
but not paid. She says this is something Allianzs contractor stated should  be cash  
settled during his site visit.
-Mrs S says that between January and September 2017, the claim handler at the loss 
adjusters repeatedly  failed to follow through on promises. A new claim handler was 
later appointed, which caused  further delays; and it was evident he had other 
priorities training  new recruits.
-Due to the delays, Allianz arranged for its builders to temporarily improve the look of 
the kitchen before  Christmas 2017  by partially  filling cracks, painting  the walls,  and 
fitting cheap vinyl flooring.  Mrs S says that she signed herself out of hospital, so the 
builders had access to complete the work. However,  the decorator arrived without 
adequate materials  and he only partially  completed the painting  as he refused to 
move any appliances. The vinyl flooring was ripped during the fitting,  and the 
washing machine  was damaged. The new vinyl flooring  was flooded during 
Christmas by the washing machine, and Mrs S had to cancel a trip away. 
Ref: DRN28229392-Mrs S says the plan to start the works  was delayed two months.
-In 2017, Mrs Ss local authority identified the need for a ground floor bathroom and 
bedroom for her disabled son. Shes emphasised how crucial the extension was in 
order to alleviate the pressure on her family. She says the grant couldnt progress 
until Allianz issued  a certificate of structural adequacy, and this wasnt done until 
February 2019. She says that this didnt leave enough time to process the grant  
application before  her son became  18, potentially leaving her liable for £17,000. 
Mrs S says this caused anguish,  and her family was deprived of much needed 
facilities for two years.  Mrs S also says the certificate contained errors.
-Mrs S says there  were  works  going  on at the first property they were moved to. She 
says the works delayed  their move, and there were  multiple issues during their stay.  
She says she had countless  visits by property managers and various tradespeople, 
including over Christmas. Mrs S says they were woken by bailiffs  during Christmas 
week, looking for someone not related  to her  which  she found traumatising and 
embarrassing. She also highlighted the impact of unexpected visitors, noise, and 
dust on her son due to his disabilities.  Mrs S also says her family noticed their 
asthma had become  worse, and they found mould  hidden behind furniture. 
-Mrs S noted that the second alternative property wasnt  confirmed until three days 
before their stay at the first property was due to end, which caused a great deal of 
stress and uncertainty. Mrs S noted  the impact  on her son due to his disability and 
she said the avoidable stress  and anxiety resulted  in him having an asthma and 
panic attack, and he was taken to hospital by ambulance.
-Mrs S highlighted the impact their home  environment had on her disabled son, after 
they returned home with works  incomplete;  and the impact on herself and her other 
son, who struggles  with stress. Mrs S says Allianz insisted on the contents of their 
kitchen and utility  rooms being returned at the start of April before the kitchen had 
been fitted and the floor covering had been applied. She says that everything  was 
stacked in their living  room for weeks.
-Mrs S was copied in to an email between the builders and surveyor where she was 
referred to as a tricky customer. She says this caused her upset.
-The schedule stated  Mrs Ss floor was timber,  but chipboard was fitted instead. She 
says this was a nightmare to sort out because her kitchen had been placed on top. 
She says Allianzs builders used an electric saw to remove  the chipboard leaving 
clothing, bedding, and furniture coated in toxic dust, and she had difficulties 
breathing due to the dust inhalation.
-Mrs S says it took seven months  for Allianz  to issue an interim cash  settlement, and 
she wasnt reimbursed for the second alternative  property  costs  for nearly  a year.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, and she thought it should be upheld. She 
thought Allianz  should cover the replacement kitchen and increase the compensation it had 
offered from £600 to £750. Allianz  agreed with the compensation, but not the kitchen costs. 
Mrs S was also unhappy with the recommended compensation. Because  both parties 
disagreed with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN28229393Mrs S also had another case with our service,  which was about Allianz no longer offering her 
cover after it withdrew from the personal  home  insurance market,  and the difficulties she 
experienced finding alternative cover. That case was yet to be assessed by one of our 
investigators. Mrs S made the following  points:
-Mrs S was without cover from 7th January 2020.  She says that prospective insurers  
needed a copy  of the certificate of structural adequacy and this wasnt  received until 
March 2020. She also says that the certificate  stated it couldnt  be shared unless a 
fee is paid, and as of March 2020, she was still waiting for clarity on this. She also 
says due to discrepancies between the cause of the subsidence  cited  by Allianzs 
surveyor and what was on the certificate, she had problems obtaining  insurance.  
-Mrs S says being without insurance  left her sick with worry and caused great  anxiety. 
Mrs S later told us that a Liverpool  Victoria General Insurance Group (LV) policy was 
incepted on 3 July 2020, arranged by her broker. She understood this to have been 
prompted by her complaint to our service. 
I considered it to be in all the parties  interests for me to consider those cover issues  as part 
of this case, given  they are linked to the subsidence claim. Allianz agreed, so we closed the 
other case.
I issued my provisional decision in December 2020.  I explained  that I intended to uphold  the 
complaint in part. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Mrs S has raised multiple points. However,  its not our role to comment on every point made. 
Its for me to determine the crux of a complaint and to address the issues I consider relevant 
to its outcome. I have  carefully considered Mrs Ss submissions, and where I havent directly  
commented on her points, this isnt intended  as a discourtesy; but rather, this reflects  the 
informal nature of our service, its remit, and my role in it.
In the background section of this decision, Ive set out the points I consider relevant. Ive 
already shared these with Allianz, along  with my initial thoughts. Allianz  has provided a 
response, which Ive considered.
I will set out my provisional findings under  the following headings: kitchen replacement; 
disturbance allowance; other outstanding  costs;  delays and distress; and cover.
kitchen replacement
Allianzs position appeared to be that the kitchen  was already in a poor state of repair; and 
Mrs S had asked for changes to be made to the stud work, island, and plumbing as she 
wished to replace  and remodel the kitchen herself   and these changes meant her old 
kitchen couldnt  be refitted.
Ref: DRN28229394Ive explained  to Allianz I havent seen anything within  its file that, in my view, supports the 
kitchen was in a poor condition before it was stripped out. Ive also seen emails  between  
Allianzs loss adjuster  and contractor where  there  is acceptance that moving the kitchen 
between locations  hasnt helped its condition  and it follows that if the kitchen suffered 
damage due to how it was stored or moved by Allianz, then its responsible for its 
deterioration as part of the claim.
In terms of the remodel,  theres no signed agreement to say the alterations were being  made  
at Mrs Ss request or on what basis. Its also my understanding that these discussions took 
place with the previous contractors and loss adjusters, and if so, I dont  consider  the new 
loss adjusters or new contractors to be well placed  in terms of knowing what  agreements 
were made  and certainly not better  placed  than Mrs S. Ive also highlighted emails  to 
Allianz which, in my view,  support Allianz  had agreed to replace the kitchen. 
At a late stage, Allianz offered  for the alterations to be reversed and the old kitchen refitted. 
However, Ive highlighted an email to Allianz which says that solution is very unlikely. 
Furthermore, Im not persuaded that putting Mrs S and her family through  that further  
upheaval would have been entirely  reasonable  particularly given their personal 
circumstances and how long this claim had been  ongoing. 
I acknowledged an email  that Allianz  had pointed towards to support its position. However, 
I explained that, on balance, and in view of all the inconsistencies, I wasnt  persuaded the 
email was enough for me to fairly  decide  the kitchen was already in a poor condition  or 
Mrs S chose to remodel her kitchen  on the understanding she would be paying for the 
replacement.
Allianz has maintained  its not responsible for the replacement  kitchen  because  it offered to 
reverse the alterations and reinstate the old kitchen. However, without any new arguments 
or evidence,  my view about whether that was possible or reasonable remains the same. 
Allianzs contractors scoped the replacement kitchen at £9,550. Mrs S says the new kitchen 
was replaced for £4,490. Shes provided  two invoices  which  supports what  she says.  
Therefore, I dont consider her chosen  replacement to have been  unreasonable. 
The invoices dont  include  a breakdown, so Ive assumed the costs include fitting. If Mrs S 
has paid an additional  fee for the fitting, she should provide evidence to support this.
In conclusion, I intend to decide  that Allianz should  settle the kitchen at £4,490, less £100 its 
already paid for damage caused  to the old kitchen  and any amount already included in the 
cash settlement for fitting. 
If Allianz is of the opinion  that the cash settlement  included fitting  costs,  it should provide 
evidence so I can deduct this amount from any settlement I award  in my final decision. 
Should Allianz not provide  this evidence, the amount will not be deducted.
Allianz will also need to pay interest at 8% simple per year on this part of the settlement, 
from the date of the invoices (25 April 2019) until the date of settlement. 
disturbance allowance
Mrs S says she was paid disturbance allowance until Mid-April, but the new kitchen wasnt  
fitted until mid-May. So, she would like a further  months allowance.
Ref: DRN28229395Disturbance allowance isnt compensation for inconvenience.  Its compensation for the extra 
costs incurred by remaining  in a property that is without certain amenities. Here, Mrs S was 
without her kitchen. I understand that Allianz  agreed  to pay £10 per day for each person in 
the household, plus £45 per week for laundry costs. This equates to £1,020 for four weeks. 
This allowance  is in-line with our general  approach.
Ive not seen anything that suggests  Mrs S delayed the new kitchen being fitted. So, given 
what Ive said about Allianz being  responsible  for replacing the kitchen, on balance, Im 
persuaded a further four weeks disturbance  allowance  should be paid. 
Mrs S also says that shes yet to be reimbursed for a mini oven,  fridge, microwave,  crockery, 
cutlery, and dog gate.  However, the purpose of the disturbance allowance  was to cover such 
extra costs.  Therefore, for me to reasonably  decide  that Allianz needs to reimburse  these 
costs, in addition  to paying disturbance allowance, Mrs S would need to show  that being  
without a kitchen  caused her costs above  the disturbance allowance  paid.
other outstanding costs
Mrs S estimates that she lost food worth about  £250. Allianz says it agreed with Mrs S that it 
would reimburse  £50 for lost food, and this has been paid. Given thats the case, and Mrs S 
has received a disturbance allowance for being  without kitchen facilities,  Im not persuaded 
Allianz needs to pay Mrs S anything further here. 
In respect of the items  damaged in storage, Ive not seen any photographic evidence, and 
Im not persuaded the mould issue wasnt easily addressed. I also havent seen this was 
raised with Allianz  at the time. So, Im not persuaded Allianz needs to cover  these costs.
In respect of the final coat of paint,  I understand the remaining  works  were cash  settled and 
that offer was accepted.  So, Im not persuaded Allianz now needs to revisit that offer and 
pay a further £300.
delays and distress
Ive put the points Mrs S has made, which  are set out in the background section of this 
decision, to Allianz.
Allianz says the delays  to starting the work, which led to temporary works around Christmas 
2017, were due to Mrs Ss own concerns  that the subsidence  mitigation works hadnt been 
effective. Allianz says further  monitoring was agreed  to satisfy those concerns. Allianz also 
says that trades were  booked in to complete decorations, but Mrs S cancelled  them  as she 
wasnt well. Nonetheless, Allianz has previously acknowledged there were further delays 
when it offered Mrs S £600 to apologise. Ive also seen emails that support Mrs Ss 
frustrations in respect of the new claim handler.
 
In terms of the damaged vinyl flooring,  Allianz says Mrs S damaged this herself when pulling 
out the washing machine. Allianz  also doesnt consider it likely that its contractors damaged 
the door seal that led to the leak, but it agreed to put the damage right as the costs  were 
minimal. Regardless of who,  if anybody, was at fault for the damage  to the flooring and 
washing machine,  Allianz  resolved the matter. Therefore, I cant  reasonably  award 
compensation for this.
Ref: DRN28229396Allianz also says that it had frequent discussions with Mrs S throughout the repairs,  and the 
need for the certificate of structural adequacy  was never raised.  Allianz said had the matter  
been raised, it could  have  provided the certificate  before  the works were  completed.  I dont 
know what discussions took place,  but I havent  seen  anything that suggests Mrs S alerted 
Allianz to the urgency of this. On balance, had Allianz been made aware Mrs S needed the 
certificate for the grant, I consider it likely it would have acted given the implications for her 
family. So, based on the information Ive seen so far, I cant reasonable decide Allianz did 
something wrong here.
Mrs S has highlighted the impact their home  environment had on her family  after their return,  
and Ive no doubt the situation was very difficult for them. However, I havent seen or been 
told anything that suggests Mrs S was asked to return home against her wishes  or Mrs S 
told Allianz she preferred  to stay in alternative accommodation rather  than receiving the 
disturbance allowance.
Mrs S says Allianz insisted on the contents  of the kitchen and utility  rooms being returned at 
the start of April,  before the kitchen had been  fitted and the floor covering had been applied.  
Allianz says Mrs S arranged the return of her contents in April, not Allianz. However,  on 
balance, Im persuaded Mrs S was given the impression her storage costs  wouldnt be 
covered beyond April given thats  when  the disturbance allowance  also ended. 
In respect of Mrs Ss experiences at the alternative accommodation, Im not persuaded I can 
reasonably hold Allianz responsible for her sons asthma and panic attack. Nonetheless, Ive 
put the other  alternative accommodation issues to Allianz and its not commented  on these 
points. Allianz also hasnt commented  on the issue with the chipboard floor or the payment 
delays. Allianz has previously accepted Mrs S was caused upset by the tricky customer 
comment.
Considering everything  Ive said under  this heading, along with the upset caused  by Allianzs 
position regarding  the kitchen, I intend  to increase the compensation award  to £1,000.  To be 
clear, Im not upholding all the points Mrs S has raised, but Im persuaded some issues have 
occurred since our last final decision and these have had an impact on Mrs S and her family 
given their personal circumstances and the history of this claim. 
cover
Following Allianzs withdrawal from the personal  home insurance market,  it didnt renew  its 
existing policies. This meant that Mrs Ss cover with Allianz came to an end. However,  its 
my understanding her broker was able to source  alternative cover with LV, with the policy 
starting in January 2019  immediately  after the Allianz policy  ended. Allianz (a majority 
shareholder in LV) says LV has confirmed that Mrs Ss LV premiums and cover  wasnt 
affected by the subsidence history. 
Given Mrs S was able to source  a replacement policy that didnt charge her more due to the 
subsidence history  at her property, or restrict her cover, I cant  reasonably decide Allianzs 
exit from the market unfairly affected  her, or that Allianz needed  to do something more  to 
support her. 
In December 2019, Mrs Ss broker wrote  to her to explain LV wasnt prepared  to continue  
providing her cover  at renewal due to the previous subsidence at the property, and the 
broker couldnt find alternative cover. This meant Mrs S was left without cover  from 
January 2020.  Mrs S complained to Allianz, and it referred her back to her broker.
Ref: DRN28229397Based on the information Ive seen, its not clear why LV changed its position a year after 
insuring Mrs S. I can understand why Mrs S addressed her complaint to Allianz  given the 
brokers letter cited previous subsidence.  However, neither LVs position or the brokers  
understanding of LVs position, are matters  for Allianz. If Mrs S is unhappy about what  
happened when  the LV policy was due to renew,  she needs to complain to LV and her 
broker.
I appreciate Mrs S was left without cover for six months and I accept that would have  been  
worrying for her, but I havent  seen anything that leads me to conclude Allianz was at fault.  
Allianz has also explained it contacted LV in the background on several occasions, after it 
became aware  of the situation, to encourage LV to contact the broker  about the renewal  
issues. I understand the matter was then resolved and another  LV policy  was incepted.  
As I say, I dont know why the renewal didnt go through in January 2020, but thats not a 
matter for Allianz and Mrs S will need to ask that question of her broker and LV to 
understand if either of those two parties made an error.
I acknowledge that Mrs S also says she couldnt find alternative cover between  January and 
July 2020 due to issues with the certificate of structural adequacy. However, I havent seen 
anything that shows she was chasing the certificate, or she had informed Allianz  this was 
preventing her from taking  out insurance. I also havent seen  there were issues with the 
certificate once received   or again,  these issues directly prevented her from taking out 
insurance. In relation  to the grant, Mrs S also explained the certificate was received in 
February 2019, which contradicts what she later said about  it not being  received until
March 2020. So, I cant reasonably uphold  her complaint about this.
In response to my provisional decision,  Allianz explained its cash settlement included  £874 
for refitting  the old kitchen and it provided a breakdown by way of evidence.  It provided no 
further comments for me to consider.
Mrs S made the following  points, and provided  copies of emails to support of some of the 
points made:
-The £4,490  kitchen invoice didnt include fitting.  Mrs S says the supplier  doesnt  offer 
a fitting service in her area, and this is something  she paid for separately.  However, 
she said she wasnt claiming for her fitting costs as the cash settlement made an 
allowance for this (although she wasnt convinced the allowance  covered all her 
costs). Mrs S said she can ask the kitchen supplier  to confirm that fitting wasnt 
included in the invoice, if necessary.
-In respect of the grant  to amend  Mrs Ss property for her sons needs, she sent the 
loss adjusters a letter  from the council in July 2018, and although the loss adjusters 
replied, she says its response was insufficient. Mrs S says the loss adjusters said a 
certificate of structural adequacy  would satisfy  the council, but this wasnt  received 
until February 2019 despite her chasing.  Mrs S clarified the certificate  was flawed 
and a factually  correct certificate wasnt received  until March  2020. She said the 
certificate issues affected the ground  floor facilities  needed for her son, and her 
ability to obtain  alternative cover  in 2020.
-Mrs S says she made her upset at being asked to return  home before the works  were 
complete well known  to the loss adjusters and Allianz. 
Ref: DRN28229398-Mrs S says shes owed another months  storage  costs, given the items were returned  
earlier than they ought to have  been. She accepted my provisional findings  about the 
items damaged  in storage,  but she also noted  she had told Allianz about the damage 
as soon as it was discovered  which is when the items were unwrapped after her 
new kitchen was fitted.
-Allianz didnt resolve the washing machine issue as it continued to deny liability;  and 
Mrs S had to pay about £80 to repair the appliance.
-The £50 for lost food hasnt  been paid because Mrs S didnt cash the cheque. She 
thought cashing the cheque would be deemed  acceptance of Allianzs initial  
compensation offer.
-Mrs S has since made a complaint to LV about it declining  to renew her policy in 
January 2020.  LV has accepted it made an error; but shes  unhappy  with its 
response and offer,  so shes responded to LV.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I will focus on the further points made.
Ill start with the kitchen  fitting costs. Mrs S hasnt provided a separate  invoice for her kitchen 
fitting costs. However,  Ive seen from the suppliers  website  that it doesnt  install  its products. 
So, on balance, I accept  Mrs S paid separately  for this. Therefore, I wont  be deducting the 
£874 Allianz has already given to Mrs S for refitting  her old kitchen, from her replacement 
kitchen invoice. But equally, although  Mrs S doesnt  think Allianzs fitting  allowance  was 
enough to cover her actual fitting  costs, I wont be increasing the £874 as she hasnt 
provided any information to support this.
In respect of the certificate of structural adequacy,  there are two issue that have been raised. 
The first is the grant application was affected, and the second is Mrs S was prevented from 
taking out insurance,  leaving her uninsured.  Ill address these in turn.
The information Mrs S has provided  shows the loss adjusters gave her a letter  in July 2018, 
but she felt she couldnt  pass this on to the local authority  officer dealing with the grant,  as it 
referred to a time-limit in respect of Allianzs  responsibility for future movement.  In view of a 
final decision  issued by this service, Mrs S didnt  think a time-limit applied; and she thought  
reference to a time-limit  would delay the grant application. However, the information  also 
shows the loss adjusters  then provided an updated letter that same  month;  which Mrs S 
acknowledged, noting her concerns had been addressed.
In the email exchanges, Mrs S noted  the local authority was seeking written  assurance that 
movement of the existing buildings had ceased.  She also said it had indicated it will also 
need to see a certificate of satisfactory completion  of works. 
Ref: DRN28229399I acknowledge that in July 2018,  Mrs S made Allianz aware the information  for the grant  was 
urgent. But based on the information  Ive seen,  her requests at that time didnt include the 
certificate of structural adequacy,  and I havent  seen she expressed any concern with the 
updated letter. I also havent seen anything that shows  Mrs S was chasing Allianz for the 
certificate between July 2018 and when it was provided in February  2019. Furthermore, 
although Mrs S says the certificate was flawed,  Ive not seen those issues impacted the 
grant application. Ive only seen that Mrs S asked  for the certificate  to be amended in 
February 2020, due to her concern about some  details affecting her ability  to obtain 
insurance. Therefore,  based on the information presented, Im not persuaded I can 
reasonably decide Allianz  affected the grant  application.
In terms of the details  on the certificate  preventing Mrs S from obtaining  insurance,  Ive seen 
that in January 2020, her broker  explained proof  the property was stable was needed. Mrs S 
then contacted Allianz and asked for some amendments to the certificate. However,  these 
amendments didnt  relate to the stability of the property  and I havent  seen that the original 
certificate was provided to her broker and this deemed insufficient. So, whilst I understand 
why Mrs S wanted the certificate to be as accurate as possible, in my view, I cant 
reasonably decide the original certificate prevented  her from obtaining insurance.
Turning to Mrs Ss return to the property, shes provided emails  that show she was unhappy 
about returning whilst works were  incomplete.  So, I accept she was asked to return against  
her wishes.  However, whilst I dont doubt the upset and inconvenience  caused by Allianzs 
decision, particularly  given Mrs Ss familys needs, the house wasnt  unhabitable. Overall, 
Im not persuaded I can reasonably award  anything further here given the disturbance  
allowance.
In respect of another  months storage costs, its my understanding the items were  returned. 
So, I cant award a sum for costs that werent  incurred. However, the compensation award  
outlined in my provisional decision, did account for the inconvenience caused by the items  
being returned before the kitchen had been  fitted. 
In terms of the items damaged  in storage, I have now seen Mrs S raised  this in May 2019.  
However, I still havent been shown anything that shows the damage caused, such as 
photos. Therefore,  Im still not persuaded I can reasonably decide Allianz needs to 
compensate Mrs S for this issue.
In respect of the washing machine, I accept  Mrs S incurred costs having the gasket repaired. 
However, although I have seen  the engineer noted the contractors  had pulled the gasket off 
when moving the appliance, I consider it likely  that his comments were simply a reflection of 
what Mrs S had told him. In my view, the engineers  comments  are not persuasive  evidence 
the contractors damaged  the washing machine. In any event, Allianz repaired the damage  
caused by the leak and Im satisfied the £1,000  compensation reasonably  covers  any 
additional costs  incurred.
In respect of the £50 for lost food, if the cheque wasnt cashed and is no longer valid,  Allianz 
will need  to reissue  the payment (subject  to Allianz  satisfying  itself the cheque hasnt been 
cashed). The same  applies to the £600  compensation  Allianz initially  offered. As an aside, 
its unclear whether the £50 for food formed part of the £600 payment. So, to be clear, the 
£50 Allianz offered for lost food is separate to the £1,000 compensation Im awarding for 
delays and distress.
Ref: DRN282293910Finally, Mrs S has expressed shes unhappy with LVs response to the complaint shes  now 
made to it. Its not appropriate for me to comment on that matter here, as this complaint is 
against Allianz, not LV. However, if she has received a final response from LV, setting out 
her right to refer the complaint to us, and she now wants us to consider the matter, she 
needs to let our investigator know. If Mrs S doesnt ask us to investigate  her complaint 
against LV within  six months of its final response, we might not be able to do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint in 
part. My final decision  is Allianz  Insurance Plc should:
-settle the replacement kitchen for £4,490, less £100 already paid for damage  to the 
old kitchen (so, £4,390);
-pay interest1 at 8% simple per year on the kitchen settlement, from 25 April 2019 until 
the date of settlement;
-pay a further £1,020  for disturbance allowance; 
-pay £1,000  compensation (if the £600 originally offered has already been  paid, a 
further £400 would be due); and 
-pay £50 for lost food (in addition to the £1,000 compensation), if not yet paid
I make  no other awards.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
1If Allianz Insurance  Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct income tax 
from any interest paid, it should tell Mrs S how much  its taken off. It should  also provide  a certificate 
showing the amount deducted, if requested,  so she can reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN2822939