K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the maturity value  they received from The Prudential 
Assurance Company  Limited when their mortgage  endowment policy matured. They  say 
Prudential used a set of rules  that didnt apply to their policy  which meant units were  
incorrected allocated.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out this unit-linked mortgage endowment policy  in December 1991. It 
had a minimum death benefit (and target maturity amount) of £75,000, a monthly premium of 
£123.90 and a 25 year term. The premiums were  invested in the with-profits  fund. When  the 
policy matured a sum of just under  £59,000  was paid to Mr and Mrs W.
Mr and Mrs W complained that sum should  be higher as they think units were  incorrectly  
allocated. There was confusion over which terms and conditions  should be used for 
Mr and Mrs Ws policy, but once that was resolved our adjudicator said the policy had been 
run in accordance with the correct terms. Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree  and so its been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I trust Mr and Mrs W wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute  resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  point 
its not because  Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.  
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what  questions  should be asked or 
answered.
This service isnt a regulator and its not our role to comment  on the numbering of the 
various policy documents. Whilst the numbering caused confusion  whilst this complaint was 
being looked at, Im satisfied Im looking at the correct document that was applicable to 
Mr and Mrs Ws policy. That is the four-page document  entitled  Rules for Home  Purchaser 
(Second Series) (Alliance & Leicester  Version) with document code R270/06/91.
Mr and Mrs W say the bonuses  should  have been  added as type B units  rather  than type  
A units pointing to section 5.1 of the document. This says:
Any units  allocated to the policy on payment of a premium  due within the three  year 
period commencing  on the Date of Currency shall be known as type A units () All 
other units shall be known  as type B units.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ws confusion here upon reading that in isolation. However it 
must be read as part of the whole document and section  2.4 says:
Ref: DRN20502892The Fund shall participate in the profits of Scottish  Amicable. Profits  may be distributed  
by allocating additional units to the policy, to be known as bonus units
If Mr and Mrs W were correct and the bonuses would all just be all added as type B units 
then this section  wouldnt separately refer to them as bonus units. Its clear from this that 
bonus units  are something completely different from the standard  type A units and type B 
units referred to in section 5.1. 
In fact the policy had four different types of units type A basic  units, type  A bonus units,  
type B basic units and type B bonus  units. Whilst this isnt made  specifically clear  in the 
document Mr and Mrs W had, it also doesnt specifically say anything  contrary to that. 
Scottish Amicable (as it was then)  didnt  offer a policy that acted as Mr and Mrs W thought 
this one did. So its not a matter of Prudential using the wrong policy  terms its simply that 
the other policy terms - both the longer version issued for Scottish Amicable direct business 
at the time and the later amended Alliance  & Leicester version including  critical illness cover 
 went into that greater level of detail.
I appreciate that Prudential has given Mr and Mrs W conflicting information about  the various 
documents which hasnt  been helpful.  And I understand Mr and Mrs W think  the terms are 
different, and the bonuses should  have all been  allocated as type B units. However,  Ive 
looked at everything  as a whole picture, rather than one section of one document in isolation 
and I think Prudential has allocated the bonuses correctly. And whilst I agree that the 
information could  have been  presented more clearly  in Mr and Mrs Ws policy  terms, I dont 
think Mr and Mrs W have  been treated unfairly as the policy could never  have run how they 
thought it did. I dont think Mr and Mrs W would  have done anything  differently if the full 
information about the four types  of unit was set out in their policy  terms, as Im satisfied they 
would still have taken  out the policy. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 August  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2050289