K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Morses Club PLC acted irresponsibly when  it provided  him with 
unaffordable doorstep  loans.
 
background
Mr B took seven home-collected loans with Morses Club between  November 2014 and May 
2017. This table  includes  some  of the information provided to us by Morses  Club about  
Mr Bs loans.
 date 
takenprincipal 
amountrepaidterm 
(weeks)weekly  
instalmentshighest 
amounts to 
be repaid
Loan 1 05/11/14 £1,000.00 50 £35.00 £35.00
Loan 2 03/07/15 £300.00 18/05/16 50 £10.50 £45.50
Loan 3 06/11/15 £1,000.00 09/11/16 52 £35.00 £45.50
Loan 4 £200.00 09/11/16 33 £10.00
Loan 518/05/16£400.00 15/05/17 52 £14.00£59.00
Loan 6 09/11/16 £1,000.00 outstanding 52 £35.00 £49.00
Loan 7 15/05/17 £500.00 outstanding 52 £17.50 £52.50
The amounts of the loans varied.  Although Loan 4 was for £200, it was taken on the same 
day as Loan 5, meaning Mr B borrowed £600 on 18 May 2016. Otherwise the lowest  amount 
Mr B borrowed was £300. On three occasions he borrowed  £1,000. The terms varied.  Apart 
from Loan 4 which was taken over 33 weeks,  the other loans were taken over 50 or 52 
weeks. 
When Mr B complained to Morses  Club, it didnt agree that it had been irresponsible. So he 
brought his complaint to this Service. One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Bs 
complaint and recommended that it be upheld  in part and that Morses Club put things right. 
It doesnt agree and so the complaint has come  to me  an ombudsman  for a decision. If 
Mr B accepts my decision it will be binding on the parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Morses Club provided the loans in question while it was authorised and regulated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA).
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with. These  included  PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: A firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Ref: DRN26122532The Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC)  set out the rules  and guidance which  apply to 
credit providers like Morses Club when  providing  loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations 
in relation to responsible lending.  
Section 5.2.1R of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
borrower a loan saying:
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must undertake
an assessment of the creditworthiness of the customer.
And at Section  5.2.1(2) a lender had to consider:
(a) the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  is to 
be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of 
the regulated  credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable  period.
CONC also included guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) 
saying:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  
on, for example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought  and the potential  risks to 
the customer. The risk of credit not being  sustainable directly  relates  to the amount  of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit  relative  to the customers  financial 
situation.
CONC 5.3 contained further  guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking 
about affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) saying:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account  more than assessing the customers ability 
to repay  the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then added:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps  to assess the customers  ability to 
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner 
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse  
consequences.
CONC 5.3.1G(6) clarified  what is meant  by sustainable:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated 
credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue  difficulties, in particular:
Ref: DRN26122533(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within  a reasonable period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and 
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
CONC 5.3.1G (4) added that if a firm does take account of income and expenditure in its 
credit worthiness assessment:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
(c) its assessment should be based  on what  the firm knows at the time of the 
assessment
Whilst CONC sets out the regulatory framework that authorised consumer credit providers 
have to adhere to it represents a minimum standard for firms. And - as an ombudsman - Im 
also required  to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are some overarching  questions  I need  to consider in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Bs  complaint: 
Did Morses Club complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that 
Mr B would be able to repay his loans in a sustainable way?  
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr B wouldve been  able to do 
so?
Did Morses Club act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive outlined above some  of the regulations in place at the time Morses Club provided the 
loans to Mr B. It had to carry  out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he 
could afford  to repay them in a sustainable  way. 
The checks  Morses Club did, had to be proportionate to the specific  circumstances of each 
loan.  And  what is proportionate  will depend on a number  of factors  including  things like the 
consumers financial history and current situation as well as things such  as the amount, type, 
and cost of the credit  being sought.
Ref: DRN26122534It is important  to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent  and scope and the types  and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough  to be able to reasonably  assess  the sustainability  
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other  words, the assessment needs  to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the Morses Club of not recovering its money but of the risk to Mr B  of incurring  
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequence  as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC,  the risk to the consumer  directly  relates  to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would  likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed  what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one 
situation might not be so for the same consumer in other situations.  
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment  of creditworthiness  to vary,  
dependent on the circumstances.  In general,  Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance, 
the greater the potential  risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a 
sustainable way. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Morses Club should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So Morses  Club was required to establish  whether Mr B could sustainably  repay  his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable  on this basis might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because  as I've set out above   CONC defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. 
It follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  what a reasonable and proportionate check  shouldve  looked like 
when Morses Club was in the process of approving the loans for Mr B. 
Ref: DRN26122535Ive only seen limited  information  about  Loan 1. It was for a relatively high amount - £1,000.  
And it was repayable over 50 weeks at £35 per week. Morses  Club tells us that Mr B 
declared a weekly  income  of £305.  Based on the information I have I cant  safely say that 
Morses Club was irresponsible  when it approved this loan and so I'm not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint about  it. 
However, when Mr B applied for Loan  2 it seems that Loan 1 was still outstanding. This loan 
was for a smaller amount  - £300 but the repayments of £10.50 per week meant that Mr B 
was going to have to repay £45.50 each week in total for the two live loans.  Mr B told 
Morses Club that his weekly income  was £300. So before he paid anything towards his 
housing or other normal living costs,  around one-sixth of his income  was going towards 
repaying Loans 1 and 2. Morses Club did ask Mr B about some of his outgoings. He told it 
that he paid £125 for housing and £26 for utility bills. But he declared zero for other loans, 
living costs  such as food and transport and other  outgoings. 
Mr B was going to be repaying a significant part of his income towards these two live loans 
each week. And I dont think it was reasonable for Morses Club to think that hed be able to 
do so sustainably on the information it had. From his weekly  income of £300  he was going to 
be left with around £100 from which  to pay for his food,  transport,  other creditors and all 
other outgoings - for example telephone, internet,  clothes, insurances and so on. Morses 
Club has told us that Mr B declared  that he had no reason  to believe his circumstances 
would change in the following twelve months.   But I dont think Morses Club was reasonable 
to conclude he could  afford this loan sustainably from the start  from point it was granted.  
Around four months after taking Loan 2, Mr B applied for Loan 3. It seems that in the 
meantime hed repaid Loan 1. But Loan  3 was again  for the relatively high amount of £1,000. 
On the day he took this loan he repaid £45 towards  Loan 2. Since taking Loan 2 hed been 
repaying it monthly in cash to the Morses Club agent  usually at £45 per month. Loan 3 was 
taken over 52 weeks and was due to be repaid at £35 per week. So again Mr B was now 
required to pay a total of £45.50 every week to Morses  Club for his two live loans (Loans 2 
and 3). And it had now been a year since he started to borrow  from Morses Club.  
On this occasion Mr B told Morses  Club that his weekly income was £300. He added that he 
paid £145 for housing  and £100 for utility bills  a total of £245.  It seems he told the Morses 
Club agent that his partner paid for the other  outgoings. But even  if his partner did meet 
other household expenses, once Mr B paid the rent, utilities and Loans 2 and 3 he would 
have less than £10 per week left for anything else he needed to pay for. This loan wasnt 
affordable for him even  based on the information  Morses Club itself had.
Around six months later on 18 May 2016 Mr B took Loans 4 and 5 and repaid Loan 2 by 
making a payment of almost £78. Two weeks earlier hed paid his usual £45 monthly 
payment on Loan  2  meaning that in the two weeks before Mr B took Loans 4 and 5 he 
repaid almost £123. Its unclear why Mr B was approved for two separate  loans, over two 
different terms, on the same day, but the total loan amount was £600 and as Loan  3 was still 
live he was going to have to find £59 per week to repay Morses  Club.  
Whilst I note that Mr Bs  declared  weekly income had increased to £350,  over half of this 
was made  up of state benefits (£170 wages plus £180 benefits).  And now it seems  he 
was paying £65 towards housing, £70 for food and transport and £28 for other  outgoings  
whilst his partner paid for the utility bills. 
Ref: DRN26122536When Mr B  took Loans 4 and 5 hed been borrowing from Morses  Club for over a year and 
a half without any periods when  he wasnt indebted to it. Whilst the amounts of the loans had 
fluctuated the overall amounts he was having  to repay each week were increasing. 
Im satisfied that at the point Mr B took Loans 4 and 5 on 18 May 2016 a pattern of 
borrowing from Morses Club had developed. And it should have realised that it was more 
likely than not that Mr B was having to borrow more  and more to cover the hole repaying 
earlier credit  was leaving in his finances  -  and that his indebtedness had increased  
unsustainably. He wasnt making any real inroads into the amount he owed  Morses  Club and 
was going to be indebted to it for another year. 
Morses Club shouldnt  have provided  Loans  4 and 5 and nor should it have advanced  
£1,000 to Mr B on 9 November 2016 (Loan 6)  and £500 on 15 May 2017  (Loan 7). His 
statement of account  clearly shows that the pattern continued.
On the day Mr B took Loan 6 he repaid Loan  3 with a payment of £140 but 5 days  before 
that hed already paid £140  a total £280  within five days.  And he also repaid Loan 4 on the 
same day with a payment  of £62.96 having paid £40 earlier  in November. So to clear  those 
two loans hed repaid  around £383  within  the first ten days  of November 2016.  And hed 
made a payment of £56 on Loan 5  which was still going to be live. In other  words  Mr B 
paid Morses Club about £436  just before  he borrowed  another £1,000  with Loan 6.
This was repeated  at the point Mr B took Loan 7. He took this on the day he repaid Loan 5  
(15 May 2017) with a payment of £112 having  also paid £56 earlier  in May so a total £168 
was repaid to Morses  Club just before Mr B took Loan 7 for £500. And Loan  6 was still live 
and with an outstanding  balance of £1,085.  
I think that Mr B lost out because Morses Club continued to provide loans to him. This had 
the effect of unfairly extending  his indebtedness by allowing  him to take expensive credit 
over a prolonged period   - which most  likely impacted his ability  to access  mainstream credit 
and so kept in the market for these expensive home-collected loans.
I want to reassure Morses  Club that I've thought carefully about  its response to our 
adjudicators assessment.   But, having  done so I remain of the opinion that it was 
irresponsible when  it provided Loans 2 to 7.  I'm not persuaded  by its argument that Mr Bs 
borrowing for two and a half years  didnt indicate a reliance on its loans.  I've explained 
above why I'm satisfied that Mr B was having  to re-borrow  over and over to fill the hole left in 
his finances due to earlier repayments.  This cycle  of borrowing to repay earlier  credit  wasnt 
sustainable and a simple review  of his statements of accounts suggests that this was what  
he was doing.
I've also noted  Morses  Clubs point about  the FCAs consultation paper (CP18/43) and its 
review of the high cost credit market. But as Morses  Club will also have  seen in the paper, 
the FCA referred to some  existing controls  including that firms must  assess creditworthiness  
(including affordability) before agreeing any new loan or any significant increase in credit. 
And later the FCA added that when making  such an assessment firms  have to do so on the 
basis of sufficient information which will be proportionate and relevant to factors such as the 
costs and the risk of the credit  in the individual case.   It also added that firms also  have to 
monitor consumers repayment  patterns  to identify signs  of financial distress and firms  
must also not encourage a customer to refinance where the commitments  are not 
sustainable or are not in the customers  best  interests.  Ive outlined  at length above  the 
Ref: DRN26122537relevant parts of CONC and would particularly  refer Morses Club to sections, 5.2.1(2), 
CONC 5.3.1G(1), 5.3.1G(2), 5.3.1G(6) and 5.3.1G (4).
Having thought about everything in this case,  I'm not persuaded that Morses Club acted 
responsibly when  it provided Loans  2 to 7 to Mr B. So, Im upholding his complaint about 
those loans and Morses Club should put things right as set out below.
putting things right
Morses Club shouldnt  have given Mr B Loans 2 to 7. I understand that there may be a 
balance outstanding on Loans  6 and 7.  If Morses Club has sold the outstanding debts it 
should buy these  back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps.  If Morses  Club 
is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below.
a)Morses Club should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B  towards 
interest, fees and charges on Loans 2, 3, 4 and 5
b)It should calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B 
which were considered as part of a), calculated from the date he originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
c)Morses Club should remove  all interest,  fees and charges from the outstanding 
balance on Loans 6 and 7, and treat any repayments made by Mr B as though they 
had been repayments  of the principal on any outstanding loans.  If this results in Mr B 
having made overpayments then Morses  Club should refund  these  overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Morses Club should then refund the amounts calculated in a) and b) and move to 
step e)
d)If there  is still an outstanding balance after the steps at c) have been completed, then 
the amounts calculated in a) and b) should be used  to repay any balance  remaining 
on the outstanding loans.  
If this results  in a surplus then the surplus  should  be paid to Mr B. However, if there 
is still an outstanding  balance then Morses Club should agree an affordable  
repayment plan with Mr B. 
e)Morses Club should remove  any adverse  information recorded on Mr Bs  credit file in 
relation to Loans 2 and 3. The overall  pattern of Mr Bs  borrowing for Loans 4 to 7 
means any information recorded about them is adverse, so Morses Club  should 
remove these loans  entirely from Mr Bs  credit  file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Morses Club to deduct  tax from this interest.  It should give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much  tax it has deducted,  if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I'm upholding Mr Bs complaint in part and I require Morses 
Club PLC to put things  right in the way I've outlined.
Ref: DRN26122538Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2612253