K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained NewDay Limited, trading  as Aqua, is asking him to pay a debt on a 
credit card he didnt take out.
background
Mr B found  out an Aqua  credit  card had been taken out in his name.  Hed not applied for or 
used this card so tried to complain to Aqua. He had difficulties doing this as he didnt have  
the security details for the account. Aqua also wanted him to provide a crime reference 
number to assist  with the fraud claim. He brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
By the stage Mr B came  to us he was being pursued for money by the company Aqua had 
sold the debt to. Aqua believed Mr B had received  the card and PIN when the credit card 
was opened. As hed not provided them  with a crime reference  number, they were  
continuing to hold him liable for the debt.  
In fact as our investigator discovered Mr B had given Aqua  a crime reference number in 
August 2017.  The address they held for the Mr Bs account wasnt  where Mr B lived either. 
Mr B was extremely  concerned about  the impact  on his credit record  as it wasnt only this 
card that had been taken out fraudulently in his name.
Our investigator shared evidence with Aqua that Mr B had been the victim of ID fraud and 
other credit had been taken out in his name. Aqua  offered  to uphold the complaint, write off 
the debt and remove the data for this card from Mr Bs record.  Our investigator felt this was a 
fair offer.
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with this offer as he felt Aqua  hadnt treated him fairly.  He was 
particularly concerned that Aqua  hadnt  met their obligations under data protection  regulation 
and he blamed them for the state  of his credit record.
Mr Bs complaint has been  referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a slightly 
different conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly I should confirm  there is no doubt  the Aqua credit card account was applied for 
fraudulently. The person  who made  this application  used  an address which Mr B had had a 
past relationship  with. This wasnt the only credit that was attempted to be taken out in 
Mr Bs name.
But I saw from Mr Bs credit record that he had an existing relationship with NewDay  under 
one of their other brands.  This account was registered to the address Mr B lived at when the 
false application was made. So Im surprised Aqua didnt  pick up this issue earlier and deal 
with Mr Bs case  more effectively.
Because of this issue I asked Aqua to pay Mr B an additional £250 in compensation for the 
distress this has caused. Aqua agreed to pay this.
Ref: DRN24104242Mr B didnt agree this was enough  as he remained concerned about the impact on his credit 
record and how his data was used. Ive reviewed  Mr Bs credit  record.  I can see there were 
at least two other defaults for other credit products registered against him. So I cant agree 
that the fraud that happened here ruined his credit  record. Nor have I seen any evidence 
Aqua used his data incorrectly.
I absolutely agree Mr B has been a victim  of fraud  and thats really awful.  Im sure itll have 
had an effect on him. However I dont think thats  the fault of Aqua  alone. I wont be asking 
them to pay any more  than the £250 theyve agreed  to pay Mr B.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  NewDay  Limited, trading as Aqua, 
to:
Take the Aqua credit  card out of Mr Bs name;
Stop pursuing Mr B for this debt;
Remove data related  to this account  from Mr Bs credit  record; and
Pay Mr B £250 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020. 
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2410424