K820x#14complaint
P, a limited  company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has applied  charges to its account  
for a service  it did not want.
background
A charge of £6 per month had been  applied  by HSBC since May 2012. HSBC  said that this 
was related to internet banking and would have allowed P to make international payments 
from its account online. In March 2018  HSBC agreed to refund  all of these charges since  
May 2012.
The investigator did not recommend HSBC do anything more.  She said that a refund was 
fair as P had not used  the service. But there was no evidence that HSBC had made a 
mistake so she could not reasonably ask it to pay compensation or refund any other 
charges.
P did not agree. It said it did not request  this payment service. The director  did not like the 
suggestion that HSBC was doing  P a favour  by refunding the charges.  P still wants a refund 
of standard account charges also made  of £5.50 a month over the period. He did not think  
that weve been impartial.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to start by saying that P has raised a separate complaint with HSBC  about not 
receiving paper statements on the account  over the period and has asked for a refund  of 
standard charges as a result of that too. That is not a complaint that the investigator has not 
looked into as it was not referred to this service at the time. I am looking  here into the £6 
charge for a service that would have allowed P to make international payments through  
internet banking.
P says that as HSBC cannot  show it asked  for this service  then its made an error. HSBC 
says it no longer has a copy  of Ps application.  My understanding is that P does not have  a 
copy either. That makes it difficult for me fairly to resolve what happened. There  is no 
requirement for HSBC  to keep such information indefinitely and here this was an established 
service available  to P whether it was used  or not.
I note from the bank statements Ive seen that this charge was first shown as a separate  
element on 31 May 2012. It continued  in this way until 1 December 2013 when the total 
charges were then shown  as £11.50. That as I understand it was due to the addition  of the 
monthly bank account charge of £5.50  I mentioned above.
P was clearly using  the account over the period. I think its reasonable to think that this 
charge of £6 would  have  been apparent to it. As Ive explained there is really no more 
evidence about  how it originated. I dont  have a fair basis  to find that HSBC  made  a mistake.
P then questioned  this charge. Just because a service had not been used does not mean  
that there  should  be a refund for it. HSBC  has accepted that, however the charge was 
Ref: DRN23126102originated, it was not Ps intention to use the service. So it has refunded those charges 
applied of £414 and waived a further one due of £6.
There is always some  time involved in raising  a complaint and we dont often make  an award 
for this. Here in my view there is already a reasonable offer of compensation. And so I dont 
think that on the basis of the circumstances of this complaint I have a basis to ask HSBC  to 
refund any other charges.  Im not going to be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that HSBC  Bank  UK Plc need 
take no further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to P to accept or reject  
my decision  before 5 March 2019
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2312610