K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that St Andrews Insurance  plc caused delay and provided
poor service when it dealt  with Mr Ms claim under his Home Insurance  policy.
All reference to the insurer St Andrews plc in my decision  includes its agents.
background
In December 2017 Mr and Mrs Ms property was extensively damaged due to water leaking
from a burst  pipe in their loft. Mr M reported  the damage on the same day to St Andrews.
In July 2018 Mr M complained. He said St Andrews contractors had taken longer than
scheduled to complete  the works, the works were of a poor standard to the property and
their furniture. A contractor had lost floor samples  which caused further delay. Mr M said he
had to constantly chase St Andrews for updates.
In July 2018 St Andrews upheld Mr Ms complaint and paid £100 compensation to his bank
account. St Andrews agreed to arrange for remedial works to be done  following a visit to the
property.
Mr M contacted us in October 2018. He was unhappy with how the claim had been handled
overall. He raised  new concerns which St Andrews replied to in December 2018 by paying
Mr M a further £150 compensation. All works were completed in November 2018.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  feel the total award  of £250 was enough  for the distress  and
inconvenience caused over 11 months. 
I issued a provisional decision on 9 April 2020. I thought  a fairer outcome was for St 
Andrews to pay Mr and Mrs M a further £250 compensation, so £500  in total. 
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.  So the case has been passed back to me for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties accepted  my provisional 
decision, my final decision  is along the same lines.
Ive addressed all complaints that St Andrews replied to in July 2018 and December 2018.
Its clear that the damage to Mr and Mrs Ms home was extensive.  So it was always going to
cause considerable disruption and take some time for St Andrews contractors to put right.
Several rooms were affected by the leak of water.
St Andrews  arranged for Mr and Mrs M to stay in Bed and Breakfast (B&B) accommodation
for 13 weeks between January 2018 and May 2018.
Mr and Mrs M explained that they are in their seventies   and while  they were able to be at
home during the day, they only had access to the kitchen and a bathroom. But in order  to
use the bathroom they had to exit the kitchen and go outside, to enter  the property from a
different door. Mr M said this was during winter months.
Ref: DRN22992842The schedule of works was set for completion  on 10 April 2018. But due to the flooring being
inadequate for a carpet to be fitted, the actual completion date was 26 June 2018. Mr M said
this was later than the agreed date of 24 June 2018 and they had to postpone  the carpet
fitting for a second time.
In August  2018  following  a visit to Mr and Mrs Ms home, St Andrews agreed for
considerable remedial work to be carried out, mostly  to walls that hadnt been properly
prepared before being wall papered. During this time it was necessary for Mr and Mrs M to
stay in B&B accommodation for a further  four nights.
These remedial repairs  were carried out and insulation to the loft was completed on 23
November 2018.
I think that the damage caused to Mr and Mrs M was always going to mean that they would
be caused some disruption  over a period of months. We would consider works of this nature
to take several  months to complete.
Its unfortunate that due to the time of year when the repairs  were being done,  it was cold
when Mr and Mrs M needed to move from one area of their home  to another  by having  to go
outside. Ive no doubt this was an unpleasant  inconvenience. But overall  I think if St
Andrews had completed the works to a satisfactory  standard by April 2018,  this would have
been reasonable.
However, I think the ongoing  inconvenience until the end of June  2018,  and the further
disruption between  September and November 2018 was over and above what I would
consider reasonable for this type of claim.  I think St Andrews poor service  and poor
workmanship by its contractors meant a delay of two months from April to June 2018  and
three months from September to November 2018.  So five months in total.
I understand Mr and Mrs M were  on holiday  for part of August and September 2018.  Even
so, I think a fairer award of compensation should be £500 for the distress and inconvenience
caused to Mr and Mrs M. I think they spent  a considerable amount of time over and above
what would  be reasonable dealing with St Andrews and the contractors in order to have
their house  put back in the position it was in before the damage.  And I think  having  to wait 
for remedial  works to be carried  out  after further visits from St Andrews and contractors
between July and August  2018  caused  further  distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require St Andrews Insurance plc to
pay Mr and Mrs M a further £250 in addition to the £250 its already paid for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
St Andrews  plc must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which  we tell it
Mr and Mrs M accepts  my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest  on
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate
of 8% a year.
If St Andrews plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its taken off. It should  also give
Mr and Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN22992843Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 June 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2299284