K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  about  the advice he received from BlackStar  Wealth  Management Ltd 
to switch two personal pensions  to a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP).  The majority of 
the funds were then invested in two specialised and high risk investments.
background
Mr L took advice  in 2014 and then transferred around £50,000 in total to a SIPP.  This was 
his only private pension and he had no other investments at the time although he did have 
an interest in a buy to let property. The existing plans had been  invested in balanced lifestyle  
and dynamic lifestyle  funds.
BlackStar assessed Mr Ls approach to investment risk as medium and he had over 15 
years until his likely retirement at age 60.
Around 90% of Mr Ls transferred pension was invested in Colonial Capital and Dolphin 
Capital. In March  2017 Mr L was informed  that Colonial Capital had been placed in 
receivership and so he had lost his investment. 
Mr L complained to this service and the complaint was investigated. The adjudicator said it 
should be upheld.  It was the adjudicators view that the investments were similar to 
unregulated or non-mainstream  investments  and in any event  they were  high risk  meaning 
they werent suitable for Mr L.
The adjudicator noted Mr L didnt have  any other  investments  and couldnt  reasonably  be 
regarded as an experienced  investor by virtue  of holding buy to let property and having  
started up his own business.
BlackStar didnt agree  saying the investments werent UCIS but were non-readily  realisable 
securities. And it was appropriate, under the relevant  regulations to recommend  them  to Mr 
L whod confirmed  he was an experienced investor.  The investments had been discussed 
with him and hed confirmed  his understanding.
The adjudicator didnt change his view.  He said that the regulator had issued guidance  
regarding non-readily  realisable securities (crowd funding) which noted it involved high risk 
and was only suitable for a certain  criteria of investors. The adjudicator noted that BlackStar  
appeared to have relied on the fact that Mr L had received regulated advice in order  to allow 
it to discuss crowd funding with him. The adjudicators view was the main issue  was that 
BlackStar was required, as Mr Ls professional  advisers, to recommend a suitable 
investment strategy  for his pension  which  it had failed to do.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the evidence  and arguments  in order to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L was in his mid-forties and there was a reasonable time to switch  plans with a view to 
improving investment performance and achieve  potentially greater returns.  However, in 
Ref: DRN21240622doing so he relied on BlackStar as his professional advisers to recommend suitable 
alternatives to the plans  he already  had.
Mr Ls attitude to investment risk had been  assessed as medium. This was largely in line 
with the medium/dynamic  funds he already  held.  These both included  life-styling  features  
which provided for risk reduction in the years up to retirement. 
The investments BlackStar  recommended were loans to two companies with projected  
returns of 12% to 13% per annum. These returns  were  much higher than might have been 
expected from a medium risk approach and were  clearly  higher risk. And Im not satisfied 
that investing 90% of Mr Ls pension in these  two investments which were effectively crowd 
funded was appropriate or suitable  for Mr L in my view. It was a high risk approach.  
Dolphin Capital was an established German company investing  in the refurbishment of listed 
buildings (in Germany) for residential  use. Colonial Capital was a new start-up with no track 
record. It invested in distressed  residential  property (which had been foreclosed) in Chicago  
USA. The investments were specialised and risky. Even successful new companies can take 
many years to return a profit and the risk of total failure and total loss of investment is 
relatively high.
Both investments were overseas and had similar underlying assets. They were therefore 
exposed to similar risks which meant there  was a potential lack of diversity.  Given Mr Ls 
recorded risk approach  and his limited personal  pension provisions, the investments were 
not suitable.
BlackStar has sought to justify its advice based  on Mr Ls agreement to his classification as 
an experienced investor. The evidence provided  does not confirm Mr L was experienced. He 
had no other  investments  or pensions. His business and the buy to let property may have 
formed part of Mr Ls retirement planning but he had a reasonable expectation that 
BlackStars advice was about improving his retirement benefits via improved investment 
performance. He wouldnt  have expected to have  to rely on his other assets as a result  of 
losing a significant part of his pension value as a result of BlackStars  advice. That was the 
risk he was exposed to.
I also note BlackStars argument  that Mr L had set up a number of companies  over the 
years. However, whilst setting up and running a business might appear to demonstrate he 
had an entrepreneurial approach, I dont think that means he understood the complexities 
and significant  risks of investing in speculative overseas  property development companies.  
He was taking  advice from experts and entitled  to rely on that advice. The advice should 
have been suitable for Mr L and BlackStar should  have acted in his best interest  but Im not 
satisfied that was the case here.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr L should be put as closely as possible  into the position he would  probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr L would have invested  differently.  Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr L's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
what should  BlackStar do?
Ref: DRN21240623To compensate Mr L fairly, BlackStar  must:
Compare the performance of Mr L's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
BlackStar should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, BlackStar should  pay into Mr L's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If BlackStar  is unable to pay the total amount into Mr L's pension  plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr L's actual or expected  marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr L would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr L £200 for the inconvenience  and the distress when he was informed he'd 
lost almost half of his pension value.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If BlackStar  deducts  income  tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr L how much  has been taken off. BlackStar should give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement  
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Ref: DRN21240624fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
on-going SIPP fees
The SIPP only exists because of the unregulated investments. In order for the SIPP to be 
closed and further SIPP fees prevented, this investment needs to be removed. But if
BlackStar cant buy it Mr L is faced with future SIPP fees. I think it is fair to assume five 
years of future SIPP fees. So, if BlackStar cant buy the investment, it should pay an amount 
equal to five years of SIPP  fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition to the 
compensation calculated using a nil value  for the investment.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
 Mr L wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
  The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the   
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
 Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr L's circumstances and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that BlackStar  Wealth management Ltd must pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
BlackStar Wealth management Ltd should provide details of its calculation  to Mr L in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2124062