K821x#15complaint
Miss M and Mr M complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) turned down their claim  
under their travel insurance policy. 
My references to IPA include its agents.
background
Miss M and Mr M were  on holiday when  Mr M fell and suffered  a head injury. Miss M 
contacted IPA, their travel  insurer. They had to extend their trip and when they got home 
they made a claim for their additional expenses. 
IPA turned  down the claim.  It said Mr Ms injury had been caused by an altercation,  while he 
was under the influence of alcohol. IPA relied  on two policy exclusions about not taking 
reasonable care and alcohol  use to decline the claim. 
Our casework manager looked into the complaint.  She upheld  it, as she didnt think  IPA had 
done enough to show that it could rely on its policy  exclusions. She said it should  pay the 
claim subject  to the remaining policy terms and limits. IPA didnt  agree  so the complaints 
come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint 
for broadly the same reasons as those  given by our casework manager. 
Theres no dispute that Mr M suffered a head injury when on holiday. Hes done  enough  to 
show that he could  make a claim under the travel insurance policy. For IPA fairly to turn 
down his claim it needs to show, on balance, that it can rely on the policy  exclusions  its 
quoted.
IPA has quoted two policy  exclusions.  IPA says in its policy  that it doesnt expect its policy 
holders to avoid  alcohol. But the policy says, in summary, that IPA wont pay claims where 
the policy holder  has drunk so much alcohol that it impairs or seriously affects their faculties 
or judgement such that they need to make  a claim as a result.  
In support of its position IPA has quoted a medical  report which says that Mr M was drunk 
when he arrived in hospital following the accident.  Ive not seen a translation of that report, 
but IPA says its own staff member translated the medical report.  But IPA hasnt provided a 
medical report to show the amount of alcohol in Mr Ms blood stream  at the time. Importantly 
IPA hasnt shown  that any alcohol Mr M had consumed impaired his faculties or affected  his 
judgement to the extent that he needed  to make a claim. It cant fairly  rely on the alcohol 
exclusion. 
IPA has also relied  on a policy exclusion that requires its policy holder to take reasonable 
precautions to avoid  injury. Referring again  to the medical report  it says that the accident 
was the result of a physical altercation. 
As Ive mentioned  IPA hasnt sent a translation  of the medical report.  But even if I accept the 
report says that there was a physical altercation this doesnt mean IPA has shown that Mr M 
Ref: DRN20686232failed to take reasonable precautions such that he suffered  an injury. The circumstances 
around the incident arent clear. Miss M wasnt with Mr M at the time and Ive not seen 
anything to show that IPA spoke  directly  to Mr M for his recollections of the injury.  He fell and 
hit his head but IPAs not shown that he instigated an altercation or that he fell as a result of 
that. The evidence  simply isnt strong enough  for IPA to have shown, even on balance, that 
Mr M was injured  due to his own failure  to take reasonable precautions  for his safety.
It follows that the fair outcome  to this complaint is for IPA to pay Miss M and Mr Ms claim,  in 
line with the remaining policy  terms, policy limits and any applicable excess (if not already 
paid). For the avoidance of doubt IPA is not entitled to rely on the alcohol or reasonable 
precautions exclusions. It must add 8% simple interest to the claim payment, as set out 
below. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. Within 28 days  of the date we send  it 
Miss M and Mr Ms acceptance  of this final decision I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to 
pay their claim, in line with the remaining policy terms,  policy  limits and any applicable 
excess. It must add interest* to the claim  payment  at the simple rate of 8% per year from the 
date of claim to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If IPA considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Miss M and Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss M and Mr M a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2068623