K821x#15Complaint
Mr J has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) unfairly applied a change  to its 
overdraft pricing structure on his account  which led to him being charged  an increased 
amount, when it ought to have seen his account was in difficulty .
Background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought BOS should have realised that 
Mr Js overdraft had become unsustainable for him in December  2017  and so it needed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Js overdraft from this point. 
BOS didnt respond to our adjudicators  view.  So the complaint  was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
BOS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I also think BOS acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest  and associated fees after it renewed Mr Js overdraft in 
December 2017.  By this point, BOS would have  seen  that Mr J had been hardcore 
borrowing for a number of months.  In other words, Mr Js account remained persistently 
overdrawn for lengthy periods without returning  to credit. 
A look at Mr Js statements  in the months  leading up to the renewal  also show  periodic 
returned direct debits. Equally, I cant see that sufficient funds were being  credited such that 
it could reasonably be concluded Mr J would more  likely than not have been  able to repay 
his overdraft within a reasonable period of time either.  In reaching this conclusion,  Ive taken 
into account that the overdraft was cleared in full in March 2020. But I understand that Mr J 
only managed  to do this by re-mortgaging his property. And BOS will be aware  that repaying 
unsecured credit through realising assets or security isnt considered  sustainable.
Overall, I think that by December 2017, BOS should  have  stopped  providing the overdraft on 
the same  terms and treated Mr J with forbearance rather than adding  even  more  fees and 
charges on the overdraft . All of this means that BOS should have realised Mr J was 
experiencing financial difficulty, wasnt using  his overdraft as intended and shouldnt  have 
continued offering  it on the same terms. As BOS didnt react  to Mr Js overdraft usage  and 
instead continued charging  in the same  way, I think it failed  to act fairly and reasonably 
towards him.
Ive also noted  what Mr J has said about  adverse information recorded regarding  a credit 
card. But Im afraid  that I cant look at this matter at this stage as these concerns didnt form 
part of Mr Js initial complaint to BOS. So Mr J will need to give BOS a chance to address 
these concerns, in the first instance, should  he wish to take this matter further. 
Ref: DRN22340082Fair compensation  what  BOS  needs to do to put things  right for Mr J
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Js complaint for BOS to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Js overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied  
to it from December 2017 to March 2020  are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made BOS  should contact Mr J to arrange  a suitable repayment  plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Js credit 
file, it should backdate  this to December 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr J along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments  from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then BOS 
should remove any adverse information  from Mr Js credit  file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires BOS to take off tax from this interest.  BOS  must give    
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, upholding Mr Js complaint. Bank  of Scotland plc should  put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2234008