K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that she was mis-sold Life and Critical Illness  Cover  (the policy)  by 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (the business).  
She says she was told cover was a condition of her mortgage but she didnt need it because  
she had employee  benefits in place,  including: 12 months sick pay; death in service benefit;  
and an employee  pension. 
background
In my provisional decision of 22 April 2020, a copy of which is attached  and forms part of 
this, my final decision, I said I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. 
In summary,  I wasnt persuaded that the Life and CIC policy  was mis-sold, or that Miss D 
was told it was a condition of her mortgage. I also didnt that her employee  benefits were a 
suitable replacement  for life cover.  
 
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision despite being  given time to do so.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of no new submissions,  my decision remains  as set out in my 
provisional decision and for the same reasons. Im not going to uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN24670172COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Miss D complains  that she was mis-sold  Life and Critical Illness Cover (the policy) by Legal and 
General Assurance Society Limited (the business).  
She says she was told cover  was a condition of her mortgage  but she didnt need it because  she had 
employee benefits  in place, including:  12 months sick pay; death in service benefit;  and an employee 
pension. 
background
In 1996, Miss D was sold the policy alongside her mortgage. In 2011, following a financial review she 
contacted the business to discuss payments made from her account. As a result she cancelled  her 
home insurance, but continued with the policy  because she says she wasnt told it was optional. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and thought  it should be upheld.  In summary, he 
said:
It was recorded in the Personal Financial  Review  (PFR) that Miss D was 23 years of age, 
single with no partner  or dependents, and that she was employed and had an employee 
pension.  
It was also recorded that she had no life cover, death in service  benefit, mortgage protection  
or a regular savings plan.
Due to the passage of time there is no longer  a suitability letter available.   
Theres also no record  of the 2011 telephone call/conversation, therefore  theres no record of 
what (if anything) was said about  the plan or the home insurance.  
Hes seen  nothing to suggest that Miss D was led to believe the policy  was optional until her 
contact with the business  in 2018.   
Had Miss D been  made aware its unlikely she wouldve taken  out the policy  in 1996. 
Alternatively if shed been  told in 2011, its likely she wouldve cancelled the policy  and 
complained then. 
The premiums should therefore be refunded with 8% simple interest. 
The business should also pay £250 compensation for trouble and upset caused.
Because the business hasnt responded the complaint has been referred  to me to consider. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, subject  to any further submissions, provisionally Im not minded to uphold this 
complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded the business  has behaved 
unreasonably, and Im unable to safely say that Miss D was told the policy was a condition  of her 
mortgage.  
 
But before I explain further why this is the case, its important for me to recognise Miss Ds strength of 
feeling about  this matter.
She has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope Miss D wont take the fact my findings  focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
Ref: DRN24670173The purpose  of my decision isnt to address every single  point raised. My role is to consider the 
evidence presented by her and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts  of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant  law, regulation and best 
industry practice but Im not bound by this. But its for me to decide, based on the information  Ive 
been given, whats more  likely than not to have happened.
Although Miss D was in her 20s, single with no dependents at the time I think  the need for mortgage 
protection was correctly  identified. I note that she was applying for a mortgage but had no mortgage 
protection in place, and it was recorded in the PFR that this was her priority,  and that she wasnt 
prepared to consider other needs at the time. 
The policy was designed  to pay out on death or diagnosis  of a specified critical illness within the term 
of the policy. This meant  that if Miss D died or was diagnosed with a specified  critical illness within  the 
term of the policy, the outstanding mortgage balance  would be paid off, leaving  Miss D (or her estate)  
with a mortgage  free house. In the circumstances Im unable to say that this was a bad thing.
Its possible that Miss D didnt know that the policy was optional,  and that probably explains  why she 
didnt complain earlier.  I doubt that in 2011 the business phone operative  wouldve discussed  with her 
the sale of the policy in 1996. 
Im aware that following discussions Miss D cancelled  her home insurance, but despite what she 
says, Im unable  to safely say that the business  told her that the policy  was a condition of her 
mortgage.
It may be that she was strongly advised to take out mortgage protection, but despite what Miss D 
says, Ive seen no evidence that persuades  me that she was told that the policy was a condition of her 
mortgage or that cover  had to be purchased  through the business. I note the mortgage was with a 
third party building society and the business wasnt responsible for setting  any conditions of its 
lending. Ive also seen  no evidence to suggest  that Miss D couldnt  have sought independent financial 
advice from elsewhere if thats what she wanted to do.   
I appreciate what Miss D says about employee  benefits,  its not entirely clear  why this wasnt included 
in the PFR,  but in any case employee  benefits  arent  generally regarded  as an adequate  replacement  
for life cover  or CIC because these benefits arent guaranteed. I note Miss D had death in service  
benefit, but theres  no way of knowing  if it even covered her mortgage. And the sickness cover that 
she had was a different  type of insurance to the critical illness cover. 
This sort of approach is common within industry  practice, and not limited to the business. It would  
have been the case that employee benefits would  have only been available for the duration that Miss 
D remained in that particular employment, whereas the policy would continue to run, as long as the 
premiums were paid for the term of the mortgage. In 1996, a few months before taking out the 
mortgage, there was no way of knowing without the power of hindsight that shed still be employed or 
that her employer wouldnt at some point have  chosen  to withdraw the benefits.
I appreciate Miss D will be unhappy Ive reached a different conclusion to the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what she wants to hear. But on the face of the available 
evidence, Im unable to uphold  this complaint  and give her what  she wants.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any further Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2467017