K820x#11complaint
Ms H and Mr S complain  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold  them  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.  
background
In 1997 Ms H and Mr S took out a mortgage with Nationwide in a meeting at one of its 
branches. They bought  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  alongside the mortgage.
The PPI cover was split between Ms H and Mr S providing a 50% benefit in the event  Ms H 
couldnt work through accident or sickness or lost her job or 50% if Mr S couldnt work 
through accident or sickness or lost his job. The policy provided 100% benefit  if both couldnt  
work. 
The policy cost £34 a month and the 100% benefit  provided a £300 monthly payment which 
went to the mortgage account directly and a £300 monthly payment which  was paid to Ms H 
and Mr S that they could spend  as they saw fit. This arrangement meant  that they could 
cover the mortgage  payments fully if either of them couldnt work. And it provided an income 
above and beyond the mortgage payment if neither of them could work.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
As far as Im aware, Ms H and Mr Ss mortgage and the PPI policy are still in place, although 
they have taken some extra advances against the mortgage over the years.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms H and Mr Ss complaint. The adjudicator said the evidence  
showed that Ms H and Mr S chose to take out the PPI and there was nothing  to indicate 
theyd lost out as a result.
Ms H and Mr S disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide.
For clarity Ms H and Mr S have raised  a complaint against the PPI insurer  about a claim they 
made. That is not the subject of this decision and Im not commenting on it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Nationwide says that this was a non advised sale, by which  it means that it didnt 
recommend the PPI to Ms H and Mr S or advise them to take it out. I dont know  what  was 
said in the meeting, but Ive not seen anything to show me clearly that it did make  a personal 
recommendation to them.  And based on this services knowledge of Nationwides sales  
practices at the time, I think its more likely than not that the sale was non-advised. This 
means Nationwide did not have to ensure that the policy was suitable for Ms H and Mr S, but 
they did have  to provide Ms H and Mr S with good  enough  information about the policy  so 
they could make an informed decision themselves about whether to have it.
Ref: DRN21838392did Nationwide make  it clear to Ms H and Mr S  that  they had a choice about PPI?
Nationwide has provided a copy of Ms H and Mr Ss application form for the mortgage. It 
shows a question on the form asking them if they wish to take the PPI and gives the 
opportunity to tick yes or no. There is a tick in the yes box indicating  they were choosing 
to take it out, and they have both signed  the application form. They also signed a separate  
application form specifically for the PPI.
So I think its more likely  than not that Ms H and Mr S chose to take out the PPI based  on the 
information Nationwide provided to them.
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Ms H and Mr S properly 
informed?
if not  have Ms H and Mr S lost out?
I dont have enough evidence to know what information Nationwide gave Ms H and Mr S 
about the PPI before  they decided to have it. For example whether the policys costs  and 
benefits were made clear  to them and if they were told about the significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover.  I find it unlikely Ms H and Mr S took the cover out without knowing 
anything about  it, but I dont  know if they received everything they needed  to know to allow  
them to make an informed  decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done.  I accept Ms H 
and Mr S may not have been treated fairly and reasonably.
But I dont think Ms H and Mr S have lost out as a result. I say this because  I find it unlikely 
that Ms H and Mr S would have acted differently and not gone ahead with the cover  if 
Nationwide had done more. My reasons are as follows:
Ms H and Mr S were  eligible for the cover  and all its benefits.
Ms H and Mr S were  in good  health  and had both been  in employment for more  than 
two years at the time, so it doesnt  appear they would have been  affected by any of 
the key exclusions  / limitations of their cover such as existing medical  conditions  or 
particular employment circumstances. I note that Mr S may have been self employed, 
but even if he was, self-employed workers were covered  by the policy  with no 
onerous conditions  attached to claiming,  compared  to employees. 
I find it unlikely Ms H and Mr S would have  agreed to something  without having  some 
understanding of the cost. And although  theyve said they wanted to keep their 
monthly outlay to a minimum,  I think its unlikely  they would have declined  it solely  on 
the basis of its cost had it been made  clearer to them because  at approximately  £34 
per month between them, it appears to have been affordable. And as they were 
paying for the PPI monthly, they could cancel it without further  cost if at any stage  
their situation changed  or they no longer wanted it.
Ms H and Mr S have argued  that they didnt need the PPI. But it was for them to decide,  
based on the information they were given, whether  they wanted it or not. I think  the PPI 
would have been useful to them as it paid out in addition  to any sick pay they might have 
received and probably for longer. It also covered them if they lost their jobs, meant  they 
might not have to use any savings  they mightve  had and provided  some protection  against  
losing their home. So they had reason to choose to take the PPI, and I dont think  there was 
anything that Nationwide  failed to tell them  that would have caused  them  not to decide to 
purchase it.
Ref: DRN21838393So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and 
Ms H and Mr S may not have been  treated fairly  and reasonably  by Nationwide in its 
dealings with them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because,  on balance, for the reasons 
Ive detailed above, I think Ms H and Mr S would have been in the same  position if 
Nationwide had done more and properly informed  them - I think  they would have still taken 
out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Ms H and Mr S have not lost out as a result  of 
taking out PPI with their mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2183839