K820x#14Complaint
Mr W says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
Background
In 2006, Santander sold Mr W a monthly premium PPI policy  to help protect  his mortgage 
repayments if he was unable to work because of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr W disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr W says Santander sold him the PPI over the phone. Unfortunately,  Santander doesnt  
hold a recording of the call or any scripts the adviser may have followed during the sale. So, 
I cant say for certain what was discussed at the time. 
I note what Mr Ws said about not knowing the PPI had been added. But, from experience  of 
how Santander sold PPI over the phone at the time,  I think it likely  Mr W would have 
completed a separate direct debit form before  the PPI started. Ive also seen a copy of a 
letter Santander sent him in 2006 regarding the PPI, which refers to him having a choice 
about taking it. 
Overall, I think its likely Mr W would have known about the PPI and that it was optional.  Ive 
seen nothing to show he didnt agree to take it. I can understand if he doesnt recall this now, 
so many years later.
I think Santander recommended the PPI to Mr W. That meant Santander needed  to take 
steps to ensure its advice was right for him. Regardless of what  steps it took, I think  the PPI 
it recommended was right for him in any case.  
For example, from what Mr Ws told us about his circumstances,  he was eligible for the 
cover and wasnt significantly affected by any of the main things the policy  excluded  or 
limited cover  for either. And Ive no reason to think Mr W would have found the monthly 
premium unaffordable.  
It could be that Mr W was entitled to enhanced sick pay from his employer for a time and had 
a good amount of savings as he says.  But the PPI benefits were considerable and would 
have paid out (on top of his other means) for up to 12 months per claim. The policy  covered 
him for unemployment  too. Considering Mr W had entered into a long-term financial 
commitment that was secured against his home,  I think hed have valued the extra protection 
the PPI provided.  
Ref: DRN27037472Santander also needed to give Mr W enough information about  the PPI to allow him to 
decide for himself  if it was right for him. I think its possible that the information Santander 
gave him could have  been better  than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think the 
PPI was unsuitable for him, I dont think better information would have affected his decision 
to take it. I think hed still have thought it gave him a useful benefit  at an affordable cost.
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr Ws lost out because of how Santander 
sold him the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2703747