K822xcomplaint
Miss F complains about the way Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has 
handled claims she made under her pet insurance  policy with it and about its customer 
service.
Miss F has dealt with a different company, which was acting as Red Sands agent. As Red 
Sands is responsible for the claims handling  and claims  decisions Ill refer only to Red Sands 
and this includes its agent.   
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I intended to uphold this complaint in part and I include an extract from 
my decision  here:
Miss F had insured her cats under a lifetime policy with Red Sands. In 2017 and 2018 one 
of her cats had an illness affecting his mouth  and gums, which  needed treatment including 
the extraction  of his otherwise healthy teeth. Sadly he passed away  in August 2018.
Miss F made  claims for the cost of her cats veterinary  treatment  and medication.  Red Sands 
initially declined the claim made in early  2018.  It said the treatment  wasnt  covered under a 
policy exclusion for dental and gum treatment. Miss F accepted  the exclusion applied  for the 
teeth extraction. But she asked Red Sands to pay her claim for medication given the cats 
condition affected  his tongue and the back of his mouth as well. She pointed  out it had paid 
an earlier claim for medication before the teeth were extracted.  Red Sands asked for her vet 
to resubmit the claim splitting out the costs for medication, which  they did.
Red Sands  later paid part of Miss Fs claims for medication. It said parts of the claims 
werent covered  because  shed submitted them more than 90 days  after treatment,  in breach 
of a policy condition  for submission of claims.  Miss F didnt agree this was her fault pointing 
to failures in Red Sands customer service. She also complained about its call handling, 
delay and the way it had spoken to her. Red Sands paid Miss F £85.29. This included the 
cost of her calls and interest on her credit card account together with one months premium 
by way of compensation (the latter being  rounded up to £50). Miss F experienced further 
problems with her final claim. She didnt think shed been treated fairly and came to us. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt dispute the poor service but thought  
Red Sands compensation payment was fair. Miss F didnt agree and said that without 
listening to the calls we couldnt have assessed her complaint fairly. 
Following an initial review  I asked our investigator  to obtain the calls from Red Sands. Ive 
also asked Red Sands for more information about the 90 day claim submission requirement. 
Ill refer to the additional information Ive received below.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Im likely to uphold this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN21471002the 90 day from treatment  condition
Miss F doesnt dispute that some  of her cats treatment isnt covered because any dental or 
gum treatment is excluded under the policys terms unless required as a direct result of an 
accident or injury.  But she complains  about the deductions Red Sands made from the 
eligible parts  of her claim and about  its claim handling and customer service.  
The policy says that Red Sands wont pay a claim which is not notified  within  90 days of 
treatment. On this basis Red Sands made  deductions from the claim payments for any 
treatment outside  this timescale. It has also sent us various letters in which  it said it had 
warned Miss F of this 90 day window on a number of occasions.  
Miss F has pointed out that some of the delay was Red Sands handling of the claims, which 
was confusing. She was concerned about the way Red Sands said it had given her 
warnings, during one telephone call in particular.  
I dont think there was any unreasonable delay on Miss Fs part in telling Red Sands about 
her claims and submitting  the claim forms. But in any event I can step outside  the strict 
policy terms where I think its fair and reasonable to do so. We have a longstanding  
approach that an insurer  shouldnt  turn down  a claim because of a breach of a policy  
condition unless it can show  its been  put in a worse position (or prejudiced) because  of that 
breach. This is also set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance  Conduct  of 
Business rules. 
Ive asked Red Sands why it considers  it is in a worse position  where  any claim for treatment 
was submitted outside the 90 days.  It says that it takes into account any claims when 
assessing the new annual policy premium, so its in a worse position  if its not aware of any 
treatment within the previous  policy  year. 
Im not persuaded by that argument for two reasons. First, most of the treatment took place 
in the October  2017-2018 policy year and so wouldnt have affected that years premium.  If 
Miss F had made a claim a earlier, say in December 2017, then the claim for the September  
2017 treatment  couldnt have been  taken into account for the 2017-18 policy  years  
premium. Also, Red Sands itself told Miss F during one of their telephone conversations  that 
she had made a claim in September  2017.
Second, Red Sands hasnt been able to demonstrate to us that any treatment in the 2016-17 
policy year would actually  have affected the premium for the 2017-18  policy year.  In other 
words, it hasnt shown that its position was made worse  or prejudiced  because  of any delay 
in the January 2018 claims submission. 
It follows that I dont think its fair for Red Sands to make any outside 90 days deductions 
for the eligible parts of Miss Fs claims submitted in 2018. So I intend to require Red Sands 
to pay Miss F the amounts it deducted as being  claimed outside  90 days. This might result  in 
an adjustment of the 35% co-payment, which is Miss Fs share of the treatment costs. This 
is because the 35% is deducted from the eligible part of the treatment costs, which will now 
be higher than they were when it paid the claims.  
Im requiring  Red Sands to put Miss F back in the position she should have been in had the 
90 day deduction not been made, so its fair that it can also make the relevant adjustment  to 
the co-payment. It must add simple interest at 8% to the resulting payments, as set out 
below. 
Ref: DRN21471003the claims handling
I turn now to the claim handling and Miss Fs concerns both about  the confusion  in the 
communications she received and the way she was treated. Ive listened  to Miss Fs 
telephone calls with Red Sands when  she explained  her complaint several times to several 
different people.
Red Sands  staff couldnt always  able to explain the letters  Miss F had received about her 
claims, or give her a complete picture  about  her claims history.  When Miss F asked about  
medication costs Red Sands initially said it could pay them,  but then it didnt take the 
information it had given her into account when it rejected the claim. It didnt always explain 
when she could expect  a call back.  
Red Sands  arranged for a senior  person to review its service in July 2018. The senior 
person accepted that Red Sands service had been  poor and compensated Miss F for the 
cost of her calls and credit  card interest  and she also refunded a months premium for both 
her cats, rounded up to £50, making a total of £85.29. She also arranged to send her a gift 
for Miss Fs cats.
At that point Miss F was reasonably happy  with Red Sands gesture and was clearly glad 
that someone had properly  looked into her concerns. But after the call in which the offer was 
made Miss F experienced further problems. 
She was concerned about one call in particular when she was again told about the 90 day 
claim condition  and that shed had sufficient  warnings  about this. Ive listened to that call 
and I agree with Miss F that the staff members  tone wasnt helpful.  Miss Fs point was that it 
was way Red Sands had dealt with the claim that had caused delay, including  not sending  
out claim forms when requested.
It was particularly distressing for Miss F when she chased the final claim after her cat had 
sadly passed away to be told the claim form hadnt  been received. Shed chased this with 
her vet to ask that the claim be sent in again.  She then received text messages to say the 
claim had been  received  but was told during another telephone  call that it hadnt  been 
received. She asked  the senior person shed spoken  to previously to call her back, but that 
didnt happen.  This was at a time when Red Sands was aware that Miss F had lost one cat 
and her other cat had also been seriously  ill. 
I think Red Sands service to Miss F was poor. I think it should pay her some additional 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  and I assess £100 to be fair and reasonable. 
I accept that the £50 it paid earlier was also compensation for distress and inconvenience, 
so this means total compensation of £150 for compensation. Given  the overall handling of 
the claims I think this is a fair amount. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Red Sands  responded to say that it didnt agree with my provisional decision.  It restated 
some of its earlier points, including: the claims  not being notified  within 90 days  of the 
treatment date; that it had warned  Miss F of this 90 days exclusion; and that it had been  
disadvantaged by the late submission  because it hadnt been able to take the 2017 
treatment into account when deciding the 2017-18  policy renewal premium. Red Sands said 
the amount it had paid to Miss F following its initial investigation was reasonable 
Ref: DRN21471004compensation. It said that a distress and inconvenience award of £150 was unreasonable 
and didnt reflect the circumstances of this case.  
Miss F responded to say that Red Sands Miss G had agreed  to take into account the cost of 
online medication. Miss F rang Miss G several times  but didnt receive a return call. Miss F 
cant now obtain the used prescriptions but have sent the invoices for her cats medication. 
Each prescription cost her between £14 and £17 from the vet, with the cost of medication  on 
top. She did this to save money even though she was insured. 
Miss F sent us the invoices, which weve passed  on to Red Sands. Miss F made  it clear  that 
she wasnt claiming for the flea and worm treatment medication that is also on the 
prescription. She said the online company could be contacted  directly  and provided their 
telephone number. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Red Sands  has re-stated points that Id already considered when making  my provisional 
decision. So its comments dont  change my mind about a fair and reasonable outcome  to 
this complaint for the reasons given in my provisional decision and here.  
I dont consider it is fair for Red Sands to apply  the 90 days  claim limit in circumstances 
where it hasnt shown it was prejudiced by any late submission of the claim. Red Sands says 
that the 2017 treatment would have affected  the premium for the 2017-2018 policy  year but 
hasnt provided  any evidence to support that. It hasnt shown any prejudice.
I still consider the £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience  to be fair, for the 
reasons Ive already set out in my provisional decision. Miss F had ongoing distress and 
inconvenience due to additional  poor service after Red Sands  paid its initial compensation 
payment. So its fair for Red Sands to pay an additional £100 compensation.
Miss F asked me to consider the cost of the online prescription medication.  As she says this 
was discussed  with Red Sands during its calls with Miss F, but it didnt  return  her calls about  
what to do about  obtaining copies of the prescriptions. It seems clear to me that Miss F had 
to have those  prescriptions to order online medication. She was keeping  her costs  to a 
minimum and acting  as if uninsured. Shes  explained why she cant  now send copies of the 
prescriptions. In any event her vet would be able to confirm they issued the prescriptions.
Ive explained  both to Miss F and to Red Sands that I think its fair for Red Sands also to pay 
the claim for the online  prescription  medication that Miss F obtained to treat the cats claimed 
for condition,  in line with its remaining policy terms including any applicable co-payment 
deduction but without reference  to the 90 days claim limit. Miss F did notify  Red Sands that 
shed obtained  this medication  within 90 days of the treatment, in any event. Weve sent 
evidence of the costs to Red Sands. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint in part. 
Ref: DRN21471005I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Miss F the amounts it 
deducted from the eligible parts of her 2018 claims because the treatment was outside  
90 days, less any deduction for the 35% co-payment adjustment.  Red Sands must also pay 
Miss Fs claim for the online prescription medication that she obtained to treat the cats 
claimed for medical condition, in line with the remaining policy terms (including any 
co-payment adjustment) but without  reference  to the 90 days  time limit for claims. Red 
Sands must add simple interest* at 8% per year to the resulting payment from the date it 
paid the 2018 claims  and from the date she paid for the medication until the date it pays  
Miss F.
I also require Red Sands to pay Miss F additional  compensation of £100 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Red Sands  must pay the total compensation  within  28 days of the date on which  we tell it 
Miss F accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Red Sands considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Miss F how much its taken off. It should also give Miss F a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2147100