K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK plc cancelled his account  card before consulting him and 
gave him incorrect information about being  able to carry out online transactions. He also 
complains about  how his Subject Access Request (SAR) was dealt with.
background 
Mr C says Santander cancelled his account card on 23 December 2018 due to supposed  
fraud before consulting  him about  it. He says he was told by Santander that he would still be 
able to carry out online transactions, which was incorrect. Mr C says he was preparing to 
travel abroad after Christmas  and this caused him inconvenience, anxiety and to be without 
access to his money. He also says the problem was caused by the inadequacy of 
Santanders security systems.  Mr C says he made a SAR to Santander  but this was delayed.
Santander initially said it hadnt made  a mistake. It says it blocked the account and needed 
to reissue the account card as a result of the attempted fraud. It also says it didnt  cancel the 
account card until it had spoken  to Mr C who confirmed the attempted transaction wasnt 
made by him. Santander now accepts it gave Mr C incorrect information  about being able to 
use his account  for online  transactions and accepts it didnt  action the SAR when it should  
have. Its increased its offer of compensation from £50 to £200 but says Mr C was able to 
withdraw money from his account on 27 December 2018.
Mr C had already brought his complaint to this service  and our investigator thought overall  
the compensation offer didnt go far enough.  The investigator recommended  that Santander 
increase that offer to £250. The investigator thought the account card was cancelled  after 
Santander spoke  to Mr C about the potentially fraudulent transaction  and not before. The 
investigator also thought it was obliged to order a new account card in those circumstances. 
The investigator accepted that Mr C had been given incorrect information  and that the SAR 
process didnt start as it should.
Santander has agreed to increase its offer of compensation to £250.
Mr C doesnt accept  the investigators  view and says he has been lied to by Santander.  He 
says Santander  called  him and had blocked  his card before that call and the call recording 
proves he has been lied to. Mr C also says any fraudulent  activity  would have been covered 
by Santanders  insurance in any event.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr C will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  he feels about whats  happened.
Ive listened to the call Santander  made  to Mr C on 23 December 2018.  And Im satisfied 
Mr C confirmed the transaction  that Santander called him about  wasnt  made by him. I think 
at that stage Santander had blocked the transaction pending it speaking to Mr C. And that is 
what I would  have  expected it to do in those circumstances. I appreciate Mr C says 
Santander has insurance for this type of situation.  But Im satisfied that Santander acted 
appropriately by taking the steps  it did to protect Mr Cs money  and account  and its own 
Ref: DRN29017442position and I dont think it reasonable for Santander  just to rely of any insurance  policy it 
may have.
Im satisfied that when  Mr C confirmed he hadnt  attempted the transaction,  Santander had 
no alternative but to reissue Mr Cs account  card. I appreciate that this was two days  before 
Christmas and that Mr C was travelling  abroad soon after.  But I dont think  Santander acted 
unfairly or made a mistake and I can see that Mr C was able to access his money on 27 
December 2018.
There is no question here that Santander  did give Mr C incorrect  information about being  
able to carry out online transactions and misleading  information in one of its letters  to Mr C. I 
have no doubt  that Mr C was caused  inconvenience and distress when he realised  he could 
not carry out online transactions. But Ive not seen any evidence that leads me to conclude 
that this was anything other than a mistake  by Santander. I also accept that Santander didnt 
action Mr Cs SAR as it should have and I have  no doubt Mr C was caused further 
inconvenience and distress.
I can see that Santander has agreed  to increase its compensation  offer to £250. Im satisfied 
that offer fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience Mr C was caused. I accept 
that Mr C may not wish to accept that offer and so I will leave it to him to decide. I also make 
it clear to Mr C that I think this brings  an end to what we, in trying to sort out this dispute 
informally, can do. I can see that Mr C has indicated that he is considering alternative action 
against Santander.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of £250 
compensation. Mr Cs acceptance  of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2901744