K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Ms M have  complained about  CIS General Insurance  Limiteds (CIS) handling of 
their car insurance policy.
Reference to CIS includes their agents.
background
Ms M took out car insurance online with CIS on 1 March 2017.  She said she took out the 
policy on behalf of her father Mr M. She said she answered the question are you the 
registered keeper  of the vehicle? as yes having forgotten  she was completing  the 
application on behalf of her father.  She accepts she was the registered  keeper of the car and 
that she simply made a mistake.
Following an accident in December 2017 involving  Ms M, CIS discovered that Mr M wasnt 
the registered keeper. CIS voided  the policy, that means that its treated as though it never 
came into existence. Mr M and Ms M complained saying  it wasnt fair that the policy  was 
voided because  of a mistake, and that it was voided without giving them a chance to 
respond to the decision  to void before  it was implemented.
CIS didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M and Ms M didn't think  that was fair so they brought  their 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  looked into the complaint. She felt that CISs decision 
was reasonable.  As Mr M and Ms M didnt agree with our adjudicators, the complaint  has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr M and Ms M, but Im not going  to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
In their complaint,  Mr M and Ms M have made  a number  of detailed points and Ive 
considered all those  carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus  on what  I consider  to be the 
key issues. My role is to decide  if CIS have  dealt with Mr M and Ms M in a fair and 
reasonable way.
CIS have  suggested  that what Mr M and Ms M did amounted to, what is known in the 
insurance industry, a careless misrepresentation. And theres  specific  legislation  - the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what 
insurers may do in such a situation.  It says that insurers  may void the policy  and refuse all 
claims if they wouldnt have provided cover  had the correct information been  given by the 
policyholder when applying for the policy. Where  that happens the insurer  must  return the 
premium. In Mr M and Ms Ms case,  CIS have shown me information (their underwriting  
guidelines) that confirms  they wouldnt have insured Mr M had they known  he wasnt the 
registered keeper  of the car. 
Im satisfied that the online  question asked as to who the registered  keeper was, was clear. 
Ms M has accepted that she gave the wrong  answer. CIS also sent Mr M a welcome pack  
with the policy documents. The documents said that Mr M should check the details and 
correct any mistakes. They warned that if incorrect information was provided, CIS could 
Ref: DRN28022372cancel or void the policy. The documents recorded that Mr M was the registered  keeper of 
the car, but that wasnt corrected.
CISs decision to void the policy was in accordance with CIDRA and therefore reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2802237