K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with FCE Bank Plc 
(Ford Credit) has not been of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr T took receipt  of a new car in September 2015.  He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Ford Credit.  But hes had problems  with the car since he first took 
receipt of it. 
He raised issues with the radio sync system after only three weeks. This took some  
considerable time for Ford Credit to fix but they say there have been no reports of any 
problems since April 2017. He also told Ford Credit that he had problems with the tyres, 
which he said suffered  from an inherent  fault, and the bonnet  catch but Ford Credit  said that 
he didnt complain about any of these items until hed had the car for eleven months. They  
said they were only responsible for the quality of the car when it was supplied  and they 
suggested that as these  faults hadnt been reported  for some  time it would not be fair to 
suggest they were  present or developing at the point of supply.
So Mr T referred his complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided an opinion. He 
noted that the car had been back to the garage on several occasions and that the repair  to 
the radio sync obviously hadnt been  successful. But he thought it was clear  Mr T had 
accepted the repairs  as a resolution of the matter and that it was now evident the car had 
been fixed. So he didnt think Ford Credit  needed to take any action  in that regard.
He went on to consider  the tyre problems  Mr T complained of and the bonnet  release issue.  
He noted that the job cards from the garage suggested the car wasnt  referred for either 
complaint until 24,000  or more had been completed and until at least 11 months had 
expired. He therefore didnt think there  was evidence  that these faults had been developing 
at the point of supply  and overall, he didnt think  it would be fair to ask Ford Credit  to take 
any further action.
He also understood  that Mr T had raised  several  additional complaints that concerned the 
unsatisfactory service  hed received  from the dealership. But the adjudicator explained that 
these concerns would  need to be addressed with the dealership  first and if Mr T continued to 
be dissatisfied he could  raise them with the Motor Ombudsman.
But Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators  view.  He said the adjudicator hadnt properly 
considered the evidence  hed provided and he said that the model of car he had, had a 
known manufacturing  defect with the tyres.  He said it wasnt  fair to suggest he should be 
without an expensive car that had been garaged for two months. He therefore asked for a 
final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr T so please let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN29837072Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr T acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Ford Credit, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr T. This was a 
brand new car and I would not expect  it to be faulty.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Ford Credit to put this right.  
But Ford Credits responsibility for the car is not unlimited.  Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
The relevant  legislation  would encourage us to assume that if a car developed a fault in the 
first six months it was likely to have been  there from the point of supply. The relevant 
legislation says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
But if the fault happened after that wed usually look to the consumer to prove this was the 
case.
Here Im not persuaded  that theres  evidence  the bonnet release or the tyres were  faulty  or 
developing a fault when the car was first given to Mr T. I say that because I think  he would 
have been unlikely to be able to drive so far if the faults were present from the beginning. I 
understand that Mr T suggests  the tyres  were  deflating because of a manufacturing defect 
but I dont think  hes provided sufficient evidence  to suggest his car was experiencing these 
problems. I think its highly likely the tyres  would have deflated sooner if that were the case  
and I dont think Mr T would have been keen  to buy the car at the end of the deal if there 
was a significant problem. I think its most likely  he would have handed it back.
I can see there were problems with the cars  radio sync and these clearly werent fixed  
promptly. But Mr T did accept repairs and it seems  the radio sync is now working. So I dont 
think it would  be fair to ask Ford Credit to take any further action. I note they have made a 
Ref: DRN29837073payment to Mr T of £75 in respect of the inconvenience caused by his visits to the garage 
and I think, in the circumstances,  thats  reasonable.
For clarity I would repeat  the adjudicators advice regarding Mr Ts service  complaints. They  
will need  to be addressed to the dealership in the first place as they are unrelated to the 
finance agreement  or the dealerships negotiation  of this agreement  on Ford credits  behalf.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2983707