K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Inchcape Retail Limited  (Inchcape) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 7 May 2019.  A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision set out the background to this complaint. It explained why I didnt 
think that Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld.
Both Mr B and Inchcape responded to my provisional decision saying they didnt have any 
further information or comments  to make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr B nor Inchcape have provided me with any further comments or information 
following my provisional decision,  I see no reason to change the conclusion I reached  in it. 
So I still dont think the complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  this complaint 
against Inchcape Retail Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22293622copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains that Inchcape Retail  Limited (Inchcape)  mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2009, Mr B bought a regular premium PPI policy  when  he took out a loan to buy a car. The policy  
cost £26.04  a month. On a successful claim, it would cover his monthly repayments  on the loan of 
£351.53 for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. Inchcape  disagreed, so the case  has been 
passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in this provisional  decision.
Mr B says he was told by the salesman he spoke to when the sale took place that he wouldnt get his 
loan if he didnt take PPI. Ive no doubt  that this is Mr Bs honest recollection of what  was said to him. 
But I have to bear in mind  that this sale took place quite some time ago. And memories  of what was 
said at such meetings do tend to fade with time. So in these circumstances,  I need to look at all the 
available information  to decide what is most  likely  to have  happened then.
Unfortunately, neither Inchcape nor Mr B appears to still have copies of the paperwork completed at 
the time of the sale.  But Inchcape  has provided  a sample  of the Demands and Needs  form which  it 
says was used for all PPI sales of this type at around this time. And Ive no real reason to think  that 
this form wasnt used  in this case. The form provides a recommendation to the customer about the 
type of PPI which would be most suitable  for them,  together  with the monthly  cost of alternative types 
of cover that the customer could choose. Before signing the form,  the customer  is then required to tick 
a box to show  whether they agree to the recommendation  made; wish to take one of the alternative 
types of cover, or to decline  PPI cover entirely.
I think  the way this form is set out does indicate that the PPI was presented as being  optional. And 
whilst I dont  know  which  type of cover was recommended to Mr B, I can see that the policy  he took 
out only covered him for accident and sickness, not for unemployment. Mr B says he was self-
employed at the time. And, given  the type of work  he did, I dont think  its likely that he would have  
been able to make a successful claim for unemployment  under the policy. So it seems to me most  
likely that the type of cover he needed was discussed  with the sales  person at the time and this 
resulted in an accident and sickness  policy  being selected. This also makes me think  that its more 
likely than not that Mr B was aware  that PPI was optional when he took it.
Ref: DRN22293623Inchcape has also provided a copy of the welcome letter which was sent to Mr B shortly after the 
sale. This letter confirms  details of the policy  Mr B had bought,  including the level of cover selected,  
the monthly benefit and the monthly cost. In a reasonably  prominent  paragraph headed Important 
Information: Your Right to Cancel, it is made clear that Mr B was free to cancel his policy without 
charge within thirty  days  of the letter.  So, again, I think that this letter should have made it reasonably 
clear to Mr B that he didnt have to have  the PPI to get his loan. And I think  he would  have been likely  
to have taken steps to cancel  the policy  if he hadnt wanted the cover and only took it because  he 
thought he needed it to get his loan.
So whilst its possible that Mr B was misled into believing he had to take the PPI, on balance, I think  
its more likely  that he actively decided to take it knowing  he had a choice. But I can understand why 
he may not be able to recall this now.
As Inchcape  recommended the PPI to Mr B it needed to ensure  that it was suitable  for him. With no 
records from the sale now available, I dont know how it did this. But from what  I know of Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why the policy  wouldnt have  been suitable. I say 
this because:
Mr B appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations.
Mr B says he had some savings  that he could have used to make his loan repayments if he 
wasnt able to work. But this policy  would have paid out in addition  to any other means  Mr B had 
and, potentially,  for longer than these would have lasted.  So I still think he would have valued  the 
extra protection the policy gave him.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr B. And as the premiums were paid 
monthly, he could have  cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
Inchcape also needed to give Mr B enough information for him to decide  if he wanted the policy. The 
cost of the policy is shown on the Demands and Needs  form which I think Mr B would have signed. 
And Inchcape  has provided a copy of the Key Facts document which  it says would  have been given 
to Mr B at the same time.  Even  so, I think its possible that the information given  to Mr B could have 
been better than it was. But for much the same  reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable for 
him, I dont think better  information would have changed his mind  about  taking it. I think hed still have 
thought the policy gave him useful cover at an affordable  price.
It follows that Im minded not to uphold this complaint or make any award against Inchcape.
my provisional  decision
I realise this may come  as a disappointment for Mr B, but for the reasons  set out above,  and subject 
to further  information or comments I receive by 7 June 2019,  my provisional decision is not to uphold 
this complaint.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2229362