K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains about Santander UK Plc (Santander) in respect  of a loan she took on to 
replace and consolidate other debt. She feels that this loan was mis-sold to her and that she 
was pressured  into taking on a loan at a higher interest rate. 
background
Mrs C previously had a loan with Santander. This was for £7500 in late 2016. The loan had 
an interest rate of 3.54%  and was set up over 60 months, so her monthly  payment was 
around £135 per month. 
Mrs C made  her repayments on the loan, and by August  2018  the balance  stood at around 
£5064 outstanding. Mrs C had separately  built up other debt balances, in credit cards and 
finance agreements. 
In August  2018,  Mrs C approached Santander for a further loan to buy a car. She was 
unable to attend her usual  branch  of Santander  and attended an appointment at another 
branch. 
Mrs C discussed her existing borrowing with the member of staff and was offered a further 
loan, of £1506.62, in order  to repay  her existing loan and to make available  a further £10,000  
of lending. The member  of staff noted  this as being  for debt consolidation purposes.  
The loan offered to Mrs C had an interest  rate of 15.9% and, over 60 months, was to be 
repaid at £357.18 per month. 
Mrs C accepted the loan, and the member of staff transferred funds to settle her original loan 
while she was in branch. Further  payments were then made  to settle other  debts, including a 
credit card and an overdraft debt, leaving Mrs C with a small residual balance from the new 
lending. 
Mrs C did not cancel  the new loan within the cancellation period, as she believed she was 
unable to, having used the capital to settle  other  debts. 
Mrs C has subsequently  struggled to maintain her repayments, and complained to 
Santander in November 2018,  after having had the loan in place for only a few months. She 
complained that she had felt pressurised into taking the loan at the higher interest rate and 
she did not think that the loan was affordable for her. 
Santander responded to Mrs Cs complaint  in November 2018. Santander upheld  parts  of 
Mrs Cs complaint, relating to the member  of staffs attitude and that she had had to travel  to 
a branch further away from her home. Santander  did not uphold her complaint  regarding the 
sale of the loan, however, and pointed to an assessment of affordability having  been done, 
and that the loan included  a cancellation period which  Mrs C had not used. Santander  
offered Mrs C £60 compensation for her distress and inconvenience  at having to travel 
further afield and at her feelings that the staff member had applied inappropriate pressure. 
Mrs C was not happy with this response and contacted  us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out his view to the parties. This 
view was that over all the loan which had been offered was affordable, based on the 
Ref: DRN20801352information given  by Mrs C, and was not mis-sold.  He was, however, concerned that as the 
loan appeared to be for debt consolidation purposes it was not appropriate to replace the 
original loan (of around £5000 at a substantially  lower rate) with lending at a higher interest 
rate. The investigator  considered that this ran contrary to the objective of reducing Mrs Cs 
liability.
The investigator therefore recommended that Santander recalculate the loan so that the 
interest rate of 3.54%  applied to the proportion of the second loan which  replaced  the first 
loan. He also recommended  that Santander apply 8% interest to Mrs Cs extra  interest 
payments and reduce her outstanding debt further. He also considered that Santander 
should pay a further £100 to Mrs C as compensation for her distress and inconvenience.  
Santander did not accept this recommendation and requested that the complaint be passed 
for an ombudsman decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In addition I have  made  some further  enquiries  with both Mrs C and Santander.  
Santander has provided additional  details  which  informed  its affordability assessment on Mrs 
C. Mrs C informed Santander  of her income  and expenditure  on the basis  that she had 
around £700 per month disposable  income, not taking into account expenses  such as food 
and bills. Santander has provided additional  evidence which  took into account standardised 
expenses, adjusted to Mrs Cs circumstances. 
On the basis of this evidence,  I consider  that Santander completed  a reasonable 
assessment of Mrs Cs income and expenditure at the time she applied  for the loan. This 
took into account her living expenses, existing debts (including those which  would continue)  
and the new loan repayment  and concluded that her income was sufficient to meet those 
expenses. 
I therefore agree that at the time the loan was approved, it appeared that it was affordable to 
Mrs C.
I also agree  with the investigators view that the reason for the borrowing is relevant, and 
should be borne in mind during the sale process.  Where a customer  is seeking borrowing for 
the purpose of debt consolidation, it is reasonable to expect that the lending will improve  the 
customers position in relation to overall  liability and regular outgoing  costs.  
Mrs C has provided information that her main credit card debt was offered on a similar 
interest rate to the loan which replaced it, and a further debt was reaching the end of its 
interest free period.  Consolidating  these  debts into a single payment on a comparable 
interest rate was reasonable and could reasonably assist the consumer. 
In respect of the proportion of the second loan which replaced  the first loan, Santander has 
set out that, because this extended  the life of the debt by around 22 months,  it reduced the 
monthly cost of this borrowing from around £136  per month,  to around £120 per month.  
Ref: DRN20801353I understand that position, but by extending the term and applying  the higher interest  rate it 
also added  around  £2000  total liability to that part of Mrs Cs debt. In my view this did not 
improve Mrs Cs position, and was not a reasonable alternative to Mrs Cs original loan. 
It may be that Mrs C would have chosen a monthly saving of £16 in exchange  for incurring a 
much greater liability, but I do not think it likely  that it was made clear  to her before she took 
on the loan that she would be incurring  so much more debt whilst still increasing her overall 
monthly repayments. Alternatively, if Mrs C considered  that it was so necessary to make  a 
small reduction in the monthly repayment  on that part of her debt that she was prepared  to 
accept a substantial  increase in the total debt then I also think  it is unlikely that her new total 
monthly repayment (of more than £350) was realistically affordable.  
Consequently, I agree with the investigators  view that this part of the loan was not 
appropriate for Mrs C and I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
In order to put matters  right I consider that Santander should  recalculate the loan so that the 
interest rate of 3.54%  applies  to £5064.62 of the total capital. This will reduce Mrs Cs 
monthly repayment for the remainder of the loan term. 
In respect of payments which Mrs C has already made, Santander should apply 8% interest 
to the proportion of Mrs Cs payments which reflect an over payment  on the recalculated  
loan. This can then be deducted from the outstanding debt. 
As I consider that this part of the loan was inappropriately sold to Mrs C, I agree with the 
investigators assessment  that compensation for distress  and inconvenience  should be paid.
A total of £160, when considered alongside the recalculation of the loan, is in line with other 
awards we would make in similar circumstances, and is reasonable in my view.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct  Santander  UK Plc to:
recalculate Mrs Cs loan,  from inception, so that the rate of 3.54% applies to 
£5064.62 of the loan capital;
recalculate Mrs Cs monthly repayment for the remainder  of the term, using the 
amended interest rate;
treat the proportion  of Mrs Cs payments  to date, which exceeds the new monthly 
repayment, as overpaid interest;
pay 8% interest on Mrs Cs overpaid interest,  from the date of Mrs Cs payment up 
until the date of settlement. The above  overpayment and interest  can be offset 
against the outstanding balance; and 
pay to Mrs C a total of £160 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2080135