K821x#15complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about a claim he made on his Society of Lloyds business protection  
policy, which Lloyds declined.
Mr S says the policy should  provide  him with cover  and wants Lloyds to honour  this.
background
In September  2015 Mr S made a claim on his business protection  policy  for cover  to defend 
a claim made against him for personal injury sustained  by his customers whilst they were 
engaged in a leisure activity his business  offers.
Lloyds considered that claim and concluded the policy excluded  the circumstances the claim 
had been made in. Specifically they said they wouldnt indemnify Mr S in respect of any loss 
that is caused by one participant to another or one member to another. 
Mr S wasnt  happy with this. He feels the nature of his business is leisure activities involving 
more than one participant or member so he should be covered for this. Hes also unhappy 
about the time it took Lloyds to decline his claim.
Our investigator considered Mr Ss complaint and concluded that Lloyds applied  the policy 
exclusion fairly. The term was clear and formed part of Mr Ss policy.  However he thought 
that the time it took Lloyds  to confirm that cover wasnt  in place was too long. He asked 
Lloyds to compensate  Mr S for this by recommending they pay £300.  Lloyds agreed to pay 
this, although  they maintain they dont think any prejudice was caused  to Mr S as a result  of 
any delays. Mr S doesnt agree. Hes asked for things to be considered  afresh so the matter 
has been passed to me to determine. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I think that this 
complaint should  be upheld  for the same reasons set out by the investigator.
The complaint Im looking at is whether it was fair for Lloyds to turn down cover  for the 
claims Mr S has received against him in the way that it did. So Im not considering  whether 
the policy was suitable for his needs  or sold to him correctly. Thats not something Lloyds is 
responsible for because  they didnt sell the policy  to Mr S. So I wont comment  any further on 
the submissions made by Mr S in this regard.
I can see that the policy schedule contains  the following  exclusion:
The COMPANY will not indemnify the INSURED in respect of any loss that
(d) is caused by one participant to another participant and or a member  to another member
The facts  of the claims brought against  Mr S arent in dispute. The claims are for negligence 
arising out of alleged  injury caused by one participant to another in the leisure activity Mr S 
offers. The exclusion  is unambiguous and in the circumstances  of this complaint I dont 
consider there to be any reason why Lloyds wasnt entitled to rely on it. Because  of that I 
dont think Lloyds are obliged to cover the claims made against Mr S.
Ref: DRN23750812I have also considered the delays in Lloyds or their agents communicating the outcome of 
their claims decision to Mr S. I can see from the correspondence  between the parties  that 
Mr S made his claim  for cover to Lloyds in November 2015.  Lloyds confirmed they werent  
prepared to fund the claim  in May 2017. They say this was because the third party claimants 
didnt bring their claims to them for some time. But I dont think this prevented  them from 
making a decision  on cover sooner and communicating this to Mr S. The loss adjuster 
appointed by Lloyds confirmed the information  needed to turn down the claim in November 
2015 - namely  that the activity that was being claimed for involved injury from one participant 
to another.  So I think Lloyds  couldve saved  Mr S 18 months of waiting. And it wouldve 
meant he couldve found legal representation  without the pressure of having  to deal with the 
claims against him at short notice.  Because of this I think a payment of £300 in 
compensation is appropriate. I know  Mr S doesnt  feel this is enough, but its in line with what 
this service considers  reasonable in similar circumstances.
I appreciate that Lloyds  have agreed  to make payment of the £300 recommended by our 
investigator for the same reasons as me. I direct Lloyds to do that, if they havent already 
done so.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint  in part against  The Society of 
Lloyds and direct  them  to pay him £300 in compensation  for the delays in confirming  the 
outcome of his claim to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2375081