K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a monthly  premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr C bought the policy to protect  his repayments when he took out a loan in 2009. He took 
the PPI out on the phone.  The policy provided Mr C with cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed, so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
On Mr Cs credit agreement the cost of the PPI was set out separately under the 
heading Loan Protection Insurance . Under  this heading, it said the insurance was 
optional and asked  the customer to tick the box if they wanted to purchase  the 
insurance. Mr C indicated he wanted PPI by placing a tick in the box. It said on the 
agreement that PPI would cost £77.70 per month for 84 months, and the total cost 
would be £6526.80 over the period of the loan.  So, overall I think  Lloyds made Mr C 
aware he had a choice about  buying PPI, and he chose to take it out. I can 
understand he might not remember this now given how long ago the sale was.  
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C. I think it was suitable  for him based on what 
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr C was entitled to six months  full pay 
and six months half pay from his employer if he was sick. He said he was also 
entitled to a generous amount of redundancy pay. But the PPI wouldve paid out on 
top of this - for up to the duration  of the loan for accident and sickness claims and for 
up to 12 months for unemployment. So, I still think the policy  couldve provided  him 
with useful cover.
Mr C said he had some savings put by, which he couldve used to meet his 
repayments if he wasnt working. But given that these wouldve covered his 
repayments for less than six months,  I cant see that his other resources made the 
policy clearly unsuitable  for him. The policy wouldve allowed him to use these 
savings to meet his other household expenses if he was out of work.
Mr C had to pay a monthly amount for the PPI and the cost of this was set out on the 
credit agreement. I cant see that the PPI was unaffordable.  I think the cost of the PPI 
was made clear to him and he agreed  to take it out. 
Ref: DRN25205402Its possible Lloyds  didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr C 
doesnt appear to have  been  affected  by any of those  things. So I think  its unlikely he 
wouldve made  a different  decision if better  information  had been provided   overall, 
I think he would  still have  taken out the policy. 
So, I dont think Lloyds  mis-sold this policy to Mr C. This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission  and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Mr C about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2520540