K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Miss T complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined Miss Ts claim for 
critical illness benefit unfairly.
background
Miss T took out a decreasing-term assurance policy with life and critical illness cover with 
Aviva in 2006. The original sum assured was around  £83,000 and the policy  had a 23-year 
term. The policy was sold to Miss T by a third party.
Unfortunately, Miss T was diagnosed  with breast  cancer in 2017 and was off work for a 
considerable time. She contacted Aviva to see if she could make a claim on her policy.  She 
explained she had an in situ cancer, that required lumpectomies, a mastectomy and the 
removal of lymph nodes. Aviva said Miss Ts policy covered invasive  cancers only,  and 
specifically excluded claims  for in situ cancers.
Miss T was unhappy with Avivas response, especially as Aviva  told her its newer  policies 
offered cover for in situ cancer. Miss T referred  her complaint to our service  to review. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Miss Ts claim but didnt uphold it. He thought  Avivas 
policy excluded in situ cancers, which was what Miss T claimed for, so didnt think  its 
decision to decline her claim was unreasonable. The investigator explained if Miss T no 
longer thought her cancer was in situ, she could contact Aviva again.
Miss T disagreed with our investigators opinion. She said the policy  covered for the loss of 
limbs and body parts, so she wanted  to know if breasts and lymph nodes were  covered 
under this section  of the policy. She also said a pathology report  had not been requested.
Our investigator explained Miss Ts policy covered the loss of limbs, but the removal  of 
breast tissue or lymph  nodes didnt meet the policys definition of the permanent physical 
severance of two or more limbs from above  the wrist or ankle joint.  The investigator asked 
why Miss T thought a pathology report was needed.  He explained Miss T had told Aviva her 
cancer was in situ but, if she thought that was not the case, she should tell Aviva who would 
investigate her claim further. But based on the information available, the investigator thought 
Avivas decision to decline her claim was reasonable. 
Miss T asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She added  she wasnt  happy with 
how Aviva  dealt with her on the phone.  She was frustrated her policy  didnt cover her 
condition and had been too frightened  to cancel her policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Id like to say how sorry I 
was to read of Miss Ts illness. Her complaint has resulted from a very difficult time for her. 
But my role here is to assess  whether Avivas  decision  to decline Miss Ts claim was a 
reasonable one.
Aviva says the terms of its policy exclude  Miss Ts claim. Miss Ts policy offers  critical illness 
cover for conditions listed in the policy. The policy defines cancer as:
Ref: DRN25450232A malignant tumour characterised by the uncontrolled  growth and spread of malignant  
cells and invasion of tissue. The term cancer  includes  leukaemia  and Hodgkins Disease 
but the following are excluded:
a)all tumours  which are histologically described as premalignant, as non-invasive  or 
as cancer in situ
Im satisfied this is the relevant term of Miss Ms policy.  I dont think the term regarding  the 
loss of limbs is relevant,  as the removal of a breast  or lymph nodes  does not meet the 
policys definition of the loss of limbs quoted above.  Therefore, the question  for me to 
answer here is whether Miss T has shown her cancer meets  her policys  definition  that she 
suffered from a malignant tumour characterised by the uncontrolled growth  and spread of 
malignant cells and invasion  of tissue.  
Ive listened to Miss Ts call to Aviva, in which she explained her cancer diagnosis. On the 
call, she said she had early breast  cancer.  Aviva explained the cancer definition  outlined 
above, and in response, Miss T said she had in situ cancer that had required operations.  
Avivas adviser explained the policy didnt cover for in situ cancer, but she would check  if it 
covered mastectomies as some later policies provided this cover.  After putting  Miss T on 
hold, Avivas adviser confirmed Miss Ts policy didnt offer cover  for mastectomies. Avivas 
adviser told Miss T to bear in mind  that the policy will pay out if she is diagnosed with 
invasive cancer in the future. I think the information Aviva provided  in its calls with Miss T 
was correct and the way it handled  her calls was reasonable.
I know Miss T needed  to undergo several  operations to remove her cancer. But Miss T 
hasnt provided  any further evidence from her doctors to show  her cancer was a malignant  
tumour involving the uncontrolled  growth and spread of malignant  cells and invasion of 
tissue. So I dont  think Miss T has shown  her cancer  meets her policys  definition. Aviva  has 
only been told by Miss T that her cancer was in situ, so I think  Aviva was reasonable in 
declining Miss Ts claim because in situ cancers are excluded  under her policy.
I know Miss T says newer policies offer cover for her type of cancer,  but I can only assess 
whether her cancer meets  the definition of her actual policy. I note Miss T has had her lymph 
nodes removed.  If Miss T now considers her cancer  to be invasive, she should provide 
further medical evidence to Aviva,  which should  reconsider  its decision. And whilst I hope 
Miss Ts cancer  does  not return,  she may be able to make a successful claim in future if she 
can show shes met the policys requirements for a successful claim or her diagnosis  
changes. 
Whilst I think Avivas  decision to decline  Miss Ts claim based on the information  shes 
provided so far is reasonable, Aviva  should  consider Miss Ts claim afresh if she provides 
further information about her diagnosis. Following my decision, Aviva should  send  Miss T a 
claim form. This will give Miss T the opportunity to provide Aviva with more detail about her 
diagnosis, should  she wish to do so. 
my final decision
Whilst I realise my decision will disappoint Mr M and Miss T, Im not upholding their 
complaint for the reasons explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss T 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Ref: DRN25450233Victoria Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2545023