K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2000. Mr S says Canada  Square Operations Limited  (formerly Egg) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
I think Egg made it clear  that Mr S didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out
 although I can understand  why he cant remember this. I say this as Ive seen copies of the 
screens I think Mr S wouldve seen and completed during his online credit card application. 
These show Mr S wouldve had to select either yes or no for the PPI before continuing with 
his application.  So I think Mr S would have known  he was taking  it out when he ticked  yes to 
add the cover. He could have ticked no if he didnt want  it.
I dont think Egg recommended the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide  if it was 
right for him.
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI knowing his sick pay entitlement   so it looks like he
still wanted this type of cover. And in any event the policy would have paid out on top of any 
sick pay he received from his employer and for longer than he would have received his full 
rate of pay. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.
Which means I dont think Mr S has lost out because of anything Egg has done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint  about  Canada Square
Operations Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2655407