K820x#14complaint and background 
Mr and Mrs N bring  this complaint with the assistance of a claims management company. 
For simplicitys sake Ill refer to any submissions made on their behalf as if Mr and Mrs N 
had made  them themselves.   
Mr and Mrs N have complained that NRAM mis-sold them  a Payment Protection  Insurance (PPI) 
policy to go with a mortgage taken out in May 2002. The policy was taken out in June 2003 and the 
mortgage was redeemed in February 2006.  Mr and Mrs N complain, amongst other  things, that 
they did not want or need the policy and it was not suitable for them.  
Our adjudicator considered this and thought  that the PPI was missold  by NRAM. In response to the 
adjudicators assessment,  NRAM disputed that the PPI was missold  and, in any event, it said that it 
wasnt responsible  for the PPI sale. 
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 20 February 2019, which  is attached and 
forms part of my final decision.
Since issuing my provisional  decision, Mr and Mrs N and NRAM Limited have confirmed  that 
they have received my provisional decision. Neither Mr and Mrs N nor the Business have 
submitted any further comments or evidence for me to consider. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We have set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and I have taken this into account in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Ns case.
I assume that Mr and Mrs N and NRAM do not accept  my decision.  But neither the Business 
nor Mr and Mrs N has presented anything new for me to consider, and I dont see any 
reason to go behind my findings in my provisional decision. So, Im not going  to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ns complaint  against NRAM.
my final decision
I conclude that NRAM Limited is responsible for looking at this complaint  about the PPI sale. 
And for the reasons given above, my decision is the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2019.
Marie Lewiecki
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN21102332copy  of provisional findings
complaint and background
Mr and Mrs N have complained that NRAM mis-sold them a Payment  Protection Insurance  (PPI)  policy  to 
go with a mortgage taken  out in May 2002. The policy  was taken out in June 2003 and the mortgage was 
redeemed in February  2006.  Mr and Mrs N complain, amongst other things, that they did not want  or need 
the policy  and it was not suitable for them. 
Our adjudicator considered  this and thought that the PPI was missold by NRAM.  In response to the 
adjudicators assessment, NRAM disputed that the PPI was missold and, in any event,  it said that it wasnt 
responsible for the PPI sale. 
Because NRAM didnt agree with our adjudicators findings - Mr and Mrs Ns complaint has come to me for a 
decision. 
Mr and Mrs N bring this complaint with the assistance of a claims management company. For 
simplicitys sake Ill refer to any submissions made on their behalf as if Mr and Mrs N had made them 
themselves.  
my provisional  findings  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ns case.
provisional decision  in responsibility for sale
As Ive explained, Mr and Mrs Ns complaint is about this PPI policy being  mis-sold. But the business  theyve 
brought their complaint against, NRAM, originally  said it didnt sell the policy to them  so it isnt responsible 
for anything  that mightve gone wrong  with the sale. It said that a broker sold the policy  so it, not NRAM, is 
responsible for addressing  this complaint.  
But, following  new evidence I requested from the insurer  in this case NRAM now accepts that it did sell the 
policy to Mr and Mrs N. And having considered carefully all the evidence and submissions from all parties  I 
think that NRAM did sell the PPI policy and so it should answer Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. 
my provisional  conclusion on the merits 
Theres only limited information available about  this sale. Neither NRAM nor Mr and Mrs N have been 
able to provide all the documents from when the PPI was taken out in 2003. I dont think  thats 
surprising. I wouldnt expect NRAM (or Mr and Mrs N) to have kept these  records for so long.  And it 
wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mr and Mrs N might  be able to remember about  the sale 
after such a long time.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Mr and Mrs N were eligible  for the policy. 
In order  to uphold this complaint Id have to find it likely that Mr and Mrs N werent given a fair 
choice about PPI or that it was added to their mortgage account  without  their consent. But I cant 
fairly say this based on the information Ive got. Ive not seen anything  that clearly shows NRAM 
didnt make  Mr and Mrs N aware  that they were taking the PPI or that it was optional.  Whilst  I 
acknowledge that Mr and Mrs N may not have been given  a fair choice, considering how long ago 
Ref: DRN21102333the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient  evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on 
this point. And having considered all the submissions  and evidence I have received in this case, I 
have seen no evidence to make me think Mr and Mrs N were placed under undue  pressure  to 
take out the PPI. I also note that Mr and Mrs Ns PPI was taken out in June 2003 sometime after 
the mortgage was taken out in May 2002 so I think  Mr and Mrs N would have known that the 
lending was not conditional  upon them taking out PPI. I think its more likely that NRAM wouldve 
made Mr and Mrs N aware  that the PPI was optional  and that they freely chose to take it, even 
though they may not remember  that now, many years later.
NRAM may not have recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs N. But even  if it had made  a 
recommendation, I think it would  probably have been an appropriate  one in their circumstances  at 
the time. Not being able to pay a mortgage can cause significant  difficulties. So I think it would  
have been potentially useful. 
I have  seen no evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs N had any significant  savings at the time.  
The PPI was payable monthly and could  be cancelled  at any time. I have  seen no evidence to 
make me think that the PPI was unaffordable to Mr and Mrs N.
Its hard to know  how well NRAM  explained  the cost of the policy. But, in any event,  for the 
reasons contained in this decision I dont think full and clear  information  about  the costs would  
have affected whether  Mr and Mrs N took the PPI.
Its possible  NRAM also didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But based 
on what  I know of Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances at the time,  its unlikely  Mr and Mrs N would  
have been materially  affected by any of these so that it affected their decision to take out the 
policy.
Ive also thought  about  everything Mr and Mrs N have said - including  what  they have said about 
their existing benefits  (including full sick pay from their employers).  But the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to their existing benefits (and for potentially  for longer)  so these points dont 
change my decision.
I also note Mr and Mrs N say they could have relied on friends  and family if they did not have  any 
other way of making their repayments if they needed to. But this cannot be guaranteed  and I think  
theyd have soon  found it difficult to meet  all their expenses if one of them  lost their job or was 
unable to work. So again I think the policy  offered a useful benefit.
Mr and Mrs N had a financial commitment secured on their home. The PPI was intended to 
remove the additional pressure of paying the mortgage at what  might be a difficult time financially.  
I think it would have given  Mr and Mrs N additional peace  of mind in relation to an important  
financial commitment. Having considered  all the evidence  in this case, I have seen no evidence  to 
make me think the PPI was unsuitable for them.
Ive thought  about  everything Mr and Mrs N have said but these points dont change my decision.
my provisional  decision
I am currently minded to conclude  that NRAM Ltd is responsible  for looking at this complaint  about the 
PPI sale.  And for the reasons given above, my provisional decision  is that I do not uphold  this missale 
complaint.  
I now invite  both parties to let me have any submissions they may wish to make, in response to my 
provisional decision  in writing 20 March  2019, after which I will issue my final decision.
Marie Lewiecki
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2110233