K822xcomplaint
Mr G complained about how CIS General  Insurance  Limited handled his cars repair, after he 
claimed under his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Gs car was damaged  in an accident and CIS agreed to repair  it. He said that this took 
them much longer than they had estimated. He was also unhappy with the communication  
from CIS, their approved repairers, and the company who had arranged his car hire. 
CIS said that any delays  were out of their control,  but they offered him £50 as a goodwill 
gesture. 
The investigator recommended  that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. He thought that CIS 
could have done things differently, and recommended that they pay him another  £50 in 
compensation. 
CIS accepted the investigators recommendation, but Mr G didnt agree and so his complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before CISs  approved  repairer (CISs  garage)  took his car in for repair, they estimated the 
repair to take about  seven  to ten days.  But they then discovered that his cars surface 
exterior had been  modified. Because  of the difficulty in achieving  a good colour match if they 
resurfaced only the damaged parts of the car, the whole  car had to be redone. CIS had 
difficulty finding someone to do this. Mr G suggested  alternative suppliers, but they couldnt  
do it either and so in the end they had to go back to CISs original supplier. This meant that 
although Mr G put his car in the garage in early  February, he didnt get it back  until mid April.
Mr G felt this took too long, and that CIS didnt keep him properly informed. He had a hire 
car but he thought that CIS didnt communicate with the hire car company and so they kept 
trying to take his hire car back. He wanted  compensation for the delay  and his loss of 
working time while he chased CIS for information.
Mr G had his hire car under a separate credit  hire arrangement which  was between  him and 
the hire company and CIS were not involved in that. And so, I agree  thats  not something 
CIS are responsible  for and Mr G would  need to take that up with the hire company 
separately. 
Mr Gs car was still roadworthy, and so when there  was a delay, CIS offered him his car 
back rather than keeping  it until the repair materials were supplied, but he didnt want  that. 
I also note that when the repair was done, some  of the cars  paintwork was found to have  
pre-existing damage, not related to the accident.  CIS had that repaired  before applying the 
new surface, as a goodwill gesture. They dont need to repair pre-existing damage,  so I think 
that was reasonable of them. 
Ref: DRN24809362I accept that the main  repair  issue was not CISs fault, because they were reliant on 
suppliers for that. But I agree with the investigator  that CIS could have  done  things slightly 
better. In particular  there were times  in the process when they could have been more 
proactive. So, I agree  that CIS should pay Mr G £50 in compensation for this, in addition  to 
the £50 they have already  paid.  
I see that CIS have  agreed to this. I appreciate  that the situation  was stressful for Mr G, and 
know that he thinks that this doesnt  compensate him as he would like, but it is in line with 
our other awards for this type of issue and I do think it adequately reflects what CIS did 
wrong and its impact on him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
CIS General Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr G £50 in compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he experienced. This 
is in addition to the £50 compensation they have already  paid him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman 
CIS must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell them  Mr G 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If CIS considers that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr G how much they have taken off. They should also give 
Mr G a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2480936