K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that Best Risk Management  & Financial Service  Limited (Best Risk) mis-
sold her income protection policy. 
background
Mrs E held an income protection policy which had been arranged through Best Risk. The 
policy was designed  to provide Mrs E with a monthly  benefit  in the event that an accident, 
sickness or unemployment rendered her unable to work. 
A few years after the policy  had been arranged,  Mrs E made a claim on it. She said her 
mental health meant shed been unable  to work.  But the insurers of Mrs Es policy  declined  
her claim and said the policy excluded claims where the insured wasnt under the continued 
supervision of a Consultant Psychiatrist. 
Mrs E said that Best Risk hadnt brought that exclusion to her attention,  and she hadnt 
agreed to the policy being  arranged, so Best Risk had mis-sold  it.
Best Risk said itd spoken to both Mrs E and her husband before arranging the policy,  and 
had sent Mrs E two emails which set out the details of the policy including  that particular 
exclusion. Best Risk maintained itd sold Mrs Es policy correctly.
One of our investigators  has already  looked  into this complaint. She thought that Best Risk 
had done enough to make  Mrs E aware of the policys terms and conditions  including 
bringing that particular exclusion to her attention  and was satisfied that Best Risk had 
spoken to Mrs E before the policy  was arranged. So she didnt recommend that Mrs Es 
complaint be upheld. 
Mrs E rejected those  findings and maintained that shed never had any contact with 
Best Risk. So the complaint has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint and will explain why.
Mrs Es policy was arranged in 2015 and was sold on a non-advised basis. That meant 
Best Risk needed to provide Mrs E with enough information to make  an informed choice 
about whether  the policy was right for her. And that information needed to have been clear, 
fair and not mis-leading.  
Ive listened to the three calls that seem  to have taken place around the time of the policy  
being arranged.
The first call took place  with Mrs Es husband, and the types  of policies that were  available  to 
Mrs E were  discussed. During that call Best Risk told Mr E that it would  send Mrs E quotes 
for two different policies. And it explained thered be key facts about  both policies in its email 
for her to read. 
Ref: DRN24411282The second  call started with Mr E answering the phone,  but he told Best Risk hed pass  the 
phone over to his wife  and a female  took over at that point.  Best Risk checked it was 
speaking with Mrs E before going on to refer to her by name throughout the call, and that 
wasnt challenged in any way. That female was able to confirm the email address previously 
provided to Best Risk as Mrs Es. And at one point  during the call she asked Best Risk to 
pause, because  her husband is saying something . At which  point Mr E was heard talking in 
the background.
Best Risk made reference to Mrs Es place of work during the second call, and this wasnt 
disputed or challenged in any way. It also referred to the previous email  itd sent Mrs E, and 
the female on the phone  told Best Risk she would read it the following day. Best Risk also 
explained in this second call that all available policies would require Mrs E to be signed off 
by a consultant,  bar one which wasnt the policy that went  on the be arranged. 
I appreciate that Mrs E has said it isnt her on the phone. But having  listened to that call, the 
calls that Mrs E has had with our investigator,  and for the reasons given above, Im 
persuaded that it is.
Mrs Es policy was arranged during the third call. That call took place with Mrs Es husband 
and Best Risk told him itd email a copy  of the policy documentation,  including key facts and 
wording to Mrs E. It also advised that Mrs Es new insurer  would send her hard copies of the 
policy in the post and explained the cancellation  rights that came with the policy.
Best Risk has provided the two emails it said were  sent to Mrs E. The email address that 
those emails were sent to is the same  address  that both Mr and Mrs E had given and 
confirmed as being correct for Mrs E. And theres  nothing to suggest that the emails werent 
delivered  for example a delivery failure  notification. Further, Mrs E doesnt appear to have 
been in touch with Best  Risk at any point  to advise that the email she had explained  shed 
be going to on to review  the day after Best Risks call hadnt been received. So, on balance, 
Im satisfied that Best Risk sent the emails to Mrs E that it said it did. 
The first email that Best Risk sent contained  a quote for the policy Mrs E currently has. It set 
out the costs and benefit of that policy. And it also included a key facts document and policy  
summary. The key facts document said:
What is not covered?  (Exclusions)
The main  reasons we decline  to pay some  claims for Accident and Sickness  (Disability):
Stress, anxiety, depression, fatigue or any other mental or nervous disorders or 
conditions of a psycho-neurotic origin,  unless diagnosed by and under the continuing 
supervision of a registered Consultant Psychiatrist. 
And the policy summary set that particular exclusion out too. So I think Best Risk did provide 
Mrs E with clear, fair and not misleading  information. 
The second  email Best Risk sent to Mrs E contained  confirmation  of the policy  thatd been 
arranged for her. It advised  Mrs E that she would receive her policy and other  related  
documents in the post. Mrs E hasnt denied receiving those items in the post. And I think  its 
clear that she knew she had a policy in place,  because she later went  on to claim against  it. 
Ref: DRN24411283I appreciate that Mrs E has further  concerns about  her husband taking out the policy for her 
and has said that he did so without her permission.  But Im not persuaded that Mrs E was 
unaware that a policy had been arranged for her because: 
Confirmation of it having  been arranged was emailed  to Mrs E. So if she had 
concerns about an application being made without  her consent, I think  it reasonable 
to say she could  have queried  that with Best Risk at the time.
A monthly premium  had been  charged  for the policy since its inception in 2015.  So if 
Mrs E had concerns  about paying  for a policy which she hadnt  agreed to, I think  it 
reasonable to say she could have queried what  those payments were for.
Mrs E was sent annual reviews  of her policy, which  not only set out the cost and 
benefit of it, but also set out the Consultant Psychiatrist exclusion as well. So if Mrs E 
had concerns about the policy or the exclusion at that point,  I think  it reasonable that 
she could have  queried those documents too. 
It is for the reasons given  above that Im satisfied Best Risk provided Mrs E with enough  
clear, fair and not misleading information  to check whether the policy it arranged was right 
for her. And why Im not persuaded  that the policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2441128