K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about a number of recommendations made to him by an advisor at Regent 
Wealth Management. The complaint I am considering here is about  some pension switches, 
which he thinks were unnecessary, and some  of the investments made in the pensions 
involved, which he thinks carried  too much risk. At the time of these switches and 
investments Regent  Wealth Management  was a registered individual and trading style of 
Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Limited (Positive Solutions). 
background
Regent Wealth Management (Regent) was a registered individual and trading  style of 
Positive Solutions from 20 September 2004 to 22 May 2011 and, during much  of this time,  
acted as Mr Ws financial advisor.  As Positive Solutions registered  individual,  Regent was a 
self-employed agent. I understand  Regent became registered as an independent regulated  
business in its own right (i.e. not as a registered  individual and trading style of Positive  
Solutions) from 1 April 2011. 
Mr W sent a complaint letter to Regent  on 2 October 2014, and a copy of the same  letter  to 
Regent on 13 October 2014 by recorded delivery.  The 13 October  2014  recorded delivery 
letter was signed  for by someone with the same second name  as Regents advisor the 
following day. This letter was not acknowledged or otherwise responded to. 
In my provisional decision I explained  that, in my view,  Mr W had made  a number of 
complaints, and it was appropriate to consider some of these separately. Neither  party made 
any comment on this so I see no reason to further  consider that point. We will now consider  
separate complaints, as set out in my provisional  decision. The complaint I am considering  
here relates  to what I have set out below. The rest of Mr Ws complaints  will be looked at 
separately, as set out in my provisional  decision.  An investigator will get in touch with Mr W 
and Positive Solutions  about those complaints in due course.  
a switch from a Skandia personal  pension to a Hartford personal  pension
On 20 October 2008 Regent wrote to Mr W detailing advice to switch the cash  value of his 
existing personal  pension with Skandia to a personal pension  with Hartford, and invest  in a 
Guaranteed Retirement  Income Plan (GRIP). This involved investing in a growth portfolio, 
and a guaranteed minimum level of income being  offered at a selected  retirement  age. 
The fact-find completed at the time of the switch  to the Hartford  scheme records  Mr W was a 
company director, and drawing £65,000 a year income. The fact-find included the following 
notes: 
[Mr W] informed me that the [Skandia pension] funds were  valued at circa £293,220.00 in 
May 2006 and had fallen  to £252,037.00 by October 2008. He is very concerned by this fall 
in the value of your pension funds and are aggrieved that action  has not been taken sooner 
to protect  the value  of your funds,  especially  over the past 12 months  or so.
We have discussed  the various  options open to him at this time with regards to protecting 
the value of his funds  whilst seeking  to gain exposure to equities and any possible positive 
fund growth this exposure may have.
Ref: DRN20874312[Mr Ws] main objective is to protect the accumulated pension  assets  whilst  looking to 
maximise capital growth. [Mr W] plans to retire aged 75, which  is in 13 years time.
ATTITUDE TO RISK
The client's risk profile overall is medium. An example of a "medium"  risk investment would 
be pooled investments in stocks  and shares  such as those in a managed  fund, UK 
Growth/European Growth  or commercial property funds, but would exclude specialist areas 
such as Smaller Companies/Technology etc.
Regent set out the advantages  and disadvantages  of the switch as follows: 
The advantages of this are as follows:
GUARANTEED FUND  VALUE
FUND GROWTH LOCK IN UP TO 10% PA
GUARANTEED INCOME IN RETIREMENT
GUARANTEED DEATH BENEFITS
DEPENDENT CONTINUATION OPTION
Disadvantages include the following:
NEW PAPERWORK TO COMPLETE
FUND VALUE MAY REDUCE DURING TRANSFER.
Hartford has confirmed £252,777 was paid into the pension by Skandia  in November 2008, 
and invested in the Hartford Platinum  Growth Portfolio. This investment was sold on 16 April 
2010 and £349,373.22 was paid into a Hawthorn Life cash  fund. Shortly  after this the money 
was switched to another  personal  pension  (Ive set the details of this out below). 
Hartford has also confirmed that Regent  was recorded as the advisor when the pension was 
opened, and that commission of £7,583.30 was paid by it to Positive Solutions with 0.5%  trail 
commission paid monthly thereafter. 
a switch from the Hartford  personal  pension to a IPM SIPP and the investments made  
in the IPM SIPP following that switch 
An IPM SIPP was opened in Mr Ws name on 13 April 2010. £341,906.79 (the entire transfer 
value of the Hartford pension, after a commission charge  had been  deducted  by Hartford) 
was switched from the Hartford pension to the SIPP on 29 April 2010. 
On 11 May 2010 £320,000 of the cash held in the SIPP was invested in Metlife.  The advice 
to make this investment  was detailed in a suitability letter from Regent dated  4 June 2010, 
which describes the advice  as being to switch to a Metlife SIPP. Positive Solutions has 
confirmed it received £9,600 commission from Metlife for this investment. 
The comments in the fact-find document completed  at the time of the switch from Hartford  to 
the IPM SIPP, to make  the Metlife investment, include the following: 
Ref: DRN20874313You are currently  working and expect to be doing so for the foreseeable future, you would 
like to begin taking  income benefits  from your pensions at age 75 although you would like 
the flexibility to begin drawing an income earlier if you so wished. You wished to diversify  
your investments, with the major proportion being  invested into a suitable  "Third Way" 
guaranteed product. You wished to have any investment gains locked-in every two and a 
half years  on an uncapped basis. Your main objective is to protect your accumulated 
pension assets  whilst  looking  to maximise  capital growth.
£320,000 of Mr Ws pension was invested in the MetLife Cautious Index portfolio, with a 
secure income option.  This was described in the illustration produced for Mr W as follows: 
The Secure Income Option provides a guaranteed  minimum income  for life in the future.
Your initial Secure Income  Base  is £320,000. For each year that you defer the 
commencement of income  your Secure Income Base will increase by 3.00% of your initial  
investment. When you take an income at age 75 your Secure Income Base  will be no less 
than £416,000.00.  Based on this age, the Secure  Income Base will be multiplied by 4.75% to 
give you a guaranteed yearly minimum income for life of £19,760.00.
If your investments grow  at 7.0%  a year, at age 75 your guaranteed minimum income would 
be £22,000.00, taking into account  lock-ins from fund value reviews.
On 16 June 2010 £20,000 was paid from the SIPP to a stockbroker called Lewis  Charles 
Securities (also known  as Hartmann Capital). £15,000 was paid back  into the SIPP  by Lewis  
Charles on 12 January  2011, and a further £750  was paid back on 14 January 2011. IPM 
has provided us with statements for the account  Mr Ws SIPP held with Lewis  Charles. 
These show the money sent to Lewis Charles was used by it to trade options in oil, currency,  
and UK shares.  The account continued  to operate until at least April 2013, when it had a 
value of around £21,000. The evidence  provided  by IPM shows  that Regent instructed this 
account to be opened on 16 April 2010.  
£15,762.50 was paid from the SIPP to a stockbroker  called Saxo  on 10 March  2011. This 
money was used to fund an investment  in a company called Alexander David  Investments  
(also known as Regen  Therapeutics) on 21 March 2011. The Saxo application form recorded 
Mr Ws advisor as Alexander  David  Securities,  and the FSA reference number of 469150 
was quoted. 
In 2013 the cash and investments in this SIPP were switched to another SIPP. I understand 
this was done on the advice of Regent, which was acting  independently  of Positive  Solutions  
by this time.  
our investigations
One of our adjudicators looked  at the switch from the Skandia pension, and concluded it was 
not suitable. She thought  it fair to ask Positive Solutions to compare  the performance of the 
pension to a benchmark, and pay compensation if this demonstrated a loss. 
Positive Solutions did not accept this view. It said, in summary: 
Ref: DRN20874314It thought the Hartford personal pension was suitable  the evidence  shows Mr W 
was concerned about the fall in the value of his pension  and wanted  some protection  
for his benefits. 
The adjudicator  was expecting it to compensate Mr W for  investment decisions it did 
not make. Its liability is only to the point Mr W chose to enter into investments it did 
not advise on. 
The complaint  has only been made as a result  of some unregulated  investments 
Mr W made, which it did not advise on. Were it not for those, no complaint would 
have been made. 
Regent made it clear  that it could only act as an introducer where a type of 
investment was involved that Positive Solutions did not deal with. 
The advice given  to switch to the Hartford pension featured a detailed discussion of 
risk, and took full account of Mr Ws circumstances and wishes. 
Positive Solutions later said it thought Mr W had referred his complaints to us too late. In 
support of this it referred to problems with a Romanian fund Mr W held in another  pension 
Regent had advised on, and said this fund had been suspended in 2011. It thought  Mr W 
ought to have been aware of a problem with the advice he had received then.  
Another adjudicator  looked at the time-bar point and said he thought the events subject to 
complaint had all happened within six years of Mr W making his complaints. So, on the basis  
of the relevant rules, he did not think Mr W had referred his complaints to us too late. 
Later, an investigator considered the submissions  Positive Solutions  had made about its 
responsibility for some of the things  Mr W had referred to when making his complaints. She 
said she did not think Positive Solutions  was responsible for everything Mr W had 
complained about.  Mr W did not accept  this view. 
my provisional findings 
I recently issued a provisional decision.  My provisional findings were, in summary: 
The complaint  had been brought  within  the six year time limit required by our rules. I 
thought it likely the 13 October  2014 complaint letter, at least, was received and the 
record of the recorded  delivery  was a written  acknowledgement or some  other  record 
of the complaint having been  received  within the required timeframe, which  the 
relevant rule required. 
The advice to switch  to the Hartford pension  was set out in a letter dated 20 October  
2008, and the switch  completed after that. The switch to the IPM SIPP  took place in 
April 2010, and the investments were made in the SIPP after that. So the events 
complained of all took place  less than six years before  the complaint was referred  to 
the respondent (Regent, the trading style of Positive Solutions) and a written 
acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint  had been  received. The 
complaint had not therefore been made  too late. 
The acts this complaint relates to were:
Ref: DRN20874315oAdvice by Regent to switch from the Skandia pension to the Hartford  pension, 
and make the associated  investment  in the Hartford scheme. 
oAdvice by Regent to switch from the Hartford scheme to the IPM SIPP, and make 
the associated  investment  in Metlife. 
oAn investment  in the shares of Regen Therapeutics/Alexander David 
Investments, made in a Saxo stockbroking  account,  which  Mr W says was made 
on the advice  of Regent. 
oA transfer of money to and from Lewis  Charles  Securities, which is no longer 
trading, and the investments I understood  had been made using  that money. 
I was satisfied that Regent carried  out the first two acts,  and was acting as Positive 
Solutions agent when doing  so. I was also satisfied Positive  Solutions  accepted  
responsibility for these  acts. 
I thought the other two acts had been carried out by other  regulated businesses. In 
both cases the available  evidence showed  Mr W gave  another  regulated  business  
(Lewis Charles or Alexander David Securities) the authority  to make investments on 
his behalf and it seems it was those businesses, rather than Regent, which made  the 
investments in question. 
So I was only going to consider:
oThe advice by Regent to switch from the Skandia pension to the Hartford  
pension, and make  the associated  investment in the Hartford  scheme. 
oThe advice by Regent to switch from the Hartford scheme to the IPM SIPP,  and 
make the associated investment in Metlife. 
I considered this advice was unsuitable. I thought there  was insufficient justification 
for either  the switch to the Hartford pension and the associated  Hartford investment 
or the switch  to the IPM pension, and the associated investment in Metlife. 
The Hartford Platinum Growth portfolio, according to the illustration produced  for Mr 
W at the time, was invested 74% in equities, 20% in fixed  interest, and 6% in 
property. Mr Ws Skandia  pension  had been invested in a range of fund which gave 
him exposure to the same asset  classes, albeit with a larger  exposure to property, it 
seems. So I did not think moving  to the Hartford product did much to protect Mr W 
from the volatility that was concerning him. 
The Hartford product  did provide  guarantees, but I didnt think they were sufficient to 
address Mr Ws concern. It didnt protect the value  of the invested funds, as such. It 
instead guaranteed an income based on at least the initial amount invested. And it 
would increase that guarantee  (subject  to a 10% cap) if the value on the annual 
anniversary was higher than it had been  at any previous anniversary.  But it did not 
offer any capital protection from market volatility  Mr Ws money was still exposed to 
that volatility. 
Ref: DRN20874316So the product  didnt  completely reconcile  with Mr Ws recorded objectives  it didnt 
protect the value  of his funds. It only guaranteed that hed be paid a certain level of 
income at his retirement date in 13 years time, if he kept the Hartford  pension and 
took income from it at his retirement date. In the meantime if the market  fell the value 
of his fund would fall too, and if Mr W wanted to transfer elsewhere hed receive the 
prevailing fund value not any guaranteed  amount.  
I didnt think a guarantee  on income, in itself,  was particularly important for Mr W. 
The fact-finds completed by Regent record that he was being  paid enough income 
from his business  to more than meet his needs,  and there  is no suggestion  that 
would not continue  his business was long established. Hence he was delaying 
taking his income until the latest date allowed  when he turned 75. It seemed  Mr 
Ws concern was with the capital value of his pension investments, and specifically 
with falling fund values in a time of significant  market volatility.  
I also didnt think the listed advantages  and disadvantages  of the switch, as set out 
by Regent, were a fair reflection of things. As mentioned, there  was no guaranteed  
fund value, as such  only a guaranteed income, derived from the fund value either  
at the time of transfer or a later date,  if sufficient growth was achieved  between  
anniversary dates. And dependant continuation  and death benefits  are things that 
could have been achieved though Mr Ws existing pension  when he took benefits 
from it, or may already have been  features of it. There  was also no reference to the 
set up costs associated  with the Hartford scheme, the fact that Mr W would only 
receive the prevailing fund value (which might  be lower  than the transfer  amount) if 
he did not take income from Hartford, and that he may have to pay an exit penalty if 
he decided to move away from Hartford. 
The switch to the Hartford scheme also involved a significant increase  in ongoing 
costs, and the initial commission would be recovered through the penalty charge 
mentioned above if Mr W moved his pension away from Hartford  within  a certain  
timescale. I was not persuaded that the overall difference in costs was made  
sufficiently clear  to Mr W by a balanced  comparison between  the Skandia and 
Hartford schemes. 
Overall, I was not satisfied this advice was suitable. I was not persuaded that, in the 
circumstances, it was suitable advice to say this was a better option than the Skandia 
pension. The Skandia pension likely  had a very wide range of investment fund 
options available which  could have been  accessed  with less overall costs, and used 
to meet  Mr Ws objective of reducing his vulnerability to the market volatility being 
experienced at that time. Id not seen  sufficient evidence  to show  that significant 
consideration was given to this option, or that it was offered to Mr W alongside a 
balanced explanation of the advantages and disadvantages of keeping the Skandia 
pension and changing the investment funds or moving to the Hartford  scheme.  
At the time of the switch away from the Hartford scheme Mr Ws main  objective was 
again to preserve the value of his pension fund.  And he was again recommended  a 
product that guarantees income  to achieve this. In any event, I was not persuaded 
that there was sufficient  difference  between this product and the Hartford  scheme 
(which, in itself, I did not think  was suitable),  to justify the recommendation. In making 
the switch Mr W incurred a charge to move away from Hartford, an initial charge for 
entering the Metlife  product and a further  increase  (from  the Hartford scheme, and 
therefore the Skandia scheme earlier) in ongoing  costs. 
Ref: DRN20874317The suitability letter Regent  issued  in relation to this switch  was more comprehensive 
than the one issued in relation to the switch to the Hartford scheme (although  I note it 
does not appear  to mention the charge Mr W would incur  for transferring away from 
the Hartford scheme). It goes  into more detail about  the advantages  and 
disadvantages of the switch, and I think offers more balanced view of things than the 
earlier suitability letter for the Hartford switch. But the advice was nonetheless  
unsuitable  in my view it repeated the initial unsuitable advice and compounded 
things by exposing  Mr W to yet more charges and a further  increase in costs. 
In both instances I thought Regent  put its interests ahead of Mr Ws by 
recommending an option which would generate a large amount  of commission  and 
incurred him unnecessary  initial and ongoing costs  by doing so. And the 
recommendations made  do not appear to have addressed Mr Ws core objective  
which was to reduce  his vulnerability to volatility in the capital value of his pension  
investments. 
Both Positive Solutions  and Mr W made  some comments  on my provisional findings. 
Positive Solutions said, in summary: 
It does not agree  that the advice to transfer into the Hartford Platinum Growth 
Portfolio was unsuitable. It met Mr Ws objective  to protect his funds. Those funds 
were ultimately going to be used to buy an income and the safest way of protecting  
those funds was to purchase  a product that not only provided a fund guarantee but 
also guaranteed  a level of income when  the Mr W decided  to draw  on those funds at 
his intended retirement age.
The fact that those funds were  still exposed to volatility meant nothing as the product 
guaranteed a level of income  based  on the initial amount  invested.   
In addition, if the funds increased  in value then it is clear Mr W would enjoy the 
benefits of that growth in terms of a fund increase and an associated increase in the 
guaranteed income  amount.  Given these facts there would  be no downside  risk to 
Mr W remaining  in the product until his intended retirement age.
When considering  what  benchmark to use to calculate compensation I say Mr W 
wanted capital  growth  with a small risk to his capital. Clearly this isnt correct as I say 
earlier in my provisional decision that he wanted  to protect his funds against losses,  
and the only way to be certain to achieve  this would be to place the money  in a 
deposit account.
So if compensation were appropriate  any notional  value  should  be based  on fixed 
rate bonds  only.
Positive Solutions made no comment on any other  aspect of my findings.  
Mr W said, in summary:
Ref: DRN20874318The benchmark proposed to calculate compensation is inconsistent with his attitude 
to investment risk. It should be based  100% on the FTSE  UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index. He was medium risk and he was prepared to accept 
some risk to capital. To say that 50% of the fund would be invested in 12 -17 month 
fixed rate bonds (with effectively cash-like risk and returns), would be inconsistent 
with this. The FTSE UK Private Investor  Balanced Index could also be considered 
appropriate as 100% of the benchmark.  
Lewis Charles and Alexander David were in fact anything  but a simple introduction. 
In the case of the Lewis  Charles Account, on the recommendation of Regent, a 
signed and witnessed  Power of Attorney  authority  was provided to Regent to enable 
it to operate  the account on a daily basis. The advice from Regent was that he would 
not be sufficiently  knowledgeable to do this himself. He never  placed  any 
investments with Lewis Charles/Hartmann. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whether this complaint 
is one we can look at. Neither party has made any comments on my provisional  findings on 
this point. Having  reconsidered this, I see no reason to depart from those provisional 
findings. I remain satisfied  this complaint is one I can look at, for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, which are summarised above.  So Ive reconsidered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I remain of the view that the advice given to switch from the Skandia  pension to the Hartford  
one, and switch  from the Hartford  pension to the IPM pension, was unsuitable.  But I also 
remain of the view that Positive Solutions  is not responsible for all the investments 
associated with those  switches, as some of them  were made by other businesses. 
Turning first to the investments I do not think Positive Solutions  is responsible  for  those 
made through Lewis Charles and Alexander  David (in a Saxo  account)  - I acknowledge the 
points Mr W has made  about the extent  of Regents involvement. But I have  not seen any 
evidence to show that the investments made in the Lewis Charles or Saxo accounts were 
made on the advice  of Regent. The available evidence shows  Mr W became a customer  of 
Lewis Charles in respect of the former and of Alexander David in respect of the latter. It was 
Alexander David that was the advisor  on the Saxo  account and gave  the investment 
instructions. And the money paid to Lewis Charles  was held on an account with it and it used  
that money to place  trades in options in oil, currency,  and UK shares. So, even  if I were  to 
accept that Regent did more than merely  introduce Mr W to those businesses  for example,  
that Regent recommended their services or gave the green light to recommendations they 
made  I dont think it would be fair (setting aside any issues associated with the agency 
arrangement between Positive  Solutions and its trading style, Regent) to say that Regent, 
and therefore  Positive  Solutions,  is responsible for the investments made. The investments 
were made by Lewis Charles  and Alexander David and those businesses  are therefore 
ultimately responsible  for them. If Mr W is unhappy with the investments, he ought to 
consider making  a complaint against  those businesses, or a claim to the Financial Service  
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) if they are no longer  trading. 
Ref: DRN20874319Turing to the remainder of the complaint, I note Positive Solutions has only commented  on 
the first switch  the switch from the Skandia  pension to the Hartford  one  and the 
investment associated with that. In respect  of that switch, I accept that it is arguable  that the 
characteristics of the GRIP associated with the Hartford Platinum Growth Portfolio go some 
way to meeting  Mr Ws objective  of protecting the value  of his funds. But the overall switch 
needs to be considered i.e. the pros  and cons, and the exact nature of the guarantee 
offered by the Hartford Platinum Growth Portfolio. For the reasons given in my provisional 
decision I remain of the view that the advice  to switch was unsuitable, when everything is 
taken into account.  I also think, setting aside  the suitability of the advice, Mr W would  have 
been unlikely  to accept it, had things  been  fully explained to him. 
As mentioned in my provisional decision,  the Hartford  Platinum Growth  Portfolio was similar 
to Mr Ws existing investments, held in the Skandia scheme. The only significant difference  
was the income  guarantee or GRIP offered by the Hartford investment. So did that match  
Mr Ws objectives - and was it therefore enough  to justify the extra costs that were incurred 
by the switch, considering the alternative of simply changing the funds held in the Skandia 
scheme? I dont think it did match Mr Ws objectives and I think  the switch  was not therefore 
justifiable. Mr Ws objective was to protect the value of his capital,  not the income that was 
paid from it. The fact the money invested  with Hartford  was exposed to volatility did not 
mean nothing, as Positive Solutions  says in its reply  to my provisional decision. The safety 
net of the income guarantee would only apply if Mr W did not move  his pension again,  did 
not take income elsewhere, and survived to his intended retirement  date. I do not think  those 
conditions reconcile with Mr Ws overall  objectives, or his circumstances. Taking income was 
not a priority for Mr W and there  was a relatively  long time (around 13 years) until he would 
have to take income. 
I note that Mr W was assessed as holding a medium attitude to risk. That contradicts the 
objective of protecting the value  of his funds, to an extent. And it seems likely to me that 
Mr W, in common  with many other investors at the time, was seeking some shelter from 
market volatility, rather than outright capital protection. And I think that could have  been  
achieved by switching  the funds held by his existing pension with Skandia.  
Had a full and balanced explanation of the pros and cons  been given to Mr W, alongside  a 
full comparison between  the Skandia and Hartford pensions,  I think  it unlikely Mr W would 
have accepted the advice  to switch. I think the extent of the cost he was to incur would have 
been clear to him, and that it would  also have been  clear to him that the Hartford  investment 
did not guarantee the fund value,  as Regent  had suggested. 
Neither party has made any comments on my provisional findings in relation to the switch 
from the Hartford pension  to the IPM one. So I see no reason to depart from my provisional  
findings on this. It seems the switch was made primarily to facilitate the Metlife investment, 
which had very similar  characteristics to the Hartford one. So it compounded the earlier 
unsuitable advice,  and incurred additional  costs  when  doing so. However, for the reasons 
given, I do not think  it would be fair to say Positive  Solutions is responsible for the 
investments later made  using the money  left in the IPM pension (i.e. those made in the 
Lewis Charles and Saxo  accounts). 
In summary,  for the reasons given here and in my provisional decision,  summarised  above,  
my decision  is that Regent gave  Mr W unsuitable advice to switch from the Skandia to the 
Hartford and later IPM pensions, and Positive  Solutions is responsible for that to the extent  I 
have described. I have therefore reconsidered the question of fair compensation. 
Ref: DRN208743110fair compensation
Regent made further changes to Mr Ws pension after it became an independent business. 
So I think it is fair to say Positive  Solutions is only responsible for the period from the date of 
the first unsuitable switch  to the point  where  the pension  was switched again, under the 
advice of Regent acting independently of Positive Solutions. A comparison should therefore 
be made between  the return Mr W received between  the date of the first switch  and the date 
when a further switch was made away from the IPM pension, and the return he would likely 
have received had these  switches  not been  made. That comparison should however exclude 
the investments  I have  concluded Positive Solutions  was not responsible  for. 
As mentioned, I think a suitable option for Mr W could likely  have been found through his 
existing Skandia  pension. And I think hed likely  have moved  to a lower risk investment, to 
get the lower exposure to volatility that he wanted.  I dont know exactly what  Mr W would 
have invested  in, so I think  it fair to ask Positive Solutions to use a benchmark  with the 
qualities of an investment of the type Mr W would likely have made. 
I think Mr W would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what  he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ws 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
 
what should  Positive  Solutions do?
 
Both parties  disagree  with the approach  to compensation I set out in my provisional 
decision. In short, Mr W thinks I should use a higher risk benchmark against  which  to assess  
loss, and Positive Solutions thinks I should use a lower risk one. 
As I mention above, I think it likely Mr W wanted  to reduce his exposure  to risk. So I dont 
think a benchmark  which reflects the risk he was then exposed to is appropriate. But I also 
dont think he did not want to take any risk at all. So I dont think  a benchmark with no 
associated risk is appropriate either. Clearly, I dont know  exactly what Mr W would have 
done, had he been suitably advised. But having carefully reconsidered  things I remain  of the 
view that the approach  to compensation I suggested  in my provisional  decision is fair, given 
the overall circumstances.  
So, to compensate Mr W fairly, Positive  Solutions must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ws pensions over the period mentioned with that of 
the benchmark shown. If the fair value  is greater than the actual value, there is a loss 
and compensation  is payable.  If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
 
Positive Solutions should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Positive  Solutions  should  pay into Mr Ws pension plan to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection 
or allowance.
Ref: DRN208743111If Positive Solutions is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ws pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ws actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr W would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Positive  Solutions  deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr W how much  has been taken off. Positive Solutions should 
give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN208743112investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
Mr Ws 
Hartford 
and IPM 
pensionstransferredfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average  
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of the 
switch to the 
Hartford 
pensiondate of the 
switch out of 
the IPM 
pension8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to 
the date of 
settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Positive  
Solutions should use the monthly average  rate for the fixed  rate bonds with 12 to 17 months 
maturity as published by the Bank  of England.  The rate for each  month is that shown as at 
the end of the previous  month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
The amounts paid out the IPM SIPP to Lewis Charles and Saxo should be treated  as a 
withdrawal out and deducted  from the fair value calculation  at the point  they were  actually  
paid so they cease to accrue any return in the calculation  from that point on. Allowance will 
need to be made for the amount returned from Lewis Charles  before the money was paid 
out to Saxo. This can be done  by either  treating the amount returned by Lewis  Charles as an 
addition to the pension or by simply reducing  the amount  paid out to Saxo accordingly when 
carrying out the calculation. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr W wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Ref: DRN208743113I consider that Mr Ws risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr W into that position.  It does  not mean that Mr 
W would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker  investment. Rather,  I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr W could have  obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude. 
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my decision the advice  to switch from Skandia to the Hartford  
scheme and from that scheme to the IPM SIPP was unsuitable. It is therefore fair and 
reasonable to uphold  Mr Ws complaint, to the extent I have described. Positive Solutions 
(Financial Services) Limited should calculate  compensation  as I have set out above, and pay 
Mr W any amount  due. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2087431