K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms unhappy that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc will not refund the money he paid on his credit  
card for a service he bought.
background
Mr M used  his credit card twice in November and December 2017 for a cosmetic procedure. 
He says he was sold a follicular  unit extraction hair transplant  but actually received a skin 
micro pigmentation procedure where the scalp is tattooed to look like its been recently 
shaved. Hes unhappy with the service  he was given by the provider  and brings his 
complaint against  Bank of Ireland under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  He 
wants the amounts  he paid refunded  by Bank  of Ireland.
Bank of Ireland  had trouble locating  the original contract with Mr M and paid him £50 in 
acknowledgement of the way it dealt with the claim. And it declined his section 75 claim.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
For Bank of Ireland  to be responsible the service  provider would have to have 
misrepresented the service. Although  the promotional material  references hair 
transplants it also prominently mentions both micropigmentation and tattooing.  
Nothing explicitly says this would be a hair transplant procedure.  So, he cant hold 
the bank responsible for any misrepresentation of the terms in the promotional  
material. 
The sale itself was done in person and he cant know exactly  what was said. But the 
fact that two out of three sessions of the procedure were carried out before Mr M 
raised issues suggests he would have been reasonably aware  the service involved  
tattooing of the scalp rather than a hair transplant. As a result  he cant say it was 
likely the procedure was represented  as a hair transplant.
Mr M now has concerns over the quality of the service. He says the procedure  looks 
like small blotches  on his scalp.  But in the absence of an independent  report on the 
services quality he cant say the results  seen after the two sessions make the 
procedure unfit for purpose. The service  provided was micropigmentation of the scalp 
and the pictures  Mr M has supplied  show his scalp has been tattooed to give the 
appearance of hair follicles.  Theres no indication of scarring or obvious errors. The 
statement from another provider doesnt  say Mr Ms level of hair loss would make this 
procedure unsuitable for him. 
Taking everything into account  he cant say Bank of Ireland is wrong to have declined  
this section 75 claim and he cant ask it to do any more to resolve the complaint.
Ref: DRN25466612Mr M doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  He says theres clear 
evidence of a mis-sale  under section 75. The provider promised it would integrate  the hair on 
the top of his scalp with the scalp tattoo  to give his head the look of hair. This couldnt ever 
have been achieved. The treatment was unsuitable for him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Mr M has provided detailed submissions in this complaint. Ive read and considered them  all. 
But my findings  are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what I think are 
the main issues.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable I take into account relevant law. Mr M makes his 
complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 which in certain circumstances 
gives a consumer an equal right to claim  against  the supplier of a service or the provider of 
credit, if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
To be able to uphold  Mr Ms complaint about Bank  of Ireland, I must be satisfied that theres  
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the service provider.
In this case I dont think  Mr Ms established that theres been  either  a misrepresentation or a 
breach of contract.  Let me explain why.
Mr M originally said he was sold a hair transplant not a tattoo.  But he now appears to accept 
he was in fact sold a tattoo by saying he was promised the scalp  tattoo would  be integrated 
to give his head the look of hair.
We can never know what was said when the procedure was sold to Mr M but a message he 
was sent by the provider  says our practitioner has said that he would be able to give you a 
natural look. He will create a natural hairline and then replicate the follicles  across the top of 
your head  and into your crown and then blend  through your existing hair. The promotional 
materials Mr M was given  also appear to refer in general terms to both tattooing  and hair 
replacement.
Taking everything into account  I dont think Mr Ms shown that there was a misrepresentation 
of the procedure. I think its more likely that he was sold a tattooing procedure than a hair 
transplant. I also note that Mr M went through two tattooing sessions out of three before 
raising any issues with the provider. I agree  with the investigator that this likely shows  he 
knew he was getting a tattoo procedure. 
I also dont think Mr M has provided any evidence supporting his claim that this procedure 
was unsuitable  for him given his state  of hair loss. The other provider hes consulted  has 
only documented his level and type of hair loss and hasnt said anything  about the suitability 
of this tattooing  process for him.
Mr M has supplied pictures of his head and says hes unhappy with the quality of the 
procedure. But Im not convinced theres  been a breach of contract. The pictures appear to 
Ref: DRN25466613show his scalp has been tattooed to give the appearance of hair follicles. That appears  to be 
what was promised. And theres no evidence of any problems like scarring. In addition Mr M 
only chose to complete  two out of three sessions the final appearance of the procedure  may 
well be different and possibly better if the third session is competed.
Talking everything into account  I dont think Mr M has shown on balance  that there  was 
either a mis-representation or breach of contract. As a result I dont think  Bank  of Ireland has 
acted wrongly in declining his claim for a refund under  section 75. And I dont think I can 
reasonably ask it to do anymore than its already done.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2546661