K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc is holding her at fault following a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.  She wants it to change this to non-fault,  refund her policy  excess  
and maintain her No Claims  Discount (NCD).
background
Miss R was involved in an incident  with another  car when her brakes  failed. AXA held her 
liable for the accident. But Miss R thought this was unfair as she thought the brakes  were  
faulty. AXA is pursuing the matter with the cars  manufacturer, but in the meantime its held 
Miss R at fault, her NCD has been affected  and she has had to pay her policy excess. 
Miss R is unhappy with this and wants  AXA to record the claim as non-fault whatever the 
outcome with the manufacturer.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought AXA 
was pursuing the matter  with the manufacturer. But she thought this could take some time to 
resolve and the outcome wasnt guaranteed. She thought AXA could record the claim as 
fault if it didnt recover  its costs. 
Miss R replied that she thought this was unfair and morally wrong. She asked for her 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss Rs frustration  and her feelings that shes  been unfairly treated. She has 
explained that there was a mechanical fault with the brakes outside her control that meant  she 
hit another car. Miss R is being held at fault whilst liability is disputed with the manufacturer.  
She had to pay her £450 policy excess and her NCD, and future premiums, have been affected.  
Its now over a year since the accident and the matter has yet to be settled. 
Miss R thinks  the manufacturer should be responsible for the accident because  of the fault with 
the cars  brakes.  The adjudicator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was 
responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the courts.  Instead, our role in 
complaints of this nature  is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the 
claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions  of the policy?
AXA is entitled under  the terms and conditions of its policy with Miss R to take over, defend,  
or settle  a claim as it sees  fit. Miss R has to follow its advice in connection  with the settlement 
of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision 
about whether  it is reasonable  to contest a third party claim or better  to compromise.
I can see that AXA investigated Miss Rs claim and its engineers  considered that there  was 
evidence that there  was a fault with her brakes  that led to the accident. I can see that AXA has 
been trying  to get the manufacturer to accept liability for some time. If the manufacturer 
accepted liability,  then AXA would recover its losses and also recover Miss Rs policy excess. 
Ref: DRN23420582Ive looked at AXAs file, and I can see that it actively pursued the matter up until the end of 
April 2019. AXA has confirmed to me that there  hasnt been any further progress with the 
manufacturer to date.  Miss R has told us that, as far as shes aware, AXA is pursuing  the 
matter through  solicitors  and she hasnt been  told the case  is closed. I can appreciate  that 
Miss R wants  the matter concluded. But these  matters can take some  time to resolve. 
AXA explained to Miss R that if it didnt recover its losses, then a fault would be recorded 
against her. Her excess wouldnt be waived and her NCD would be affected. As the adjudicator  
has explained, this is standard industry practice  so I cant say its unfair  or unreasonable.
Miss R thought insurance industry practices were morally wrong  and unfair to consumers. 
But it isnt our role to investigate industry practices, but to look at individual  complaints. I 
think Miss R could raise these concerns with the regulator, the Financial Services  Authority, 
if so she wishes.
Miss R wanted AXA to provide proof  of her five years NCD to her new insurer. She thought  
AXA wouldnt lose out by doing this. But AXA is required to accurately record claims 
information. The claim is correctly recorded  as fault whilst its open and liability  isnt settled. 
So I cant require AXA to change  this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2342058