K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS)  have requested  
too many  instalments on a finance  arrangement and have wrongly  recorded  a default to his 
credit file.
background
In September  2014 Mr W took receipt of a new car. He financed the deal through a four year 
hire purchase agreement with VWFS. In September 2017 he sought to settle  the outstanding 
debt before the end of his agreement so that he could take receipt of a new vehicle.
He asked VWFS for a settlement quotation  and they told him hed need to pay £7510.85 in 
full and final settlement  and that this quote was valid until 22 September 2017.  So Mr W did 
the deal for his new car with the dealership. He collected it on 22 September and the new 
finance he arranged  (which isnt part of this complaint) paid off the £7510.85 VWFS had told 
him he needed to pay to settle the account.
In December 2017 Mr W received a statement  from VWFS which said the balance on his 
account was zero. So he was very surprised,  in January 2018, to receive  a notice of default 
from them. This said he owed them £195.79 as hed missed  an instalment. Mr W disagreed 
and he was concerned about  any adverse information  that may have been  reported to his 
credit file as a result. He complained to VWFS  but was frustrated with the customer  service 
he received. He said calls werent  returned;  waiting times were very lengthy; it proved  very 
difficult to get in touch  with a manager and he was sent a letter  that was meant for 
somebody else.
VWFS said a further settlement request had been  made in October  and the figure settled for 
was £7169.22. They said Mr W therefore owed them an additional months instalment for the 
extra time hed had the car before the settlement  was made.  
But Mr W was dissatisfied with their response  and he referred  his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  think VWFS  were right to request another  payment. She explained 
that Mr W didnt  have  his car in October  and couldnt  be expected to pay finance on 
something he didnt  have. She therefore  thought VWFS should waive the charge  of £195.79 
and remove any adverse records theyd made to Mr Ws credit file as she said the payments 
had been made in line with the settlement agreement. 
She noted that VWFS had sent Mr W a statement  telling him he had nothing  further  to pay 
and hed been refunded  the difference between  the final settlement  fee and the initial  
settlement fee so she thought it was clear hed understand the balance on the account  had 
been settled. She thought VWFS had been  wrong to subsequently  send Mr W a default 
letter. There  was nothing  due on the account and they hadnt advised him of the debt so she 
thought they should  clear any adverse reporting theyd made  to his credit file.
She went on to consider  the inconvenience Mr W had experienced. She didnt think  the 
credit reporting had caused him any problems as Mr W had explained that he hadnt made 
any credit  applications.  So whilst  she thought the credit  file should be amended  she didnt 
think there had been any loss on Mr Ws part.
But she did think VWFSs  actions and poor service  had inconvenienced  Mr W and she 
thought they should  therefore pay him £150 to compensate him for this.
Ref: DRN20440182Mr W agreed with the investigators opinion  but VWFS didnt. They  said theyd not been  
aware Mr W was settling  his account and theyd thought he still had the car in October. They  
thought he should have  told them about  the settlement  hed reached  with the dealership.  
They said it was the dealerships fault that the settlement hadnt been  made  in time and 
Mr Ws complaint  should be directed at them. They therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W asked for a settlement  figure  in September. That figure was £7510.85 and he 
proceeded to finalise  his new car deal before  the settlement quotation expired. Im 
persuaded that he took receipt  of his new vehicle on 22 September. So from that point  Mr W 
had nothing further to pay to VWFS.
It wouldnt be fair to ask him to pay finance instalments on a vehicle he no longer owned.
I dont think it would  be reasonable to expect him to inform VWFS about what  was 
happening. It would have been  clear  to him that the settlement quotation was valid; the new 
finance was paying this off and his responsibility for the debt on this agreement therefore 
ended on 22 September.
I dont think it would  be fair for me to hold Mr W responsible  for the fact VWFS clearly 
thought he still had possession of the car. This is a matter between VWFS and the 
dealership.
And Mr W would have  been assured hed settled the debt with VWFS as he was provided 
with a statement  showing the balance of his account was zero.
I can therefore understand  Mr Ws confusion when he was sent a default  notice  in January. 
Hed been told the account  balance  was zero and hadnt been informed of any outstanding 
debt. I think the account balance  should have been zero and VWFS were  therefore wrong to 
issue a default.  They should therefore amend  his credit file to show  this and waive  the 
balance of £195.79.
The confusion here appears to have stemmed from miscommunication between the 
dealership and VWFS. I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Mr W to resolve  this with 
the dealership.  Its VWFS  who are asking him to pay an outstanding  debt and threatening 
Ref: DRN20440183further action  and its VWFS who have  reported the default to his credit file. So they should 
remedy the situation and this may involve them discussing  the matter  with the dealership.  
But its clear Mr W has been inconvenienced  by this matter. Hes had to engage in lengthy  
and complicated  arguments  about  what was paid and whos responsible.  I can also see hes 
had difficulty contacting VWFS; getting  call backs; speaking  with a manager  and receiving  
the wrong post. These are issues that I note VWFS  have not responded to. I think, with all 
things considered, VWFS should compensate Mr W for the inconvenience  hes experienced 
and I agree with the investigator  that £150  would  be fair in the circumstances.
Im not persuaded that the defaults reported  to Mr Ws credit file have had any impact on him 
financially as Mr W has explained that hes not made any credit  applications.  So Im not 
suggesting the compensation should be any higher.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
pay Mr W £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hes 
experienced
remove any outstanding charges  on his finance  agreement showing it as settled 
remove any adverse records they may have made to Mr Ws credit file in relation to 
this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2044018