K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains about how AXA Insurance  UK Plc handled his claim for theft under his car 
insurance policy. 
background 
Mr G held a car insurance policy with AXA. In December 2018, his car was taken by 
someone he knew without  his permission. He notified the police and then reported  the car as 
stolen with AXA on 21 December 2018. 
The car was later found deserted and submerged in a lake. AXA sent Mr G an email on      
27 December 2018, which included all of the necessary paperwork that needed to be 
completed for the claim  to be considered. But Mr G claims  to have asked AXA for this all to 
be sent by post,  before  it sent this email to him  because he was unable to complete and 
return information in this format, due to an issue with his computer. Mr G then grew  
concerned at the apparent lack of progress when hed not received  the documents by post. 
Especially, when hed been paying  for a hire car since 20 December  2018  and was anxious 
about whether  a courtesy car would be provided by AXA. He tried calling AXA on several 
occasions for an update, along with sending it emails. 
AXA claimed not to have  been aware of the need  to provide the information by post, so it 
posted these papers  on 15 January  2019.  Shortly afterwards, a courtesy car was arranged, 
with AXA paying  for a hire car for Mr G starting  from 19 January 2019.  AXA subsequently 
told Mr G that this benefit was expiring, because the policy entitled him to fourteen days of 
having a courtesy  car  so on 6 February 2019 it asked for the hire car to be returned.  
Mr G expressed  his unhappiness with this, considering the concerns he had with AXAs 
claim handling. He also explained that hed been  experiencing  problems with his health, that 
had meant  hed not had the chance to find an alternative car to buy. As a result,  he chose  to 
continue to hire a vehicle and was aware  that this was outside of the policy cover.  
Mr G raised a complaint  with AXA, unhappy  with what he thought was undue delays to the 
claim, along with being unable to reach his designated claims handler despite  trying 
numerous times. Further, he was dissatisfied with how long AXA took to disclose  the 
whereabouts of the car once it had been  recovered   which  he urgently needed to know  
because his belongings needed to be recovered,  including the keys to his home. Then,  to 
retrieve these items,  Mr G was forced  to travel a considerable  distance.  Aside  from this, 
towards the beginning of the claim AXA had sent Mr G an email in error,  which  declared that 
he was at fault  for the theft of his car. Mr G found this extremely concerning and it was only 
when he contacted AXA that it apologised  that this correspondence had been sent by 
mistake. 
Mr G completed  the necessary paperwork and sent this information back to AXA by 
recorded delivery on 13 February  2019. To corroborate the theft, AXA contacted the police 
and the crime  reference number was validated on 21 February  2019.  AXA then provided    
Mr G with the settlement  amount and he accepted this, so the payment was initiated on           
22 February 2019. 
Ref: DRN25152922Mr G remained  unhappy with the way the claim had been handled and thought AXA should 
reimburse the costs  hed incurred for the hire car hed paid for. So, he brought the complaint 
to our service. During her investigation, one of our investigators received an offer of 
compensation from AXA for £200. This was to reflect  the impact caused  to Mr G. Overall, 
our investigator thought  this to be fair and reasonable to put right the complaint and 
therefore didnt  recommend  that it be increased.  AXA agreed with this opinion.  
Mr G does not agree. He reiterates that AXA should have known that he required the claim 
forms by post  but it instead sent him this by email. He submitted that he was left with no 
choice but to hire a car for longer than the policy benefit of a fourteen-day courtesy car and 
believes that AXA should cover these costs.  Overall, Mr G considers that he should  be 
awarded more compensation, in light of suffering both financial loss and inconvenience at a 
time when  he was experiencing problems with his health, amongst other present concerns.
Because Mr G does not agree, the complaint has been escalated  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont require AXA to 
increase the offer of compensation  that its already put forward. Ill explain why. 
As a regulated insurer, AXA must  handle claims promptly  and fairly. Amongst other things, 
this means it has to provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder when a claim arises.
Its not in dispute  that AXA provided instructions on how to proceed  with the claim in its email 
to Mr G on 27 December 2018. Within this message, it was pointed  out that this pack of 
information would also be sent by standard post.  So, its unclear why Mr G didnt receive this 
information by post sooner than what AXA sent to him by recorded delivery on                    
15 January 2019.    
Consequently, information that needed to be submitted for the claim took longer than Mr G 
wouldve liked. However, ultimately, AXA provided instructions on what  it needed to process 
the claim within a week  of the first notification of loss  and it was only that Mr G was initially 
unable to return what was required that caused the submission of this information to be 
delayed. 
I appreciate that Mr G asserts that he made  AXA aware that he needed to receive post, 
rather than other methods  of correspondence. However, the documentary  evidence does not 
persuade me that this preference was received  by AXA before it sent its email  at the end of 
December 2018.  Conversely, it suggests  that the first recorded mention of this was more  like 
January 2019   some time after AXA had initially  provided the claim documents. And Mr G 
has not provided sufficient  evidence to compel me to think  otherwise. 
Even so, despite Mr G being unable to complete and return the information AXA emailed him 
 it strikes me that he was still able to view it, as in grasp what AXA was asking him to sort 
out. As I see it, he could  therefore take into account  the instructions that were set and start 
to work towards fulfilling  these. Indeed, by his own admission, Mr G was able to comprehend 
the information AXA desired based on this email,  so he organised what was needed in 
preparation for it being received by post.  And it was the same  documents (only this time in 
paper format) that Mr G successfully completed  and returned the following month.  
Ref: DRN25152923So, although  he may not have initially been  able to complete what  was needed,  Im not 
satisfied that AXA failed to provide Mr G with reasonable guidance in a timely manner. 
Rather, this information  was sent  but could just not be processed due to certain  restraints 
Mr G was unfortunately experiencing. Besides, its true to say that this obstruction  was not 
the result  of any error or oversight on AXAs part, because it cannot  be held responsible for 
the issues Mr G had with his computer. So, Im not satisfied that AXA was entirely to blame 
for this early part of the claims process being  fulfilled when it was.  
Moreover, Mr G completed and returned  what was necessary in mid-February 2019  
around three  to four weeks  after being in receipt  of AXAs letter to him. I appreciate the 
circumstances that he was experiencing at the time made  it difficult to gather this required 
information. And I empathise with what Mr G has described in terms of issues with his health  
and that of his family. Nevertheless, it strikes me that it was likely to have always taken Mr G 
this amount of time to finalise  the required forms  and AXA required information from him 
before it could take certain action on the claim. Therefore, I cannot safely conclude that AXA 
is responsible for the claim taking as long as it did.
AXA needed  to follow the directions of the local authorities in light of the theft potentially 
being a criminal matter.  We know that Mr Gs car needed to be recovered from where it was 
found and then returned back to a condition where  it could reasonably  be valued. AXA also 
needed to validate certain information  with the police, including the crime reference number 
submitted. And, of course, Mr G was going through a difficult set of personal circumstances. 
So, on the whole,  I find it fair to say that the nature of the claim meant  it could always have 
taken some time  notwithstanding any delays caused by information not being received by 
both parties at the start of the process.  Certainly,  I dont find it unusual that such  
circumstances meant  it took some  weeks to resolve. As it turned out, the claim was settled 
on 22 February 2019  around two months  after it was first raised. In my judgment,  I dont 
find it reasonable to conclude  that resolving matters  in this length of time could constitute a 
slow process  or be fairly  considered as AXA falling short  of its obligation to be prompt. 
Mr G claims to have  suffered financial loss and seeks  to be reimbursed  for the costs  incurred 
to him for hiring a car. Financial loss is usually considered a separate matter to an award of 
compensation by our service, in the sense that we generally look to put the consumer back 
in the financial  position they ought  rightfully to have been  rather than making a monetary 
award to put right the impact of any distress and inconvenience caused. So in this case, in 
order to decide  that AXA should  pay what Mr G paid I would need to be satisfied that  but 
for a mistake  by AXA  Mr G would  not have reasonably incurred these costs. 
Its not in question that Mr Gs car was declared  a total loss, having been  stolen. According 
to the policy  terms, he was therefore entitled to a courtesy car being provided for fourteen  
days; starting from the date the courtesy  car was delivered to him. Im satisfied that AXA 
paid for a courtesy car from 19 January 2019 until at least  6 February 2019  a total of 
nineteen days or more.  Its therefore my judgment that AXA exceeded the amount it was 
obliged to pay  so I cannot  fairly require it to make a contribution to Mr Gs car hire costs, 
on top of the amount its already paid. It also strikes me that Mr G had the benefit of using 
the hire car(s), including  once the claim had been settled. So, overall, Im not convinced that 
he was necessarily at a financial loss. Rather,  that he would always have had to have paid 
for the allowance  of a hired vehicle,  if he wanted  one for more than the policy  entitlement  of 
fourteen days with a courtesy car. 
Ref: DRN25152924Finally, AXA has accepted that Mr G had difficulties in reaching its staff by telephone,  in 
particular his original  designated claims handler.  I dont doubt  that this was frustrating for    
Mr G and I recognise the inconvenience this wouldve caused, especially  when  its clear  that 
he wanted the claim to proceed as a matter  of urgency. Notwithstanding this, I can 
understand that receiving an email declaring  he was at fault for the incident would be 
disturbing. Indeed,  Mr G contacted the police  to seek advice  about  how we could lawfully be 
held responsible for the theft  which shows me how seriously he took this allegation.  
With this in mind, I agree  that AXA ought  to award  Mr G compensation and Ive thought  
carefully about what this should amount to. AXA has put forward  an award of £200  to put 
things right. Having  considered the service Mr G received, I think  this award  is a 
proportionate reflection  of the impact  caused. So, it follows that I uphold this element  of 
Mr Gs complaint, and I think the compensation offered by AXA is fair in the circumstances.
I understand that Mr G may be under the impression  that AXAs offer of compensation 
increased to a total of £350,  even  if he did not accept this award. Considering AXAs  
submission, the evidence  before me does not substantiate that £350 was in fact the offer.  
On the contrary,  AXA appears  to have suggested  £200. In any event, I find £200 fair and 
reasonable to resolve the complaint. Therefore, I do not require AXA to increase this 
proposed compensation amount.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I understand that AXA Insurance  UK Plc has offered Mr G a total of £200 compensation, 
which I find fair and reasonable. So, AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay Mr G a total of £200, 
if it hasnt already done so, within 28 days of receiving notice from us of his acceptance of 
this decision, failing  which interest will start to accrue on this sum  or on any unpaid  
proportion  at the simple  rate of 8% a year (less  any tax properly deductible) until the date 
of payment.
Mr G should note that if he accepts my decision and AXAs  offer, it will be legally binding and 
he wouldnt  be able to take further action  over these matters. If, however, he rejects the 
decision or doesnt reply  on time, his legal rights  will remain  intact  but itll then be strictly a 
matter for AXA as to whether its offer remains open for acceptance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2020.
Matthew Belcher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2515292