K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the increases in premiums on his home insurance with UK Insurance  
Limited (UKI). 
background 
Mr Ss home insurance (buildings and contents) policy  was taken out with UKI in 2010.  The 
first combined premiums charged  in 2010 totalled  £466.20 (inc. legal protection and IPT) for 
the year. This increased every year as far as 2015  when the total premiums charged were  
£1,039.86. Mr S didnt  realise how much the premium had increased  until 2016 when he 
challenged the cost of the policies, and was offered a discount. He then called UKI as a new 
customer and was offered  an even  lower premium. He cancelled  the policies later in 2016. 
Mr S thinks  UKI has taken advantage of him by unfairly increasing the cost of the policy 
every year. He says he was charged  too much and he should be compensated for the extra  
he had paid over the years. 
UKI offered to refund  some of the cost of the insurance  with a £900 offer. Mr S rejected  
this and UKI has now offered to refund Mr S £2,000. Our adjudicator  believed  this was a fair 
way to resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S disagreed and didnt  think the latest offer was fair. He wants  proof that UKI did not 
overcharge him. He also wants 50% of his premiums back  for every  year he had the 
insurance, along with interest and a goodwill payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would 
be, in effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not 
my role. But I can look at whether UKI has treated Mr S fairly throughout the period 
he held his insurance policy. If I find that UKI hasnt treated Mr S fairly, I will look to 
see what compensation would be fair and in this case  whether I think  UKIs  offer is 
fair.
In 2010, Mr Ss home insurance cost £466.20  (combined) for the year. Often new 
policies will have introductory discounts. This isnt uncommon  and policies may well 
initially be priced lower to attract new customers.  I dont think  its unfair  for an insurer  
to seek to recoup  that cost over the first few years.
I can see that Mr Ss premiums continued  to increase each year and he didnt 
engage with UKI about his premiums until 2016. He says when he took out the 
insurance he was told he was getting the most competitive prices, and believed he 
was getting the best deal possible every year. Mr S says he was overcharged by UKI 
and didnt realise until 2016  when  he contacted  UKI to discuss his premium and 
challenged the cost. He decided to cancel his home insurance policies later in 2016.
Over  the years Mr S had the policies he made  two claims totalling just under £15,000 
and I think some of the price  increases will be down  to these claims. Often when  
Ref: DRN28351262someone make a claim,  that will increase their risk of claiming again, so the cost of 
insurance at renewals goes up. In Mr Ss case, I think  some  price increases were  fair 
due to his claims.  
Its possible that if a consumer hasnt been engaging with their insurer  over the price 
of their insurance over a number of years, an insurer could take advantage of that by 
increasing the price  of insurance  that wouldnt be fair. Looking at all the facts  I think 
its possible UKI should have realised by around 2015 that Mr S wasnt the type of 
person who shopped  around  for cheaper insurance regularly. So if it increased the 
price just because he didnt engage  at renewal,  that wouldnt  be fair. 
If I thought UKI had unfairly increased  the price  in 2015, I would consider it 
reasonable for it to work out compensation based  on Mr Ss premium in 2014, and 
refund any increase from this point (adding in interest for the time hed been out of 
pocket). UKI has made  whats likely  a greater offer than this of £2,000 to Mr S to put 
things right and I think this is fair. 
Mr S says he was taken advantage of and is owed a lot more than this in 
compensation. He wants 50% of his premiums  refunded for every  year he had the 
insurance, as well as a goodwill offer. Mr S points the cost the premiums he was able 
to obtain in 2016 when he called UKI as a new customer. New business premiums  
often have discounts built into them - to effectively attract customers. As this was a 
new policy being quoted in 2016,  its likely  Mr S received a discount on the premium 
cost as well. So it wouldnt be fair for UKI to use this different policy  cost when 
working out its offer. 
Having considered UKIs offer, I think its fair. It makes sure Mr S hasnt lost out if UKI 
did increase the price  just because he didnt engage  at each renewal.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, UK Insurance Limiteds offer is fair, and I dont think  it needs  to 
do any more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2835126