K822xcomplaint
Ms L complains that U K Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in connection with 
the home emergency section of her home insurance policy.
background 
Ms Ls policy covered  repairs  to her central  heating boiler. UKI was the insurer  responsible  
for dealing  with claims. Where I refer to UKI, I include engineers and others for whose 
actions I hold UKI responsible.
Ms L had no hot water  and called UKI for help.  She complained about the response.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought that - 
because of delays  and poor service  from UKI  Ms L was without hot water  for a month. The 
investigator recommended that UKI should compensate Ms L £200.00 for the stress  and 
inconvenience caused. 
UKI agreed  with the investigators opinion.
Ms L disagreed. She asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. She says, in 
summary, that £200.00 is still low.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covered repairs  up to a limit of £500.00. But it didnt cover  any work, including 
power flushing, due to water scale deposits  or sludge caused by corrosion.
If a boiler was beyond  economic repair, the policy didnt  cover repairs.  Instead  it covered 
£250.00 towards a replacement.
UKIs engineer visited on Bank Holiday Monday 27 May 2019. I accept Ms Ls statement that 
he only stayed for ten minutes.
 
On 30 and 31 May 2019 Ms L called to ask for an update. By 1 June 2019  UKI knew the 
engineer didnt have photos.  But on 4 June 2019 UKI declined  the claim on the basis  of the 
engineers report  that included  mention of signs of corrosion. 
On 5 June 2019 Ms L got an independent engineers report.  It included  a statement that 
there was no sign of corrosion. That report cost her £70.00.  It said she needed a new 
diverter valve and for the plate heat exchanger to be replaced or at least  cleaned.  Ms L told 
UKI about the report straight away. 
The engineers reports were inconsistent about  corrosion.  So UKI couldve arranged  a re-
inspection. Instead   on 21 June 2019 - it paid Ms L £70.00 to cover her engineers  report 
and £330.00 for the repairs. 
So I find that UKIs engineer had been  wrong  about  corrosion.  There  isnt enough evidence  
for me to say that he was dishonest.
Ref: DRN28077012Since she brought her complaint to us, UKI has offered Ms L £100.00 compensation.  
I accept that Ms L had to wait for the insurers payment before she could pay for the boiler to 
be repaired. 
In the meantime it was already a difficult time for her as she was in the process of selling her 
property. UKI had put her to the trouble of instructing and paying an engineer to do a report. 
I dont doubt that she felt UKI had tried to cheat her. And she was without hot water for about 
four weeks.  She had to travel to have showers  away from home.  
Overall I agree with the investigator  that £200.00 is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct U K 
Insurance Limited to pay Ms L £200.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2807701