K821x#15complaint
Mr W complained  about the suitability of advice from S4 Financial  Ltd (S4) to invest  in an 
unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS)  via his self invested personal pension  
(SIPP).
background
Mr W is complaining  about advice given by S4 in November 2011. He complained  to S4 in 
February 2018. S4 initially objected to us considering the complaint. It said the complaint 
had been made outside  the permitted time limits. 
I issued a jurisdiction  decision on 11 April 2019  setting out why I didnt  agree  the complaint 
had been made too late. The complaint had been made outside the primary six year period. 
It will only be in time if it was made  within three years of when Mr W became  aware  (or ought  
reasonably to have  become aware) he had cause for complaint. Mr W must have been  
unaware (and reasonably so) until sometime  after February 2015 that he had cause for 
complaint. In my decision I set out why I thought  that was the case. So the complaint had 
been made in time. 
In June 2010, S4 completed  a fact find with Mr W. It recorded that he was aged 55 
and employed  as a gardener.  I understand that followed a career change a year or so 
earlier. He had several rental properties  and the returns  from these  supplemented  his 
income after repaying the various mortgages in place. In addition, Mr W had several pension 
plans and held shares in a number of FTSE 100 firms. He intended to retire  at the age of 65. 
His attitude to risk was recorded as balanced.
S4 issued a suitability report to Mr W in January  2011 which  recorded his home  (owned  with 
his wife)  was worth about £775,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £450,000. They owned 
rental properties valued at about £1.6 million subject to around  £407,000 of outstanding 
mortgages. Mr W had retained  pension benefits  with an overall value of £240,000. The 
report confirmed S4 had completed the transfer  of four of Mr Ws pensions into a SIPP with a 
combined value  of around £213,000.  S4 recommended Mr W invest in a wide range of funds 
which was in line with S4s asset  allocation model  for a balanced investor.  The 
recommendations included the advice to invest £25,000 in the Merchant Place  Waste  to 
Energy investment (the Waste to Energy) Fund which was a UCIS.  
An additional  separate suitability report was issued to Mr W specifically for the advice to 
invest in the Waste to Energy Fund.  The report outlined some  of the risks the investment, 
including that it was high risk and potentially illiquid. S4s recommended that Mr W invest    
£25,000 in the Fund  as part of the balanced  portfolio  that we are building. This would  be 
topped up with circa £18,959 of limited  recourse bank funding to provide a gross  investment 
of £43,959. S4 added:  The gearing element of this investment allows the potential  capital 
growth and income  over a 5-7 year period  should be enhanced whilst the downside is limited 
to your original cash stake.
Mr  W signed the suitability report with the attached risk warning (about the limited recourse 
nature of the investment). He confirmed hed read and the recommendation and relevant  risk 
warning and wished  to proceed. He also confirmed the information memorandum and other 
relevant documentation. 
Ref: DRN29300962Mr W complained  to S4 in 2018  after the Waste to Energy investment remained illiquid 
despite a number of reassurances that the investment was due to mature. He felt the 
investment was high risk and illiquid  and therefore not line with his objectives or attitude  to 
risk at the time. S4 said the investment was only a small proportion  of his overall portfolio, as 
such it was a suitable investment recommendation.
One of adjudicators investigated the complaint  and felt it should be upheld.  He noted Mr W 
didnt have any experience of investing  in UCIS, and that his pension  was over exposed  to 
such investments. There was nothing to suggest  that Mr W wouldve  understood  the UCIS 
recommendations made to him, or that he was willing to take on such risks. In addition, the 
promotion of UCIS  was restricted  and the adjudicator wasnt satisfied that the requirements 
had been met. The UCIS investment made  up around 12% of Mr Ws pension portfolio which 
was more than twice the level of exposure the adjudicator considered was acceptable. 
S4 did not agree.  It said that it recommended UCIS  to Mr W on the basis  of him being a high 
net worth  investor.  It also suggested he had a fair amount of investment experience and so 
ultimately wouldve  been comfortable  in understanding the recommendations made to him. It 
argued, when  looking  at Mr Ws exposure to UCIS,  his overall portfolio including  his 
investments and property  held outside of his pension should be taken into account  and, on 
that basis, he wasnt over exposed to UCIS. 
The adjudicator was not persuaded  to change his opinion on the complaint. Taking into 
account that Mr W was not considered to be exempt  based on him being  a sophisticated 
investor, he felt the argument that Mr W was an experienced investor wasnt  compelling. 
Furthermore, given the tax advantages  and restricted access to pension  arrangements, 
these should be looked at in isolation when considering the exposure of a portfolio. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive mentioned  above, I issued a jurisdiction decision  in April 2019. I dealt with S4s 
argument that Mr Ws complaint focused  on the illiquidity of the Waste to Energy Fund, 
which S4 had said had been  made  clear  to him at the outset. I explained why I considered 
he was complaining about the overall suitability of the Fund. Thats  still my view.  Further, 
and as S4 accepts,  Mr W also complained that his risk profile hadnt been taken into 
account. Central to my decision is whether  the Waste to Energy Fund  matched Mr Ws 
attitude to risk. 
I dont disagree with what the adjudicator  said about UCIS generally.  These  schemes are 
usually high risk, trading  in unusual assets, with no proven record  and often  involve gearing  
or borrowing. They are not subject  to the same  restrictions  as regulated collective 
investment schemes  in terms of investment powers  and how they are run. UCIS  are 
generally characterised by a high degree  of illiquidity  or volatility or both. Some, such  as the 
Waste to Energy Fund, involve overseas  projects with returns  denominated in local currency. 
That brings about exchange  rate risks as well as other risk factors, such as changes  to local 
government policies, laws and regulations. In the event that a UCIS fails, investors  may not 
have full recourse  to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).  Often, as I think  
was the case  here, there is a minimum investment which means that losses can be high. 
Ref: DRN29300963There are restrictions  on the promotion of UCIS.  Ive looked at what the regulatory position 
was in 2011 when the Waste to Energy Fund was recommended to Mr W. 
Section 238 of the Financial Services and Markets  Act (FSMA)  prohibits  the promotion  of 
UCIS to retail clients unless a valid exemption  is relied on. S4 was clearly aware there were 
specific rules concerning the marketing of UCIS. There were two sets of exemptions that 
could be relied  on. The first relate  to certified high net worth or sophisticated investors. Other  
exemptions are set out in the Conduct of Business (COBS) rules   see COBS 4.12R. S4 
relies on Mr W being  a high net worth  investor  and so a person to whom  UCIS could be 
promoted without  breaching the section 238 restriction. 
Mr W signed a statement on 29 November 2011 saying he was a certified high net worth 
individual. Such  statements  are required to be in a prescribed form - see FSMA (Promotion  
of Collective Investment  Schemes (Exemptions) Order 2001  (as amended) (the PCIS 
Order). The statement  Mr W signed  was deficient. In particular, and importantly, it didnt say 
he understood that by signing it he may lose significant rights and he may have no right to 
complain to the regulator or this service  or to seek compensation from FSCS. 
But I dont think that of itself means the recommendation to invest  in the Waste to Energy  
Fund shouldnt have been made and Mr Ws complaint should be upheld on that basis.  
Despite the failure  to comply strictly with section 21 of the PCIS Order, from what Ive seen, 
Mr W was a high net worth individual and so someone to whom  UCIS could lawfully  be 
promoted. 
I think the real issue is whether the recommendation to invest  £25,000 of his SIPP fund in 
the Waste to Energy  Fund was suitable  for him. Mr Ws complaint centres on that Fund. But 
it was one of several funds recommended  for the money hed consolidated  in his new SIPP.  
I dont think it would  be right to view the Waste  to Energy Fund in isolation. I think it should 
be considered  as part of the portfolio that S4 recommended for Mr Ws SIPP.
Mr Ws attitude to risk was assessed  as balanced.  I havent seen anything to indicate  that 
wasnt an accurate assessment of his attitude to risk. And I think  he did have  some  capacity 
for loss. So I dont think a lower risk approach should have been suggested.  
S4 recommended  a spread of investments, with details (a narrative description  of each 
investment with specific risks highlighted  and fund charges set out) given in the suitability 
report dated 20 October 2011. That was with the exception of the Waste to Energy Fund 
which, as Ive said, was dealt with separately. 
S4 explained  that some  of the investments recommended might  have  a higher risk rating  
than Mr Ws overall  stated  attitude to risk but that the recommendations overall were aimed 
at meeting his overall stated tolerance  of balanced. I think  the Waste to Energy Fund  would 
have fallen into that higher risk rating category. 
The suitability report for the Waste  to Energy Fund gave some risk warnings. Mr W signed 
the report and the attached risk warning. The report said the Fund  was unregulated and 
suitable only for informed  and experienced  investors. And that prospective investors should 
be aware that investing in the Fund may expose  them to a significant risk of losing their 
entire investment. The risk of illiquidity was mentioned. But I think that was, to some extent 
at least, counterbalanced by the comment that, if the facility couldnt  be sold, it might 
continue to provide  an attractive income stream.  
Ref: DRN29300964Mr W was also given a copy of the prospectus. Although some risk factors  are set out, the 
document is lengthy (some 55 pages) and complex.  I think Mr W would have relied more on 
the summary  set out in the suitability report. 
A large  part of the report was devoted to positive developments  and how the project would 
benefit from several income  streams. The potential for significant early  returns  was 
highlighted together with the possible returns to capital, namely:
A return to equity of 211.9% would  be generated in this scenario (with circa 80% of capital 
being returned in the first 2 years);  this is equivalent  to an internal rate of return  (IRR)  of 34. 
0% pa.
On a purely speculative  assumption;  if the heat can be sold in line with the projections  in the 
IM then the return would  potentially  increase  to circa  234.3%  on the original  equity stake (or 
an IRR of circa 38.0%  pa.
Overall the report gave a positive view of the investment and its potential. That,  to a certain 
extent, is to be expected if a particular investment is being recommended. But Im not sure 
that the suitability report  gave a sufficiently balanced view of the investment and the risks.
But the real issue  is whether  the Fund matched Mr Ws balanced attitude to risk. 
The report  described  a balanced investor as looking for a balance  of risk and reward,  
seeking higher  returns  than those  available from a high street deposit account and willing to 
accept a certain amount of fluctuation in the value of investments as a result. They  would 
feel uncomfortable however if their investments  fell significantly in value  in the short  term.
I dont immediately see how an investment which could bring about a total loss of capital met 
that criteria. I think the Waste to Energy Fund represented more  risk than Mr W had 
indicated he was prepared to accept. As Ive said I think the Fund should be viewed in the 
context of the overall SIPP  portfolio  which S4 recommended. But the Waste  to Energy Fund 
wasnt balanced by other, lower risk investments so that the overall level of risk was 
commensurate with a balanced or medium risk portfolio.  I think, without the inclusion of the 
Waste to Energy Fund, the portfolio was on the high side in terms of risk for what  Id expect 
to see for a balanced  or medium risk investor.  The Waste to Energy Fund  raised the risk 
level further. 
Had the Waste to Energy  Fund been replaced by a balanced or medium risk investment then 
the portfolio overall would have better matched Mr Ws attitude  to risk. As things stood, the 
portfolio, with the inclusion  of the £25,000 investment in the Waste  to Energy Fund, 
represented more  risk than Mr W had indicated he was prepared  to take. On that basis  the 
recommendation to invest in that Fund was unsuitable for Mr W.  
The adjudicator pointed to the percentage of Mr Ws SIPP fund (12%) that was invested in 
UCIS. S4 has argued that the Waste to Energy Fund represented a much  smaller 
percentage of Mr Ws overall  assets. Ive taken into account Mr Ws overall financial position. 
Its relevant in terms of the level of risk he could afford to take and his capacity for loss. But 
S4 had been instructed  specifically in relation to Mr Ws SIPP  fund. And hed indicated he 
wanted to take a balanced approach to that. So it was up to S4 to recommend a portfolio for 
Mr Ws SIPP matched  that.
Ref: DRN29300965Theres no maximum permitted level of UCIS investment. The regulators 2010 UCIS good 
and poor practice  report gave, as an example of good practice, where a firm had set up a 
maximum portfolio proportion for UCIS  investments within  their customers  portfolio and 
monitored it on on-going basis. In that particular example that was between 3% and 5%, 
which the firm continued to monitor. 
In a speech given on 14 December 2010 the regulators then head of savings and 
investments said about UCIS that they are usually  regarded as speculative investments. 
This means  that in practice  they are rarely regarded as suitable for more  than a small share  
of an investors portfolio . Advisers were also reminded to reflect on whether they give a 
balanced view of UCIS in the material provided  to clients. As Ive said above  Im not sure 
S4s suitability report was sufficiently balanced. But, and regardless of that, I think  the 
regulators expectation, bearing in mind the nature of these type of investments and the 
multiple risk factors involved,  was that any UCIS investment would be limited. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that an investment of some 12% of the SIPP  fund in UCIS  is 
more than wed expect  to see for a balanced investor.
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. I dont think the recommendation to invest £25,000 in the 
Waste to Energy Fund was suitable for him.  
I dont disagree with the redress  the adjudicator set out. I think  there  is more  than one 
approach that might  be taken. But Im satisfied that what  the adjudicator suggested was fair 
and reasonable.  So Ive adopted the redress the adjudicator suggested.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr W as close  as possible in 
the position hed probably now be in if hed been  given  suitable advice. I think hed have 
invested differently.  It is not possible to say precisely  what  hed have done instead but Im 
satisfied that what  Ive set out below is fair and reasonable  given  Mr Ws circumstances and 
objectives when  he invested.
To compensate Mr W fairly S4 should:
Compare the performance of Mr Ws investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, theres a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
If theres a loss, pay into Mr Ws pension plan, to increase its value by the amount  of 
the compensation and any interest. The payment  should allow  for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt  be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the compensation cant be paid into Mr Ws pension plan it should be paid direct  to 
him. But had it been  possible to pay it into the plan, it would have provided a taxable  
income. Therefore  the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. The notional  allowance should  be 
calculated using  Mr Ws actual or expected  marginal rate of tax at his selected 
retirement age. For example, if hes likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal  the current basic rate of tax. If hed have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Ref: DRN29300966Pay Mr W £200 for the disruption caused  to his retirement planning.
Pay any interest  thats due. Income tax may be payable  on any interest  paid. If S4 
considers it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should  tell Mr W how much it has taken off and give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs 
if appropriate.
Provide details of its calculations to Mr W in a clear and simple format.
investment name
status Benchmark from (start 
date)to (end date) additional interest
Merchant Place Waste  
to Energy 
Fund still existsFTSE UK
Private Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of 
calculation8% pa from the 
date of my final 
decision on any 
compensation not paid within 
28 days of 
notification of 
Ms Hs 
acceptance of 
my final 
decision. 
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
If, at the end date,  the investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the investment. 
So, the actual  value should  be assumed to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. S4 should 
take ownership of the illiquid  investment by paying  a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance  
paid as above.
If S4 is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil
for the purpose  of calculation. 
S4 may wish to require  that Mr W provides an undertaking  to pay S4 any amount he may 
receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. S4 will need  to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a
return using the benchmark. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other 
distribution out of the investment should  be deducted from the fair value at the point  it was 
actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation  from that point on. If there 
Ref: DRN29300967are a large  number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if S4 totals 
all those payments and deducts  that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr W wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017,
the FTSE WMA  Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of
indices with different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government  bonds. Its
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher
return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison
given Mr Ws circumstances and risk attitude.
ongoing SIPP fees
Mr W may wish to move his pension fund to a different arrangement.  But if, in order  for the 
SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees prevented,  the Waste to Energy Fund needs to be 
removed and S4 cant buy it, S4 should pay an amount equal  to five years  of SIPP  fees 
based on the current tariff to Mr W. This is in addition to the compensation set out above.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. S4 Financial  Ltd must redress Mr W as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
 
 
Ref: DRN2930096