K820x#14The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about charges applied by Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited 
(VWFS) at the end of his hire purchase agreement which he was pursued for after receiving 
a letter  saying there was nothing further owing. 
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties so I wont  repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr M entered into a hire purchase  agreement  with VWFS to acquire a car. In doing  
so he agreed to be bound by its terms and conditions. The terms included 
requirements in regard to the maintenance of the car and also included  a total 
mileage allowance. 
Mr M decided to return  the car. The final payment was then taken when it shouldnt 
have been. I appreciate  the upset this must  have caused but this doesnt form part of 
this complaint. 
This complaint is in regard to the end of agreement charges. Mr Ms agreement had 
a total mileage allowance of 61,250 miles. When the car was returned  the mileage 
was around 83,000  miles. The excess mileage was calculated based on the terms 
set out in the agreement and I find that this charge was fairly applied. A charge that 
had been added for a missing parcel shelf was removed.
In a letter responding to VWFS  final response about the final payment issue, Mr M 
asked for a number  of actions  to be taken. These actions included removing the end 
of agreement charges. While I understand why Mr M was upset not to get a response 
to his request,  I do not find that this meant  VWFS had agreed to the charges being  
removed. 
In July 2018, Mr M received a letter saying that there are no monies  owing or due 
back, your closing balance is £0.00  and we hold no further  interest in your car. Mr M 
said this letter meant that he was no longer liable for the excess mileage charge. I 
can understand the points Mr M has raised. My role is to consider what  is fair and 
reasonable, in light of relevant regulations. In this case, Mr M exceeded the total 
mileage allowance  and received  an invoice  for this. The agreement says the liability 
must be discharged  on demand. Therefore I find it reasonable that he knew he was 
liable for this payment at that time.
A number of months later,  Mr M received a letter which he understood to mean the 
excess mileage charge was no longer owing. However I accept that the statement 
made was referring to Mr Ms payment liabilities  under  his agreement.  I appreciate 
that this wasnt clear,  but I do not find that by issuing this letter,  Mr M was no longer 
liable for the contractual  charges  for excess mileage that he had previously been 
informed of.
Ref: DRN24514332While  I understand why Mr M is upset by the issues  he has experienced, I do not find 
that VWFS has acted unfairly  by applying the excess  mileage charge or pursuing 
Mr M for this.  
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020.
Jane Archer 
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2451433