K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc wouldnt send him proof of his savings as hed 
requested. He says this led to a delay in his mortgage application and potentially losing his 
mortgage offer.
background
Mr T holds  three savings account with Santander.  On 17 April 2019,  Mr T asked Santander 
to send him statements for all three accounts. But Santander only sent the statements for 
one account. It sent all of the statements when Mr T complained on 30 April. 
Mr T says that he needed the proof  of savings to support his mortgage  application.  He says 
he was told that his mortgage offer might  expire  if he didnt provide this information. Mr T 
says the delay in receiving  the statements has caused him a significant  amount of distress 
and inconvenience.  He also points out that Santander provided poor service  when it dealt 
with his complaint.
My provisional findings form part of this decision. They  were:
Its clear that Santander made a mistake  here.  It should have dealt with Mr Ts request the 
first time he phoned in. I accept that Mr T needed  statements from Santander and that some 
lenders may not accept online statements. I also understand that the estate agent needed 
this information  to show that he was serious about the house he wanted to buy.
The fact that Santander has made a mistake doesnt  entitle  Mr T to compensation. I can only 
make an award in certain circumstances,  including if the mistake has caused financial loss 
or distress and/or inconvenience. 
Mr T is not claiming any financial loss. His point  is that he was a first-time buyer  and the 
mistake and subsequent delay  in getting the statements caused him a lot of stress and 
inconvenience.
After listening to what Mr T has said, its clear that he found  the house  buying process 
stressful. But its also clear that Santanders  mistake added to the stress he experienced. Its 
also likely he was chased by his mortgage broker and estate agent for the information  from 
Santander. And I have  to take into account that he has experienced the trouble of dealing  
with that and sorting this out. That wouldnt have been necessary had Santander  acted 
correctly in the first place.  
I accept it was a relatively minor mistake by Santander, it was resolved quite quickly  and it 
didnt cause Mr Ts house purchase  or mortgage to fall through. But I think  it did cause Mr T 
some stress and inconvenience  as set out above.  In the circumstances  of tis case  I think it 
would be fair for Santander to pay Mr T £75.
I note that complaint handling isnt an activity  that I can look at. So I cant consider the points 
Mr T has made  about the way that Santander  handled his complaint.
I invited both sides to make any further submission before I made my final decision.
Santander accepted my provisional findings.  Mr T didnt respond. 
Ref: DRN20788432my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision.
Its not in dispute  that Santander mistakenly  didnt send all of the statements Mr T had asked 
for. In view of his position as a first-time  buyer  and what  he has told us about  how the delay 
affected him, I consider that Santander should  pay him £75 to reflect any trouble and upset.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should  pay Mr T £75.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2078843