K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt covered the full cost of his 
legal expenses claim under his Commercial Legal  Expenses policy.
For the sake of ease when I refer to UKI I mean both the underwriter  itself and any agents 
working on its behalf.
background
Mr B purchased an insurance policy from Direct  Line insurance (underwritten by UKI) in 
2014. As part of that policy Mr B opted  to pay an extra premium for commercial legal 
expenses cover. 
In 2017 Mr B, who is a landlord, had reason to evict tenants from a property he owned.  He 
contacted solicitors and started eviction proceedings.  These eventually  ended with Mr B 
bringing his case  to court and having the tenants successfully removed from the property. 
Mr B contacted UKI in September 2017  and informed it that he was in the process of having  
the tenants removed and had instructed solicitors to act on his behalf. The representative he 
spoke to explained that legal expenses claims were handled by an agent who had legal 
expertise. Mr B was instructed to contact them to proceed with his claim.  He did this and was 
asked to send  in additional  information  so the claim could  be considered. 
Mr B didnt provide  this information in 2017 and didnt contact the agents  again until 
September 2018, one year later. By this time he had completed the eviction  process and had 
had a favourable  ruling from the courts. He provided  the agents with the invoices  he had 
received from his solicitors, which were  for a total of £4,000 and asked to make a claim for 
those costs. 
UKIs agents responded by explaining  Mr B was excluded from making a claim under his 
legal expenses insurance policy as he had instructed private solicitors and incurred legal 
expenses without the consent  of UKI. It quoted the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy  and 
said under  the Making a Claim heading it clearly stated:
Please do not ask for help from a lawyer, accountant or anyone  else before [agents  
name] have agreed  that you should  do so. If you do, we will not pay the costs involved even 
if [agents name] accept  the claim.
In addition to this it also pointed out that under the General Exclusions it says:
We will not pay any claim relating to the following:
2 Costs [agents name] have not agreed
Costs and Expenses incurred before written acceptance of a claim
However as a gesture of goodwill, and on the basis that it was likely UKI would have 
accepted Mr Bs claim had he followed the correct process, it agreed to pay him £1,700. UKI 
has explained that, having reviewed  Mr Bs invoices and the fees,  this amount is 
representative of what it wouldve  cost its agents  to handle Mr Bs claim if they had been  
given the opportunity to do so. 
Ref: DRN28943522Mr B responded by saying at no point in 2014,  or since, was he given a copy  of the terms 
and conditions of his policy. He says that when he was sold the policy over the phone he 
wasnt told that legal expenses claims were handled by an agent separately  from UKI or that 
he had to contact  them before instructing a solicitor to act on his behalf. He has said if he 
had known he was required  to do this he would have. He believes the policy is defined as a 
legal expenses policy and so UKI should cover the full cost of his legal expenses and pay 
the remaining  £2,300.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Bs complaint already. She found that UKI were  
entitled to exclude the claim  under the terms and conditions as Mr B should have contacted 
their agent  before starting  any legal proceedings or engaging with a solicitor. She felt the 
offer UKI had made to cover some of the costs was reasonable and she didnt  uphold  the 
complaint. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review  his 
complaint and so the case has been  passed  to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has said he never received a copy of the terms and conditions of his insurance policy 
when he took it out in 2014. Im not surprised he has no memory  of this, it happened  over 
five years ago and Mr B has indicated  he wouldnt  necessarily have read everything that 
came through with the schedule of insurance anyway.
Mr B is adamant that he was never explicitly told that he needed to contact UKI before 
engaging with any solicitors or seeking legal advice  on something he may need to claim for. 
Indeed he says he had no understanding that UKI would not deal with his complaint directly  
and would instead pass it to an agent  to consider instead. 
As such he believes the policy was mis-sold to him and says had he been  given  clear  
information on what he needed to do he wouldve contacted the insurer  sooner. He doesnt  
believe its his fault that he wasnt aware  of what was in the terms and conditions and feels 
UKI are relying on them as an excuse not to pay a legitimate claim. 
UKI has provided us with evidence to show that the full terms and conditions were sent to 
Mr B. And it has also shown us the letter he received each year when the policy  was 
renewed, that indicated all the relevant terms and conditions  were available  on its website 
and should be checked. 
Even if Mr B didnt receive  a copy of the terms and conditions when the policy started,  each 
letter of renewal he received annually since then,  has instructed him to review  the terms and 
conditions of his policy. So in this case I feel UKI has done enough in regards to altering    
Mr B that there were conditions attached to his policy and that it was important he read them 
to ensure the policy was fit for purpose  and he understood how it worked.  
Mr B has indicated  both frustration and suspicion that UKI have been unable  to provide him 
with a copy of the call recording from when the policy was first sold to him. Given the amount 
of time that has passed its not strange that UKI no longer  have a copy  of the recording 
available. They are not obliged to keep  call recordings for that long. 
Ref: DRN28943523Mr B has said he wasnt told during the call that legal expenses claims would be handled by 
a third party agent on behalf  of UKI or that he needed to contact them before engaging with 
a solicitor. I believe Mr B when he says this and it seems quite likely that the sales  person he 
spoke to didnt  go into that level of detail  during  the call. However there  is no obligation on 
businesses to go into the specifics of how to claim under  each individual aspect of the policy. 
Instead it must provide the person  buying  the policy with the terms and conditions so they 
fully understand  what they need to do to make a successful claim. 
As Ive said,  Im satisfied  UKI did provide Mr B with the policy documents.  The policy terms 
are clear  that the policyholder shouldnt  take legal action or incur legal costs until the claim 
has been considered and UKI has accepted the claim. And costs  incurred  before  then are 
not covered. 
In the case of legal expenses  insurance  it is not unusual  for the agents of underwriters to 
first test whether or not the case has a 51% chance  of success before agreeing to take it on. 
If they do decide to take it on, it will then likely appoint  a solicitor of its own choosing,  or at 
least enter discussions with the consumers solicitors in order to agree on a limit to rates the 
solicitor charges. By not contacting the insurance company prior to hiring  solicitors  or taking 
the dispute to court  Mr B prevented UKI from being able to limit its costs in this way. UKI was 
prevented from doing any of this. But it has accepted that, if it had been  able to consider the 
claim its likely it would have been accepted.  So it agreed to pay a sum that represents the 
costs that would have been incurred. In the circumstances I think thats  fair.
Overall I dont think UKI have acted  unreasonably in how it has handled Mr Bs claim. It 
made a contribution towards his legal  costs even though it was not obliged to do so under 
the terms of his policy. It also indicated the importance of reading  the policy terms and 
conditions to Mr B in the letters  it sent to him and included links to its website to show  him 
where he could  find them. For those reasons I wont be asking UKI to do anymore for Mr B in 
this instance.   
Mr B has argued that no other form of insurance requires a consumer to contact  the 
underwriter before making a claim to explain a claim  might be forthcoming. He has used the 
example of repairing a conservatory roof. He has said in this instance he could arrange for 
the repairs and then merely forward the bill to the underwriter  to make a claim for the cost of 
the work  carried out. However this is not always the case. In some  instances underwriters 
will send surveyors  to inspect the damage, insist that the work  is carried  out by a firm of its 
choice and may even  restrict which materials can be used in the repair.  It is because  the 
underwriter wants to ensure it mitigates  its cost as much  as possible
Ref: DRN28943524my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2894352