K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Miss Y says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ys case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Barclays had to make  it clear to Miss Y that she had a choice about it. 
But Miss Y says she made it clear she didnt want the PPI and that it wasnt  made  clear  that 
the PPI had been added.
Miss Y has said that the credit card and the PPI were taken out over the phone, and 
Barclays has agreed with this. Barclays has sent us copies of the scripts it says its advisors  
wouldve followed during  telephone sales at the time. And these scripts show that the 
advisor wouldve  been instructed to highlight that the PPI was optional  and ask the customer  
whether they would like to apply for it.
Barclays has also sent us a copy of Miss Ys credit  card agreement.  This included  a section 
on PPI, which says that Miss Y wants to take it out. And Miss Y has signed the agreement.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that the phone call with Miss Y largely  
followed the scripts Ive seen. So I think Barclays made  it clear  to her that she had a choice 
about the PPI, and that she chose to take it. I also think  Barclays  made it clear the PPI had 
been added  to Miss Ys account.
I understand that Miss Y feels strongly that she wouldnt have taken the PPI unless she was 
told she wouldnt get the credit card without it. But I dont think  theres enough  evidence  here 
for me to say that Barclays  told her this, or that it unfairly pressured her into the PPI.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Miss Y, so it had to check  that it was right for her. And, 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, 
she doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. The policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than shes told us she wouldve 
been entitled to sick pay. And shes told us she didnt have any savings  or other  means she 
couldve used to make  her repayments if she wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for her, Barclays had to give Miss Y clear information about  
the PPI. Its possible the information it gave her wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But, for 
the same  reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like it would  have been  useful  for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Miss Y off taking it out.
Ref: DRN23597052my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2359705