K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about what happened  when he asked Barclays  Bank  UK PLC to carry out a 
chargeback.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, a copy  of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  I also explained why I proposed not to uphold 
the complaint.
I invited Mr K and Barclays to let me have any final comments  and evidence  before making 
my final decision. Barclays accepted  my provisional decision, but Mr K did not. In summary, 
Mr K said:
Barclays had lied to him by saying that they had referred his chargeback claim to the 
card scheme operator;
there are two receipts,  one of which was forged  by the dealer  and the other is for 
commercial vehicles  only;
the advertising website, the card scheme  operator and two other agencies have 
agreed that he has been a victim of fraud;
the dealer  had pretended  to be part of an online auction website and had forced him 
into the buying the car;
he was a long way from home and took the car to get away  from the dealer;
the dealer  provided false reports to Barclays; and
he had no contact  with the dealer named on his statement, so didnt recognise  the 
transaction.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, whilst I realise this isnt 
the answer Mr K was hoping for  Ive reached the same overall conclusions as I did in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons.
the two receipts  provided by Mr K
Mr K says the signature on one of the receipts  he has sent to us, has been  forged. I have 
seen examples of Mr Ks signature,  to be able to compare  them  to the one he says has been 
forged. But, I dont think comparisons of the signature alone,  can lead me to draw a 
conclusion on if Mr K agreed to the sale.
I have considered what Mr K and Barclays have said about the build up to the sale, the 
authorisation of the card payment and Mr Ks emails to the dealer afterwards. I think Mr K 
showed his intentions to buy a car and that he authorised the card payment. Also, I think  his 
Ref: DRN29637172concerns afterwards, were more  about the cars  performance,  than anything  being wrong 
during the sales  process. Taking everything into consideration, I still think its likely Mr K 
agreed to the sale with the dealer. So, I think Mr K signed some sort of paperwork, most 
likely, the receipt he has sent us a copy of.
Mr K argues  that one of the receipts  says Commercial vehicles only and has indicated that 
this shows the dealer  is dishonest. I have  looked  at the receipt  and I agree there is a section 
which says Commercial vehicles only. But, I think this is a generic  receipt  and the part Mr K 
refers to, is only relevant  if the vehicle being sold, is for commercial use. In Mr Ks instance 
the car wasnt for commercial use, so this part of the receipt could be disregarded. I dont 
think this shows the dealer  to be untrustworthy,  or that Barclays  should have upheld his 
chargeback claim because of it.
the involvement of card scheme operator  and other agencies
Mr K says that other  parties  (the website advertising the car, the card scheme operator and 
two nationwide  advice agencies)  have  told him Barclays should  be doing more  to help and 
that he has been a victim of fraud.
I have considered the correspondence he has provided, and I can see all the agencies hes 
contacted, have tried to give him help and advice. And I can see that Mr K has been  told to 
take his concerns back to Barclays.
Whilst I agree each party has repeated Mr Ks version of events back to him, I dont think  
any further investigation has been done by them. The emails between the other agencies 
and Mr K, talk about him referring his concerns back to Barclays.  So, I think Mr K was told to 
speak directly to Barclays to see if they would take any further action  over his chargeback 
claim.
Mr K also says that Barclays gave him incorrect information when they told him they had 
passed their investigation to the card scheme  operator. I have concluded  that Barclays  used 
the card scheme  operators rules to decide if they can take the chargeback  claim further.
I dont think Barclays gave Mr K the impression  the chargeback claim was continuing with 
the card scheme  operator. Instead,  I think  Barclays explained what theyd  looked  at with the 
card scheme operators rules, in reaching their decision. So, I think Barclays  handled Mr Ks 
enquiry fairly, by telling  him what  theyd taken into consideration to reach their decision. I 
dont think Barclays gave  Mr K the impression another body had taken up his claim.
the dealers behaviour 
Ive concluded  that its likely, Mr K agreed to buy the car from the dealer. Mr K says that the 
dealer wouldnt  let him leave their sales office, until he had purchased the car. From  what  
Mr K has said, it does  give the impression that the dealer  used some  unusual practices to 
secure a sale. But, I have to consider the evidence available and weigh that up against what 
each side to the complaint tells us.
Having done so, I think it was Mr Ks intentions to buy a car and that he was satisfied  with 
the agreement  the dealer had proposed, because he authorised the card payment. I think 
Ref: DRN29637173Mr Ks emails  to the dealer afterwards,  show it was the performance of the car, rather than 
the sales tactics used, which he was unhappy  about. 
Mr K says the dealer acted as if they operated on an action  website only, but this was 
untrue, and it was just a way of brining  people to their sales office. I agree that the dealer 
may use auction websites  to advertise  their cars.  But, once at the sales  office, I think  its 
between the dealer and the customer to decide how the sale is completed.  I dont think 
because the dealer chose  to offer the car to Mr K differently, and where Mr K accepted  that 
deal, it means Barclays should  uphold Mr Ks chargeback claim.
I have taken all what Mr K has said into consideration and I understand that hes still very 
upset about what  happened. But, I think Barclays have  reached a fair outcome with the 
chargeback, even after looking at the dealers behaviour.
I do recognise that Mr K is very dissatisfied  with the car he bought  and is unhappy with how 
the dealer treated him. Although I know he still may be very unhappy  with the outcome  of 
Barclays handling of his chargeback claim,  I hope that he will be able to move on from what 
has happened.
But, in all the circumstances,  I dont think Barclays have treated  him unfairly  when they 
investigated his chargeback claim.
my final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2020.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29637174copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr K complains about what happened when he asked Barclays Bank UK PLC to carry out a 
chargeback.
background
In May 2017,  Mr F says he saw a car advertised online and arranged  a visit with the dealer, to have a 
look at it. He says he wanted to buy a new car, to help with his caring  responsibilities for a relative.  
During the visit, Mr K agreed to part exchange the car he owned at the time,  and says he was 
encouraged to take the car he wanted to buy, for a test drive.  But, whilst on the test drive, he says he 
was asked  to stop at a branch of his bank, to withdraw cash,  to pay for most  of the cost of the car. Mr 
K also says the dealer forced him to make a debit card payment, for the remainder of the balance.
Three weeks later, Mr K wrote to Barclays and asked them to start a chargeback for his debit card 
payment to the dealer.  He told Barclays that the car was faulty, and that the dealer had refused to 
give him a refund. He also said that the payment showing on his statement,  was made to an unknown  
third party, instead of the individual he spoke to. Barclays asked for some further information  from Mr 
C and began the chargeback process. 
About a month after the process began, Barclays were told the dealer had defended  the chargeback. 
The dealer explained that Mr K knew the payment was made to a business instead of an individual 
and provided a sales invoice signed by Mr K. After  some  further  talks, the dealer also said he had 
asked Mr K to return  the car for an inspection, but Mr K had refused. The dealer explained that the car 
had passed an MOT  test shortly before the sale and that the thirty  day guarantee had expired.
Barclays wrote  to Mr K at the end of 2017 to say the chargeback had been defended and they 
wouldnt be taking things further. They said Mr K still had the car and there was no evidence to show 
the car had a fault. Mr K didnt  accept  this and brought his complaint to us. He says the dealer had 
acted fraudulently and was unhappy that Barclays hadnt looked into his concerns  about the payment 
going to a third party. Mr K also said that his signature had been forged on the sales invoice.
Whilst Mr Ks case was waiting to be reviewed by us, Barclays wrote to him about his concerns  about  
fraud. They said Mr K had agreed to the purchase and he had entered  his Personal  Identification 
Number (PIN)  at the time of the payment. So, they didnt think the payment was taken fraudulently. 
They also said that Mr K should contact the Police  if he felt the dealer coerced him into making the 
payment. But, Barclays did accept that they should have dealt with Mr Ks concerns  about  fraud 
sooner, and paid £150 into his account for the delay.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint  and found that Barclays had treated Mr K fairly. 
He said Barclays followed good practice by attempting a chargeback and hadnt  made any errors in 
doing so. Mr K disagreed  and said Barclays should provide a refund as his signature was forged on 
the sales  invoice.  
A different investigator considered Mr Ks case. He thought Mr K had always wanted to purchase the 
car, despite what Mr K had said about his signature. He also didnt think  Barclays had made  a 
mistake when the cash was withdrawn or in their decision  about  the chargeback.
Mr K didnt accept this and said he was intimidated  when he bought the car and Barclays should 
refund the debit card payment as a gesture of goodwill. He also said the dealer should  have honoured  
the thirty day guarantee. The investigator didnt  change his conclusions and Mr K asked for his case 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
So, Mr Ks case was passed  to me to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN29637175my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to reach  the same  outcome as the 
investigator, but for slightly different reasons.  I think  Barclays have treated Mr K fairly. Ill explain why.
the chargeback  
I know that Mr K is very upset about  how the dealer treated him. I have to look at Barclays actions 
and whether they were  unfair  or unreasonable. Mr K may want us to decide if the dealer did 
something wrong. But, Barclays role here was to process a chargeback correctly.
A chargeback  is a system managed by the card scheme operator, whose symbol  is on Mr Ks card. 
Its less formal than a court  case,  and only some  complaints will fall within  the rules  set by the card 
scheme operator. So, Barclays dont set the chargeback  rules,  and its the card scheme operator  who 
decides who wins or loses an arbitration. 
In the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint, I have looked at the rules  for the relevant scheme, related  
to Mr Ks debit  card.  Barclays started the chargeback process in June 2017. The next stage was to 
ask the dealer if they wanted  to defend the claim. Here,  I think the dealer clearly wanted to defend the 
chargeback claim,  and they sent details to Barclays of the sale of the car and of the contact  theyd 
had with Mr K. 
I can see from Barclays contact  notes  that the dealer provided their side of the dispute within  the 
period set out in the card scheme  operators rules. I can also see that Barclays raised the chargeback 
using the correct code, listed in the rules,  for the type of dispute Mr K had. Having considered 
everything, I think Barclays initial handling of the chargeback was in line with timescales and 
guidance, set out in the rules. So, I think they treated Mr K fairly here.
Barclays asked Mr K for further information, and he provided more  about  his side of the story. It was 
then for Barclays to decide whether to ask the card scheme operator to arbitrate,  or not. A bank is not 
always expected to do this. Theres a cost to banks, to make chargeback arbitration  requests. And 
that cost isnt passed  on to customers. So, I wouldnt necessarily expect Barclays  to incur that cost, if 
it was very unlikely  that this chargeback request would  succeed. 
In the final response about the chargeback, Barclays explained that the car wasnt returned to the 
dealer and that there was no evidence  showing that it was faulty. Barclays didnt make a chargeback  
arbitration request. From the notes Ive seen,  they made this decision because  they didnt think  the 
request would  succeed.
I need to assess whether this was a reasonable response for Barclays to make.  In looking at this, Im 
aware Mr K says the car didnt perform to the miles  per gallon figure it was advertised with. But I also 
need to bear in mind  that Mr K didnt send Barclays a report from another garage to support and verify 
what he has said. And I have to consider that Mr K didnt allow the dealers mechanic  to look at the 
car, when he was given the opportunity to do so.
I also have to consider that Mr Ks statements  dont seem to be entirely  consistent. For example, his 
initial emails  to the dealer  suggest he was only unhappy with the performance of the car and he 
acknowledges he agreed to the sale. In his later contact with Barclays,  he says he didnt  recognise 
where the payment went and felt threatened  when he paid for the car. None of this means that Mr Ks 
claim isnt genuine, or that the dealer  should have handled the sale better.  But, I have to think about 
what its reasonable  for Barclays  to do in this case. The lack of evidence about  the fault and because  
the car remains with Mr K, means that I think his case was unlikely to succeed at the next stage of 
arbitration. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think this chargeback claim was likely to succeed.  It also follows that I 
think Barclays  treated Mr K fairly, even when they decided not to ask the card scheme  operator to 
Ref: DRN29637176arbitrate. I dont think Barclays  has to reopen Mr Ks case, or attempt this chargeback  again now. It 
remains open  to Mr K to consider other means of redress against the dealer,  including through  the 
courts. Unfortunately, our service isnt able to assist with that. 
Mr K concerns about fraudulent activities
Once Barclays had given Mr K their thoughts about the chargeback, he told them that he didnt 
recognise the beneficiary on his statement.  He also said his signature had been forged  on the sales 
invoice and he felt threatened into handing over cash and making  a payment to the dealer. Mr K 
raised his concerns about fraud to Barclays, in light of this information.
In response, Barclays said that Mr K had authorised  the transaction, by using his PIN with the card.  
Ive considered what Mr K says about being forced into the card payment and I do not doubt  what  he 
has told us. But, I have to think about the circumstances  leading up to the sale,  what  happened when 
he authorised  the payment  to the dealer and what happened afterwards.
Ive considered what Mr K says and the initial emails  he sent to the dealer.  Ive also considered that 
Mr K was planning to buy a new car, that would  help with his caring responsibilities of a relative.
Mr K made enquiries with the dealer before  visiting  them, to look at the car. Ive seen emails between  
Mr K and the dealer,  to show hed identified the car from an advert and that he wanted to see it. This 
doesnt mean  Mr K was obliged to buy the car. But, on balance, I think it means it was Mr Ks intention  
to buy a vehicle around the time his enquiry. 
The emails Mr K sent to the dealer after the sale are about the cars performance,  rather  than any 
unhappiness with the payment. And Mr K used his card and PIN at the time. I accept that its likely  the 
transaction took place in a branch of Mr Ks bank,  as this isnt denied  by the dealer. But, I have to 
consider that Mr K wanted to buy a car, that he authorised the transaction and that his concerns  
afterwards werent  about the way the payment was taken. 
Had Mr K been concerned  about pressure  put on him by the dealer to make the card payment, I think  
its likely,  he would have  alerted the Police  or Barclays soon after it happened. I have looked  at the 
contact records of Barclays and these  concerns  werent raised until after the dealer had asked for his 
mechanic to see the car. In all the circumstances, I think Mr K was satisfied when he made the 
payment for the car and became unhappy, after he had driven it.
Ive also looked at Mr Ks bank statements  and I can see he rarely makes payments of a similar size, 
to the one he made  to the dealer. I understand Mr Ks concern at seeing a different beneficiary to 
what he was expecting. But, I think it would have been reasonable for him to know that the payment 
he was unsure of, was the payment he made for the remainder of the cost of the car.
Mr K says his signature has been  forged  on the sales invoice. Ive said that I think  Mr K wanted to buy 
a car and that he authorised  the payment. So, on balance, I think it is likely Mr K signed  some sort of 
agreement with the dealer.  Mr K part exchanged his previous car with the same dealer, to help pay for 
some of the cost of the car. Im persuaded he agreed to that part exchange. So, whilst  I acknowledge 
what Mr K has said about the signature  on the sales invoice, in all the circumstances, I think  Mr K 
agreed to the sale.
Barclays payment of £150  to Mr K
Mr K told Barclays of his concerns about being a victim of fraud in August 2017.  Barclays gave Mr K 
their final response  to this part of his complaint, some nine months later in May 2018.  I can see from 
Barclays records of contact  with Mr K that they discussed the signature on the sales invoice and the 
authorisation of the debit  card payment, before the final response was sent.  So, I think  Mr K had an 
idea of Barclays thoughts about fraud and how he paid for the car.
Ref: DRN29637177To recognise how long it took to give Mr K the results of their investigation into fraud, Barclays paid 
Mr K £150 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.  I sympathise with Mr K, as he says hes been 
unable to buy another  car in the meantime.  But, I think he was aware  that Barclays were  unlikely to 
change their stance on either the chargeback or their findings on how he paid for the car. In all the 
circumstances, I think the payment of £150 was fair and I dont think  Barclays need to increase  it.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments or evidence I receive from Mr K 
or Barclays by 15 July 2020 my provisional decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC have treated Mr K 
fairly.
So, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Ref: DRN2963717