K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has mis-sold her an income  protection policy.
background
In March 2002 Ms P attended a HSBC branch and took out an income protection policy.  
Then, in December 2003 Ms P applied for a new policy to replace her existing cover.
Ms P has since raised a number of concerns about  these  policies  to both our service and 
HSBC. Ive summarised these concerns below:
Ms P couldnt recall  taking either  policy out;
Ms P was pressured by HSBCs  advisors to take out the policies;
the policies would never have been  useful to Ms P;
the policies were  too expensive;
HSBC  hasnt retained full records and documentation of both sales;
Ms P was unemployed at the time of the second application; and
Ms P never  requested or wanted either policy.
Ms P raised her concerns with HSBC initially and asked for a refund of her premiums.
HSBC said it met with Ms P in 2002 to carry out a full financial review. It said at the time 
Ms P was self-employed,  may have received sick pay but had no other  policy in place. 
Following a discussion it recommended an accident  and sickness income protection policy 
with a deferred period of 26 weeks. It said Ms P agreed to the policy but opted to take a 
lower monthly benefit than it recommended  to lower the cost of the premium.
In December 2003 Ms P applied for a new income  protection policy that replaced  her 
existing one. HSBC  said within  this application  she said she was working 50 hours  a week. It 
said this policy increased the monthly benefit  shed  receive and reduced the deferred period 
to eight weeks. HSBC  said reviewing the two sales it felt it had sold Ms P policies that she 
couldve found useful  and that were  suitable  for her needs.
Ms P brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators  looked into what  
happened. For the initial 2002 sale he said hed read Ms Ps application form and the fact 
find document completed by HSBCs advisor  with Ms P. Having done so he said it was most 
likely HSBC had explained the key features and benefits of the policy, and that the insurance 
was suitable for her overall. He also thought the optional  nature of the cover was clear.  So 
he didnt think the policy was mis-sold.
The investigator then considered the sale of the 2003 policy.  Again he found no evidence 
that Ms P was forced into taking the policy. And he said the optional nature of the policy was 
clear from both the application form and given it was a standalone product and not attached 
to any credit.  He also said he felt the policy couldve been useful for her should she needed 
to claim and didnt think  the terms were  onerous.
Ms P accepted the investigators opinion on the 2002 policy. But still felt the 2003 policy  was 
mis-sold and said it wouldnt have covered her should she needed  to claim. Ms P also said 
shed been rejected for a mortgage around  this time which  showed  the policy was too 
expensive. Because  Ms P disagreed, the complaint  has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN20627612my findings
As Ms P has accepted  the investigators  findings  on the earlier  policy, I have only discussed  
the policy sold in 2003 within my decision. Ive considered all the available evidence  and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Through her own admission, Ms P has said she cannot recall the sale of this policy. But 
Ms P has also indicated her policy was forced  upon  her, and that it wasnt  clear  the policy 
was optional. This policy was sold some  time ago, and I can appreciate that over time 
memories will fade. But it seems to me the arguments Ms P has put to our service  and 
HSBC are conflicting by their nature.
When considering  what was most likely  to have happened Ive considered the available  
evidence from the time.  Ms P took out her second  income protection policy  through  an 
application it seems  she filled in with an advisor. The form indicates the new policy was most 
likely taken out due to a change in circumstances. So Im satisfied she took this out willingly, 
knowing she had a choice  whether  or not to take it. And Ive seen nothing to suggest Ms P 
was pressured  into taking the policy, particularly  given Ms P previously said she couldnt 
recall the sale herself when complaining  to HSBC in June 2018.
HSBC recommended the policy to Ms P which means it had to check the policy was suitable 
for her needs. The application form she signed says she had no other sick pay or cover in 
place, so it seems to have  been right for her based on what  Ive seen  of her circumstances 
at the time. The sales documentation also confirms that she was working and, although she 
didnt have dependents or a mortgage, she didnt have a way to support herself  financially if 
she couldnt work because she was ill.
Ms P said the terms for claiming on the policy were onerous as they require  a policyholder  to 
be unable to perform the material  and substantial duties of their occupation. These terms 
do not appear onerous or unusual compared  to other policies on the market. So this doesnt 
change my mind.
Ms P said her mortgage application being declined around this time indicated  the cost of the 
policy was too high. But I disagree  that being  declined for credit on its own would suggest 
this policy  wasnt suitable. So even if she could evidence this, it wouldnt change  my mind. 
And overall  Im satisfied HSBC didnt mis-sale Ms P an income protection policy.
Ref: DRN20627613my final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2062761