K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc converted his money into a foreign currency  at a 
disadvantageous rate before transferring  it to his bank account  overseas.
background
Mr H has an account with HSBC UK Bank Plc. Using his on-line  banking  facility, he 
requested a transfer of a substantial amount of money to his account in another country.
After the transfer  had been carried out, Mr H says he realised HSBC had converted his 
money from GB pounds  to the foreign currency before the transfer.
He says the rate of exchange HSBC used was significantly less advantageous to him than 
the rate offered  by the bank overseas  or the rate offered  by other  providers. And he says 
he requested the transfer to be made in GB pounds.
Mr H complained to HSBC. He wanted  them to refund the difference  between the amount of 
money actually transferred into his overseas bank account and the amount he would have 
had if the transfer  had taken place in GB pounds and the overseas bank had carried out the 
currency conversion.
HSBC didnt uphold  Mr Hs complaint. They explained their exchange rate was made clear  to 
him when  he made the transfer. And they said hed confirmed  his request to transfer the 
money in the foreign currency after hed been made  aware of that rate.
Mr H wasnt happy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought HSBC had done nothing wrong. In her view, on balance, it was more likely Mr H 
had in fact requested the transfer  in the foreign currency (after  conversion by HSBC)  and 
that he was  or should have been   aware  of the exchange rate on offer.
Mr H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has sent me screenshots of HSBCs online process for requesting transfers  overseas. 
So have HSBC.  These do match, so I dont think theres any dispute here about  the way the 
transfer was requested or the screens  Mr H would have been presented with. 
At the relevant point in the process,  the customer is presented with a field labelled payment 
to be sent in. If the customer clicks on the field, a series of options pop up which  allow the 
customer to choose  the currency  in which the transfer will be made.
HSBC tell me this field will automatically default to the currency of the country to which  the 
transfer is to be made. And just beneath the field, the customer sees the exchange rate 
which HSBC are offering  to convert  GB pounds into that currency  before transfer.
In order to send  the money in GB pounds,  the customer would have to click in the field and 
change the currency  setting.
Ref: DRN22841042I believe Mr H thinks the system defaults  to GB pounds as the currency to be transferred. 
But from what hes told us, hes requested this kind of transfer before and hes aware that he 
needs to ensure the currency selected is GB pounds (if thats  what  he wants)  before he 
proceeds to confirm the request.
So, I dont think I need to resolve  what  the default currency  was when Mr H made this 
specific request. What I can say is that Mr H knows that the currency  the payment is to be 
made in is controlled  by the customer, who can select  the option  they prefer.
The crux of the dispute between Mr H and HSBC then is whether he requested  the transfer 
to be in GB pounds or the foreign  currency.
Mr H says he requested the transfer  in GB pounds.  Mr H has no proof of that  he wouldnt 
given this was an on-line transaction. Mr H says hes used the system before (successfully)  
and he says he recalls  making  this specific request  for transfer in GB pounds.
I have no doubt  thats Mr Hs genuine recollection. And I have no doubt thats what  he 
intended to do when he made  his request.
However, HSBC have provided a copy of an automatically-generated audit trail which shows  
the request made by Mr H. This is effectively in the form of an automatic message to a 
department in the bank  which  checks transactions like Mr Hs before they go through.
HSBC have been absolutely clear that this message is created  immediately  from the 
customers on-line request  as input to the system  by the customer. It cant  be changed  or 
added to  by any of the banks employees.
In this case, the automatically-generated message  says Mr H has requested  a transfer in the 
foreign currency and it also reflects the exchange rate that he accepted when making the 
request.
Im aware that systems arent fool proof.  But in this case its difficult to see why or how 
HSBCs system might  have correctly automatically created a record  to show Mr H making  a 
request for transfer of the specific amount, but falsely recorded that his request was for 
transfer in the foreign currency  with an accepted  exchange rate.
So on balance  and in the absence of any concrete evidence  to support Mr Hs 
recollections - I think its most likely  he mistakenly requested the transfer in the foreign 
currency and accepted the exchange  rate on offer at that time. 
Ref: DRN22841043my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2284104