K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc wont refund disputed  card transactions  made 
from his account. 
Background
Mr S had a current account with the Post office which is administered through  Bank  of 
Ireland. 
Mr S says he went to use the cash machine in December 2017 and noticed the balance on 
his account was lower  than he expected.  He discovered payments to three companies that 
he didnt recognise.  The merchant companies  are cover names for discreet billing  purposes 
for explicit adult websites. The payments were recurring payments which had left his account  
from December 2016 to December 2017.  He contacted the companies  to cancel the 
payments and he also contacted his bank. Bank of Ireland have said that they cannot find 
record of this call and that the customers first call to them was in 14 March  2018.
Mr S raised it with the bank. He was asked to fill in a transaction  dispute form requesting 
chargeback from the merchants. He filled in the forms on 20 April 2018.
Mr S was refunded for three transactions. £59.94 and £47.92  were  refunded  by the 
merchant on 3 January  2018 and £47.94 was refunded by the bank in April 2018. Mr S was 
concerned because he had assumed, he would receive refunds for all the recurring  
payments to these merchants. The bank said that they could not refund any further 
transactions because  the claims were outside the time limit of 120 days.
Mr S complained to the bank. He was unhappy he hadnt been refunded for all the 
transactions he was disputing.
Bank of Ireland  looked into the complaint. They  said Mr S hadnt filled in the form for all the 
transactions and they were unable to chargeback  any transactions  prior to 
23 December 2017. They said they thought it likely  that Mr S had been aware of the 
transactions before December 2017.
Mr S contacted our service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  Mr S told us he was not aware  of these 
merchants, he wasnt aware  that these  amounts  were debiting his account  regularly. He said 
he didnt receive  statements from the bank. Mr S confirmed that he had always had his card 
in his possession  and no one else had access to his account number or PIN. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. she said that as Mr Ss card and bank details  
had not been compromised it was likely  that he had authorised the payments from his 
account. She also thought that he must have been  aware of the payments  as he had 
received statements from the bank Mr S was unhappy with the investigators view, he said:
He was adamant that he hadnt  authorised  the transactions.
He had disputed  all the transactions via a chargeback  form, and he thought  the form 
had covered all the disputed  payments not just three payments.
He thought that US merchants cashback periods could be extended  to 160 or 180 
days 
Ref: DRN27651912He thought that because the merchant was not aware of his name then it suggests 
that the transactions were  not authenticated.
He did not sign up for any free trials. 
The disputed merchants names  were too generic to have aroused suspicions on his 
statement.
He didnt receive monthly  statements, they were only every  three  months.
He had no option to get mini statements from the post office  ATMs.
As there was no agreement the matter has come  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons.
Generally, Bank of Ireland  can hold Mr S liable for the disputed  transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more  likely  than not, he made or authorised  them himself.
I am satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ss genuine card details including  
CVV were used to set up the disputed recurring  payments transactions. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own enough to enable  Bank  of 
Ireland to hold Mr S liable.  So, I also need  to think about whether  the evidence  suggests its 
more likely than not Mr S consented  to the payments being made. 
From what  Ive seen I dont think its unreasonable for Bank  of Ireland to conclude  that Mr S 
authorised the transactions. I say this because:
Mr S has confirmed  that he had his card with him at all times. So, its difficult  to see 
how the information was compromised without  his knowledge.
It is unusual behaviour for a fraudster to set up continuous payment  authority as 
these would risk detection by the card holder.
The card details  were entered online to the merchants  websites,  so I think  given that 
Mr S hasnt  disclosed his details to anyone and had his card in his possession, its 
unlikely anyone else was able to register on these  websites using his details.  
Mr S has disclosed using  dating  websites and there are payments on his account  to 
such websites which he hasnt disputed. This suggests he may have signed up to 
these sites himself. 
I find it implausible that Mr S wouldnt have  been  aware of the payments coming out 
of his account. Mr S has argued  that the payments were to generic merchants, but Id 
have expected Mr S to have  noticed these  transactions sooner, especially 
considering the bank  have shown me evidence that statements were  sent to him 
every month.
Mr S also queried the Chargeback limit, but Chargeback time limits are very strict,  and these 
are decided on by the card issuers not the merchants. In this case  the time frame was 120 
days and the location of the merchant is not relevant to the timeframe.  
Ref: DRN27651913Based on everything  Ive seen I think its fair and reasonable  for Bank  of Ireland to hold Mr S 
liable. I think its most  likely Mr S consented  to the disputed transactions. It follows I wont  be 
asking Bank  of Ireland to do anything else. 
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 September  2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2765191