K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that her mortgagee Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages 
has levied  fees and charges, and made adverse  reports to the credit  referencing agencies,  
on account of missed mortgage  repayments which were due to a bank error.
To resolve  her complaint  she wants Rosinca  to refund the fees and interest charged and 
rectify her credit file.
background
Miss S had a buy-to-let  mortgage since 2007 with a building society. She moved from her 
address in October 2009 but didnt inform the building  society.
In February 2018  the mortgage  was transferred  from the building  society  to Rosinca. 
Rosinca wrote to Miss S in March 2018  saying that it was unable to establish  a new direct 
debit (DD) mandate.
Presumably that letter  went to the pre-2009 address and didnt come  to Miss Ss attention. 
As a result the direct  debit  wasnt collected  for three months, a field agent visited  the 
mortgaged address, and her credit file had missed  payments and arrears recorded on it. 
Miss S registered a notice of correction. 
She complains that Rosinca didnt do more to find her, and that the field agent  didnt  leave 
any message or correspondence for her. She also asks that the fee for the agents visit be 
refunded or that she be allowed to pay it so that it isnt added to the mortgage.
On her complaint  to Rosinca it said it had set up a new DD instruction to collect  her monthly 
payment. However,  the first collection was returned by her bank, as the instruction had been 
cancelled. This resulted  in a £6.50  DD rejection  fee being charged on 16 March 2018.  
Rosinca said letters were  sent to Miss S on 15 March 2018 and 19 March  2018, confirming 
this and explaining she was required to set up alternative payment  arrangements  to avoid 
arrears.
As no payment was received  in March 2018, Miss Ss account fell into arrears  and a £40.00 
arrears administration  fee was charged to her account on 31 March 2018.  The missed  
payment was also reported to the credit  reference agencies. As Rosinca  received  no 
payment until 20 June 2018,  another £40.00  arrears  fee was charged at the end of April 
2018 and May 2018. The level of arrears was also reported on her credit  file at the end of 
each month.
Rosinca said that owing  to the level of arrears and lack of contact, it had written to Miss S on 
17 May 2018, explaining  that a field agent  would be instructed to try and make  contact. A fee 
would be applicable for this service  if Miss S didnt meet the agent  to discuss the arrears. As 
the agent was unable  to make contact with her, fees totalling £108.00 were charged  to her 
account on 24 July 2018. 
Throughout this period  Rosinca was unable to phone Miss S as there was no telephone 
number held. It said it was Miss Ss responsibility to ensure  her contact details  were  kept up 
to date. As the fees had been correctly charged, Rosinca couldnt agree to waive them. 
Ref: DRN28405252Rosinca also said it was unable to amend her credit file as it was obliged to report true and 
accurate information  to the credit reference agencies.
Miss S brought her complaint to this service. She produced a letter  from her letting agent  
dated 15 November  2018 saying:
We manage [property] on behalf  of Miss S and have done for many  years.  Our tenant  was 
in situ since February, there is also a building management company on site. There  was no 
letter or message  left at the property,  which has been confirmed by the tenant.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. He said he understood Miss S had 
paid the arrears as soon  as she knew about them. He wasnt  aware of any regulatory 
requirement for consumers to update  their contact addresses. It might be prudent  to do so, 
but he didnt agree that Miss S should be penalised  or suffer  negative  financial 
consequences as she didnt update her residential  address.
Unbeknown to Miss S, her lender had changed so a new DD mandate had to be set up. 
Through no fault of hers,  three direct debit payments had been  missed so her credit record 
showed delinquent behaviour with potentially severe  consequences on her ability  to get new 
credit.
The investigator considered that Rosinca hadnt  treated  Miss S fairly  and reasonably. He 
assumed Rosinca had had access to her mortgage transaction history which presumably 
showed no missed  payments in 11 years. He thought Rosinca should have realised that the 
payments were missed  not owing to Miss Ss error,  but owing to the fact that there  was an 
administrative problem between Rosinca and the building  society during the transfer  of the 
mortgage.
The investigator recommended  that Rosinca should:
refund  all the arrears  fees, field agent visit fees etc. levied on Miss Ss mortgage  account 
since the date it took over the mortgage; 
adjust the interest applied  on the above  fees; and
rectify  the negative  information reported to the credit reference  agencies, so that 
Miss Ss credit report didnt show  any arrears,  missed payments  etc. in this period.
Rosinca didnt agree.  It said:
When the mortgage  was transferred to Rosinca, a welcome letter was sent to all affected  
customers, I have attached a copy for your information. You will see that the letter stated 
that if payments  were  made by Direct  Debit, the customer need not take any action, the 
existing Direct Debit would continue, but would be collected by [Rosinca] rather  than 
[previous lender]..
the first collection on 16 March 2018  was returned by Miss Ss bank, as the instruction had 
been cancelled.  This is not something that was done by Rosinca  as the direct debit simply 
transferred over. I would expect that when the direct  debit first rejected, a letter would have 
been sent to Miss S from her bank to inform her of this. I would also expect that they should 
have her up to date address, even if we didnt.  Upon receipt of their letter, Miss S could then 
have made  enquiries  to her bank as to which direct debit had rejected and why.
Ref: DRN28405253Rosinca said it couldnt agree that it should be held responsible for the DD rejecting and 
subsequent action thereafter.  
In the light of this the investigator  caused  Miss S to make enquiries of her bank as to who 
had cancelled the DD and why. She reported  that the bank had informed  her that Rosinca 
had set up a new DD on 22 February  2018,  but had cancelled it on 22 and 24 March. She 
produced a letter from her bank  dated 9 January 2019 saying:
I would like to confirm that we did not cancel your direct  debit  with [previous lender]. We 
received a notification  from them to cancel  your direct debit mandate on 21 February  2018.  
On this date, a company by the name  of "Topaz  Financial - Rosinca"  set up a direct debit 
with us. There is nothing  to suggest  that we rejected this. In fact, I managed  to search our 
back office systems and I found out that on 20 March 2018  Topaz  requested for us to cancel 
the direct  debit mandate. They asked us to cancel it again on 22 March 2018. Since then, 
there have  been  no requests for the direct  debit to be set up.
I can confirm that we have not cancelled any of your direct  debits  nor have we rejected to 
have any set up. Our systems reflect that the company in question  - Topaz  requested a 
cancellation of the direct debit mandate one month after setting it up with us. 
The investigator shared  this information  with Rosinca but it denied that it had cancelled the 
DD and asked for the matter to be referred  to an ombudsman. It said that when the DD first 
rejected, a letter would have been sent to Miss S from her bank to inform her of this. Miss S 
could then have  made enquiries to her bank  as to which  DD had rejected and why. The 
arrears could have  then been  brought  up to date and the situation rectified. 
Rosinca said it wouldnt cancel a DD for no reason and it believed  from the notes  on the 
account that a report was received advising the DD had been cancelled  by the payer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rosincas welcome letter dated February 2018 said:
The good news  is that you need  take no action to continue  receiving  the benefits of Direct 
Debit. Please be assured  this change will not affect the service you receive in any way. The 
only change you will notice is that with effect from 23 February 2018, we will collect  your 
Direct Debits instead of [previous lender] and thereforeRosinca will appear  on your 
bank/building society statement. There is no need for you to complete a new Direct Debit 
Instruction, as details  of the change will have been supplied to your bank, who may also 
notify you, independently. You may also see a comment on your bank statement advising 
you of the final payment  under the old name details and the first payment under the new 
name/details.
Miss S didnt of course receive  this letter, but I dont  think  that makes  any difference  because 
it didnt require her to do anything. And in any event Rosinca confirmed in its responses to 
Miss S and to the investigator that the cause of the missed payments was cancellation of the 
direct debit.
Ref: DRN28405254Miss Ss bank has produced a screenshot from its systems which shows that the DD was 
cancelled by the previous lender, and a new one set up by Rosinca, both on 
21 February 2018. The screenshot also shows that Rosinca instructed the bank to cancel 
the DD on 20 March  and again  on 22 March.
As it has pointed out, there was no reason for Rosinca  to cancel the DD either.  Therefore I 
dont think its likely  that the cancellation was a deliberate act. Although  Rosinca refers to its 
notes suggesting  that the DD was cancelled by the bank, there isnt any evidence of that. 
And there was no reason  for the bank  to do that either.
What is evidenced,  however,  is that the DD was cancelled  by Rosinca, and I think  its most 
likely that this was caused by a system  error arising  during the transfer  process. I think the 
unnecessary duplicate cancellation supports this. 
Therefore I consider  it to have been  evidenced  that the cancellation, and hence the missed 
payments, happened because  of a banking error. And in that case  the adverse records 
should be removed  from Miss Ss credit file.
For these reasons I consider this complaint should be upheld  and that Rosinca should:
refund  to Miss Ss mortgage  account all the arrears fees, field agent  visit fees and other 
fees or charges levied in consequence  of the missed payments; 
refund  the interest applied on the above  fees and charges; and
rectify  the adverse information  reported  to the credit reference agencies,  so that Miss Ss 
credit report  doesnt  show  any arrears or missed payments due to the cancelled direct  
debit in March  2018.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Topaz Finance Limited  trading as 
Rosinca Mortgages  to make redress to Miss S as outlined  in my findings above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2840525