K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that the vehicle  she acquired  through a conditional sale agreement 
financed by PSA Finance UK Limited  was misrepresented in that it failed to achieve the 
advertised miles per gallon. She wants to reject  the vehicle.
background
Miss W tells us she acquired her new vehicle  in June 2017 through  a dealer Ill refer to as 
B. She says the vehicle was advertised as being able to do 53-73 miles per gallon (mpg). 
She says shes only able to get around  45mpg. She says B took the car in for tests but was 
only able to get 51 mpg. Miss W tells us this is costing her hundreds of pounds  in extra fuel 
costs. She says B offered  to buy back the vehicle  but this would have left her still owing 
around £3,500  on the agreement.
PSA explained that the manufacturer  of the vehicle had stated:
"We publish the mpg figures based on tests carried out in strict  conditions  which  are set by 
the European commission. Real life driving  conditions and the mpg figure can be dependent 
on a number of factors out of our control. Factors  such as the weather, driving style, types of 
journey, road surfaces, and additional weight will all have a bearing on the achievable mpg."
And it went to say that B had examined the vehicle but wasnt able to find a fault with it. But it 
(B) had explained that tyre brand and use of the air conditioning system might  also impact 
on the fuel consumption. It said that B had offered to buy back the vehicle for £7,500 but 
Miss W had declined this offer.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He said the mpg figure  
was impacted by various factors including tyres; weather; load and driving  style.  He didnt 
think thered been  any misrepresentation.
Miss W didnt accept  this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Miss Ws vehicle  hasnt lived up to her expectations and I can understand her 
disappointment. Her complaint is about a misrepresentation of the fuel consumption  figures. 
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer to enter a 
contract. And whilst I dont apply the law - directly - I do take it into account. 
As the supplier of the vehicle  PSA is equally liable for any misrepresentation which  might  
have been made by B as to quality and performance of the vehicle. Ive not been  provided  
with copies of all the original sources from which Miss W obtained the information about fuel 
consumption. And I accept its also likely  there was a discussion during the negotiations prior 
to the agreement being incepted. But Ive seen  screenshots provided by Miss W which  she 
says she found  on the manufacturers website.  These relate to the mpg figures  which were 
recorded in official  tests and range from 54.3 (urban) to 76.3 (extra  urban). However,  I dont 
think this means theres been a misrepresentation. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN21490382As a service  we frequently  receive  complaints that a vehicle is not achieving  the mpg which  
appears to have been claimed in advertisements.  Im therefore  able to say from knowledge 
gained from dealing with such  complaints  that consumption figures are laboratory based  and 
are unlikely to reflect  real world efficiency.  Manufacturers and suppliers of vehicles are 
obliged to use figures obtained from standard  test procedures. Until 2018 the figures were 
based on a test known as the New European  Driving Cycle. This allowed a comparison to be 
made between vehicles of different manufacturers as they were tested under the same 
conditions. 
Reference to mpg in sales promotion literature is therefore, about what was achieved  under 
these strictly regulated  conditions. Theres no evidence these were not correctly recorded  
and Ive no information to show Miss W was told that these figures would  be replicated in 
normal driving conditions.
I dont think its feasible to compare the stated consumption figures to what  is achieved on 
the road. Thats because road, traffic,  driving, temperature and vehicle set up, vary 
considerably. In addition, its not possible to say how an individual driving style might  affect 
the fuel consumption  of a particular vehicle. 
As I dont think theres been a misrepresentation it follows  that PSA would not be liable for 
any difference in the fuel consumption achieved by Miss W and the advertised figures. And 
whilst I know it will come as a disappointment  to her Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2149038