K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says Elevate Credit International Limited (ECI) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 8 instalment loans which ECI provided to Mrs M between February 
2017 and February  2018. Mrs Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 26/02/2017 16/03/2017 6 £200.00 £61.19
2 12/04/2017 14/04/2017 6 £200.00 £95.23
3 02/05/2017 08/05/2017 6 £100.00 £97.09
4 01/11/2017 21/02/2018 6 £200.00 £63.76
5 13/11/2017 15/12/2017 6 £100.00 £97.09
6 12/12/2017 27/03/2018 6 £100.00 £94.18
7 29/01/2018 26/04/2018 6 £200.00 £159.77
8 26/02/2018 24/04/2018 6 £100.00 £128.57
Mrs M told us she had been made redundant  although she didnt say when  this happened 
- so she says she could not afford  the loans but still had to rely on short-term  lending. She 
concludes ECI should have  declined  her loan applications, and that it had irresponsibly lent 
money to her.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Ms complaint and thought loan 8 shouldnt  have been 
given. ECI agreed  with our adjudicators view and made an offer in line with our approach to 
settle the complaint. Mrs M rejected the offer and so the complaint was passed to me.
As ECI have already  made an offer for loan 8, I dont need  to look at that loan again. So in 
this decision, I will only look at loans  1 to 7  although I will need to look at Mrs Ms full 
lending history with ECI to assess the case fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
ECI needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. In Mrs Ms 
case, I think there were  two lending chains because I noted  there  was around a six-month 
Ref: DRN24551652gap after loan 3 had been paid and before loan 4 was taken out. So I would expect less 
thorough checks might  have been  reasonable and proportionate in the early stages of both 
lending chains.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that ECI should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that ECI was required to establish whether 
Mrs M could  sustainably repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
ECI says that before it lent any of the loans, it conducted creditworthiness  checks  and 
assessed her ability  to afford the loan repayments. It considered how she managed  her 
other debts  at the time and, based on all of its checks, it decided it was responsible  to lend 
to Mrs M.
On looking at the full lending history  of loans 1 to 8, Mrs M needed to make the highest 
monthly repayment of around £159.77.  Ive seen a record  of the information ECI says Mrs M 
provided when  she completed her loan applications. Mrs M declared  a monthly income  of 
around £1,200.00 (at its lowest) and she had regular monthly outgoings of £725 (at its 
highest). This left her with a disposable  income of around £475. So it does  look like the loans 
(including the most expensive loan)  was affordable  on her declared income (even when 
taken at the lowest declared  amount.) 
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely ECI was made  aware of any 
financial problems Mrs M might  have been having or anything  that would have prompted  it to 
Ref: DRN24551653investigate Mrs Ms circumstances further.  I think it was reasonable for ECI to rely on the 
information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments  ECI did for loans  1 to 7 were 
most likely proportionate. And I think its decisions to lend for loans 1 to 7 were probably  
reasonable. So Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint about them.  I noted  Mrs M recently told 
us she had been made redundant   she did not tell us exactly  when this happened  - but I 
have not seen anything on the file that ECI was aware of her redundancy. So again, I think  it 
is reasonable to say ECI was able to rely on the information it had obtained to make  its 
lending decisions.  So Im not upholding  Mrs Ms complaint about  loans  1 to 7.  
However, I agree with our adjudicator and ECI that loan 8 should be upheld. So I think  ECI 
should put things right for Mrs M.
putting things right  what Elevate Credit  International  Limited needs to do
Elevate Credit International Limited shouldnt have given Mrs M loan 8.
If Elevate  Credit International Limited has sold the outstanding debts, it should buy these 
back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Elevate Credit International 
Limited is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new debt owner  to 
achieve the results  outlined  below.  
A)Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs M towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance,  not including anything  Elevate 
Credit International  Limited has already refunded.
B)Calculate 8% per year simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs M which  
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding loans, 
and treat any repayments made  by Mrs M as though  they had been  repayments of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs M having made overpayments then 
you should refund these  overpayments  with 8% per year simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. Elevate Credit International Limited should then refund the amounts 
calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D)If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding  loans and any principal Elevate Credit 
International Limited has already  written-off. If this results  in a surplus then the surplus  
should be paid to Mrs M. However if there  is still an outstanding balance then Elevate 
Credit International  Limited should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs M. It 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made  up of the principal it has already written-off.
E)The overall pattern  of Mrs Ms borrowing for loan 8 means  any information recorded about  
it is adverse, so Elevate Credit International Limited  should remove loan 8 entirely  from Mrs 
Ms credit file. It does not have to remove loan 8 from Mrs Ms credit file until it has been  
repaid, but it should still remove any adverse payment information  recorded about loan 8.
Ref: DRN24551654*HM Revenue & Customs requires Elevate Credit  International Limited to deduct  tax from 
this interest. Elevate  Credit International Limited should give Mrs M a certificate  showing 
how much  tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right for Mrs M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2455165