K820x#14summary and background to complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained about  the sale of a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out in August 2001 in connection with a secured loan. 
Matlock Bank Limited (Matlock) says that a broker was responsible for the sale of the loan 
and associated PPI. So it says that it was not responsible for the sale of the PPI.
An adjudicator looked at the case and agreed that Matlock wasnt  responsible  for the sale of 
the PPI. Mr and Mrs W asked for an ombudsman to look into this so the case came  to me to 
make a decision. 
I set out in my provisional decision dated 8 February 2019 why I was minded to find that 
Matlock was responsible  for the sale of the PPI. I invited both parties to let me have  any 
further comments and evidence. Matlock provided some further evidence  which  caused me 
to change my mind.  In my second  provisional  decision  dated 30 April 2019 I set out why I 
was minded to find that Matlock was not responsible for the sale. I again invited both parties  
to let me have any further comments and evidence. 
No further submissions have been provided  by either Nationwide or Mr and Mrs W.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my first provisional decision  I set out the following:
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  and at what Mr and Mrs W have told us 
about the sale. Mr and Mrs W say that they saw the loan advertised in a newspaper. 
They say that they contacted London Mortgage Company and got a quote over the 
phone for the loan and PPI. Mr and Mrs W say the credit agreement was then sent to 
them and they signed and returned  it.
I have seen the Credit  Agreement,  which is headed  with the details of London 
Mortgage Company.  At the top it sets out that the loan agreement  is made between 
Mr and Mrs W and Matlock Bank Limited  trading as London Mortgage Company. So I 
am satisfied  that Matlock  is the lender and that it was trading as London Mortgage 
Company.
The credit agreement has been signed  by Mr and Mrs W and dated  19 August 2001 
and then signed on behalf of London Mortgage Company and dated 31 August 2001. 
So Im satisfied that this is consistent  with what Mr and Mrs W have said about 
receiving the forms by post and sending them back.
Matlock says  through its legal representatives  that it did not sell PPI and that the 
PPI sold alongside  its loans was sold by a network of independent finance brokers.  
Matlock hasnt been able to provide  any evidence of who the broker  was in this sale 
or demonstrate that any commission was paid to a broker for this sale. Likewise, 
Matlock hasnt provided any details of any brokers  it used or any evidence to support 
its assertion that it didnt  sell PPI at all. Matlocks legal representatives have also said 
Ref: DRN23138342that Matlock didnt have  a sales  team  to sell PPI. However, Matlock again hasnt 
provided any evidence  to support this.
In my second provisional decision  I had received some further information and set out the 
following:
Following [the first] provisional decision Matlock  through  its legal representatives  - 
was able to provide some further evidence  in the form of Land Registry records 
relating to Matlocks  second charge over the property. 
In particular, Matlock provided a copy of a letter from Business B to Business A dated 
31 August 2001  indicating  that it consents to a second charge being  registered in 
favour of Matlock in the sum of £11,400 over the property. This is the same property, 
amount and time period  as the secured loan detailed above.
As a result of this letter,  the service  has sought information from both Business A and 
Business B as to why the letter was sent. Business B was unable  to confirm  why it 
sent the letter to Business A and Business A itself was unwilling to provide any 
information to this service.  Mr and Mrs W requested information directly from 
Business A and it provided a number of documents.
I have now seen a copy of a valuation report dated 23 August 2001 headed with the 
London Mortgage Company. At the top of this document it says Broker  Name: 
Business A and it also has the broker reference  number. There  is also further 
correspondence between  Business A and Business A relating to the second  charge 
on the property.  
This new evidence  supports what Matlock has said about using a broker for the sale. 
Given that the PPI was included on the credit  agreement signed on 19 August 2001,  I 
think it most likely that the broker was responsible  for the sale of both the mortgage 
and the PPI. In light of Business A being  named  as the broker on the valuation 
report, the new evidence means I am no longer satisfied that Matlock  was 
responsible for the sale of the PPI. 
As Matlock didnt sell the PPI (and wasnt responsible  for the business  who did sell 
it), Im minded to find that Matlock wasnt responsible for the sale. It follows that it 
wasnt responsible  for carrying out the sale properly.  So, as I dont think it did 
anything wrong, Im now intending not to uphold the complaint against Matlock.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
I know Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed that Im reaching this conclusion. Im sorry we 
cant help them on this occasion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above,  my decision is that is that 
Matlock Bank Limited wasnt  responsible for the sale of the PPI and therefore I dont uphold 
this complaint against it.
Ref: DRN23138343Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 June  2019.
Rachel Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2313834