K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that their mortgage  lender acted irresponsibly in lending their 
mortgage. Although  not their original lender, Kensington Mortgage Company has taken then 
mortgage over and is responsible for this complaint.
background
In 2008, Mr and Mrs H re-mortgaged via a broker. They borrowed just over £310,000 on 
capital and interest repayment over a term of 25 years. The aim of the re-mortgage was to 
replace their existing mortgage and second  charge  loan, and consolidate  a number of 
unsecured debts.
The mortgage lender has been  Kensington since 2016, though it was originally a different 
business which no longer trades.
In summary,  Mr H complains, on behalf of himself  and Mrs H, that it was irresponsible to 
lend, and in breach of the mortgage regulations, because:
The property was overvalued, and was actually worth less than the amount lent.
The monthly payment  was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs H, given their income  at the 
time.
Mr and Mrs H werent  lent enough money to cover  their outstanding unsecured 
debts.
The term runs into their intended  retirement.
The amount  borrowed  was more than 85% of the propertys value, which  meant it 
was outside the lenders  lending criteria  at the time.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. As Mr and Mrs H disagreed with 
our investigators findings, the complaint has been  passed to me for final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, as Kensington has consented to us looking into this complaint, I dont need to 
consider whether or not Mr and Mrs H complained  within  the time limits set by the regulator. 
And although the mortgage originated with a different lender, as Kensington now owns  and 
administers the mortgage, Im satisfied its responsible for this complaint. For ease, I shall 
refer to the lender as Kensington throughout.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs H feel very strongly  that their mortgage was mis-sold to them.  Ours  
is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the 
crux of the complaint.  Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep  my 
comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  point, its not 
because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment  on it in order  to 
reach the right outcome.
This mortgage was sold by a broker. We are considering a separate complaint against  
Mr and Mrs Hs broker under a separate reference. Where a broker  gives  advice,  generally  
Ref: DRN22047612at the time the broker was responsible for advising  on whether the mortgage was suitable 
and affordable  though the sale was recorded  as being on a non-advised basis in this case.
That said,  when considering Mr and Mrs Hs application,  Kensington  needed to take into 
account their ability to repay the mortgage, including any known or expected changes to 
their income  such as retirement. Kensington also needed to decide whether or not it 
considered the property  to be good  security  for the mortgage.
property valuation
Mr H disputes the valuation reached  by the surveyor, providing a number of property listings  
from the nearby  area to support his position.  He also points to the value of the property given 
on the mortgage application,  which appears to have been amended  from £270,000 to 
£370,000.
Its not clear whether  the figure on the application  form was mistakenly noted originally as 
£270,000 by the broker or amended following the valuation by the surveyor.  In either  case, I 
wouldnt expect Kensington to have  relied on the figure in the application. I would have 
expected it to arrange a valuation to determine  whether or not it was willing to accept the 
property as security for the proposed borrowing.
Kensington employed the services of a surveyor. Kensington  needed to instruct  a suitably  
qualified surveyor, which it did in this instance by appointing a member of the Royal Institute 
of Chartered Surveyors.
Kensington isnt responsible for the actions of the surveyor,  including the valuation figure 
they reached. I think Kensington  acted reasonably by accepting the valuation the surveyor  
reached, and relying on the valuation  to decide  the property was acceptable security for the 
proposed borrowing.  I havent seen any evidence  that the valuation  was contested at the 
time. I dont think it was unfair for Kensington to rely on the valuation in deciding  how much  
to lend.
Did Kensington  lend responsibly?
The remainder of Mr and Mrs Hs points are about  the affordability of the mortgage,  and 
Kensingtons decision to lend. As the lender,  Kensington needed to take into account 
Mr and Mrs Hs ability to repay the mortgage  in deciding  whether it was responsible to lend.
Mr H complains that Kensington lent more than 85% of the propertys value which  was 
outside its lending  criteria.
Kensington has said that, although it doesnt hold the original lenders full criteria, its aware 
that it would  lend up to 85% of the propertys value, excluding any fees. In this case, it was 
the fees which took the loan to value ratio very slightly  above 85%. In any case, it wasnt  
uncommon at the time  and still isnt  for lenders  to offer mortgages up to 95% of the value 
of a property. So, overall,  I dont  think  it was unreasonable for Kensington to lend just over 
85% of the value  of Mr and Mrs Hs property. And in any case  if fees were excluded  from the 
calculation  as appeared to have been  the lenders policy at the time  the loan to value is 
clearly below 85%.
Ref: DRN22047613Mr H complains that the monthly  repayment, just over £2,100,  was clearly unaffordable for 
them. He also complains  that Kensington didnt lend them  enough to repay all of their 
outstanding debts.
The point of sale documentation Ive seen includes a list of Mr and Mrs Hs outstanding 
debts, which  included  their existing mortgage  and secured loan, two personal loans and a 
number of credit cards.  Their fixed monthly  commitments for these debts totalled 
considerably more (at least  £300 more) than the prospective monthly mortgage payment, 
and all their accounts  were up to date.  The new mortgage would reduce Mr and Mrs Hs 
outgoings each  month,  putting them in a more affordable position than before. So I think  it 
was reasonable  for Kensington to believe the monthly mortgage  payment would be 
manageable, and take the decision to lend on that basis.
In terms of the amount lent not being enough to cover  Mr and Mrs Hs outstanding debts, I 
think its clear  from the application  and list of credit commitments that they were 
overstretched. I think  its likely  their monthly  outgoings were exceeding their income.  So I 
think its likely their debts grew  in between the application  and the completion of the 
mortgage. I dont  think thats something  I could reasonably expect Kensington to be aware 
of, and I dont think  its a reason it should  have  lent more. Even with the increase in their 
outstanding personal debts, the funds released by the mortgage should  have given 
Mr and Mrs H breathing  space by reducing their monthly commitments.  
Mr H also complains that the term of the mortgage runs past their intended retirement dates, 
and hes concerned it wont be affordable for them at that point. I think its clear that the 
proposed lending was at the limits of what Kensington would accept. I think  its likely  the 
term was set beyond  Mr and Mrs Hs intended retirement dates to lower the monthly 
payment.
The application asked  Mr and Mrs H how they planned to cover the cost of the mortgage  
after retirement. They said theyd  sell the property or move in with family.
At the time,  Mr and Mrs Hs retirement was at least 20 years in the future. And for the 
reasons Ive outlined  above, I think its fair to say they had a need to consolidate their 
existing debts. Its not uncommon for borrowers  circumstances to change during the term of 
a mortgage  its likely their salaries will rise over time, for instance. Equally, they may 
choose to change mortgage  providers  or sell their property and move elsewhere. As Ive 
explained, when  reaching the decision to lend, Kensington only had to take into account 
Mr and Mrs Hs ability to repay  and I think it did. Overall, I think Mr and Mrs H were left in a 
better position having taken this mortgage than they were before.
Ref: DRN22047614my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 September 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2204761