K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Paratus AMC Limited  (trading as Foundation Home Loans or FHL) has 
unfairly declined  his request to extend the term of his interest  only mortgage. He believes 
FHL wont extend his mortgage term because of his age. 
Mr T would like FHL to extend  his current mortgage  to May 2020 when he turns  75 years 
old. He says this would give him enough time to repay FHL in full.
background
In 2006 Mr T took out a mortgage for around  £145,000 with GMAC-RFC Limited  having  
received advice from a mortgage broker. The mortgage was taken out on an interest only 
basis and over a 13 year term, to expire in May 2019. 
During the term of Mr Ts mortgage, GMAC-RFC Limited has changed its name to Paratus 
AMC Limited. Foundation Home Loans  (FHL)  is a trading style of Paratus AMC Limited. 
In early 2018 Mr T got in touch with FHL. He asked  it to extend the term of his mortgage.  Mr 
T said he couldnt sell his property at present although he had two life policies in place that 
were due to mature in the future. Mr T said hed met with a mortgage broker  and he couldnt 
afford a capital repayment mortgage.  Instead  Mr T asked FHL to extend the term by five 
years  so it would end in 2024. 
FHL wouldnt agree to extend the term of the mortgage unless Mr T would switch  to a 
repayment mortgage. It asked how Mr T planned to repay the outstanding balance of the 
mortgage. Mr T said he held two life insurance  policies  which were due to mature in seven 
years. But FHL said it couldnt accept the life policies as a suitable repayment vehicle for the 
mortgage as they only paid out in the event of Mr Ts death.  Mr T also said he would  be 
willing to switch his mortgage to a lifetime mortgage.  FHL said it didnt offer lifetime  
mortgages. 
Mr T complained to FHL.  It gave a final response  to his complaint on 17 April 2018. It didnt 
uphold his complaint. FHL said it had followed its approach to term extensions  at maturity,  
and that it didnt have a lifetime mortgage  within its product range. 
Mr T has brought a complaint about the sale of the mortgage against the broker.  That has 
been dealt separately.
Mr T disagreed with FHLs response and brought the matter to us. He says FHL wont 
extend the term of his interest only mortgage because  of his age and he considers this to be 
discrimination. Mr T says its unfair that FHL wont extend the term of the mortgage allowing 
him to refinance elsewhere, or, if needs  be, to sell his property.  
FHLs said to us that it declined Mr Ts term extension request because  Mr T doesnt  have  a 
suitable repayment vehicle. It said it told Mr T about the restrictions  on its lending criteria due 
to age for information  purposes only. And whilst  it wouldnt  extend  the mortgage  term, it said 
it would  give Mr T time to sell his property. 
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Ts complaint  should  be upheld.  She didnt think Mr T had a 
suitable repayment vehicle and he didnt  have any viable options for FHL to rely on. 
Ref: DRN20247912Mr T didnt  agree with our investigators  findings  and he asked for an ombudsman to 
consider his complaint and make a final decision.
Mr T has raised  some additional concerns with us in recent months.  Hes questioned 
whether it was irresponsible of his lender to give him the interest  only loan in the first place,  
knowing he didnt have  a way to repay the borrowing at the end of the term.
This is a new issue that has been raised more  recently and it isnt something that FHL has 
had the chance to respond to. To be clear, I havent considered this new issue as part of this 
complaint. This is something that Mr T would need to raise  with FHL before we consider this 
matter further. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 11 December 2019. In it I said:
Mr T approached  FHL in 2018 to ask for an extension to the mortgage term. He was initially  
looking for an extension  of his interest  only mortgage for five years,  to 2024. Mr T had told 
FHL that he had life policies that would  mature  in the future, and he planned to use those 
policies to repay the mortgage. Im satisfied  that FHL explored whether these policies had an 
investment element to them. It seems, upon further  investigation, that these were life policies 
that only paid out in the event of Mr Ts death. As such  there  wasnt a maturity  value  that 
would reduce the balance, or pay off, this mortgage.
I think it was reasonable  that FHL expected the mortgage balance  to be repaid at the end of 
the mortgage term. This was the expiry  date in the terms  of the agreement that Mr T had 
entered into years before.  
I also think it was reasonable that FHL didnt  agree  to extend the interest  only term by five 
years to 2024. FHL realised having  spoken  with Mr T that his policies wouldnt have a 
maturity value, and didnt offer a viable plan to repay  the mortgage balance in five years. I 
think a five year term extension would have only pushed the issue  of Mr T not having  a way 
to repay  his interest only mortgage further  into the future and I struggle  to believe that would 
have been in his best interests.
However, I think FHL could have  done  more to help Mr T when it found  he didnt have a 
strategy in place to repay the mortgage in 2019.  This seems to have  led to discussions 
ending. FHL said it would only agree to extend the term of the mortgage on a capital 
repayment basis. And it suggested Mr T get help from an independent  financial  advisor  
about his other options.
Mr T told FHL he couldnt afford to convert  his mortgage to capital repayment. I cant see 
that FHL completed  an income and expenditure with Mr T to see what might  be affordable. 
Although Mr T has explained  that hes entitled to Support for Mortgage Interest (SMI)  as a 
loan, and this suggests to me that Mr T is on a limited income and that he may well not be 
able to afford any part of his mortgage on a capital repayment basis.
Ref: DRN20247913FHL said in its final response dated 17 April 2018 that it had done nothing wrong in declining 
Mr Ts request to extend  the term of his mortgage. In this letter  FHL says it could only offer a 
term extension if Mr T switched to a capital repayment mortgage. FHL also said it wouldnt 
agree to extend Mr Ts interest only mortgage  because he didnt  have a suitable repayment 
vehicle in place.  I think it was presented that FHL only had two options  open to it and neither 
would be of help to Mr T. I can see that Mr T would have felt FHL wasnt  trying  to help him in 
April 2018. I also think the tone of FHLs final response was fairly dismissive of Mr Ts 
complaint. I think more could have  done more at this point to discuss  Mr Ts plans, and how 
FHL could  support him to repay his mortgage.
When responding to Mr Ts complaint about  a term extension, FHL gave Mr T information 
about the maximum age within its lending criteria.  It gave the maximum age at present and 
when Mr T had taken out the loan. The maximum age FHL would lend to in 2006 had been 
75. Mr T was to be 74 when his loan expired and I think this is why Mr T then suggests hed 
like to have an extra year to sort out his plans.
FHL says the information about age limits was apparently given  to clarify the position to Mr 
T. However, I think this only made the situation  more confusing for Mr T. I can see why Mr T 
asked himself why FHL wouldnt give him a further  year on his interest only mortgage, to the 
age of 75, seeing as that was the maximum age limit mentioned in FHLs letter. I think  this is 
why Mr T wondered whether hed suffered age discrimination. Im not persuaded that there  
was any discrimination against Mr T because of his age. Im satisfied, from all the evidence  
provided and having  taken into account the wider  situation, the reason FHL wouldnt agree  
to extend the loan was because it didnt think that Mr T had a viable strategy  to repay it in 
the future.
FHL went on to issue another final response  on 18 February 2019. In this letter it clarified  its 
age policy  and tried to make it clearer to Mr T why it hadnt agreed to extend the term of his 
mortgage. I think this clarification was only needed  because FHL hadnt  engaged fully with 
Mr T in 2018  when he first asked  for a term extension.
I think, if FHL had engaged with Mr T in 2018  when he first wanted to discuss an interest 
only term extension,  it might have given more consideration to providing a short  term 
extension to give Mr T a chance  to explore  alternative financing, or sell his property. 
FHL has said to us that its willing to agree not to start its litigation process to seek 
repayment of the mortgage for a while as this isnt a straightforward situation.  Its also said it 
will work with Mr T and is happy to discuss his proposals. But this doesnt  seem to have 
happened as yet. 
what do I think should happen now to put things right?
Mr Ts asked  for his mortgage to be extended to May 2020  to allow  him time to explore a 
potential solution  with his financial advisor. Im conscious that this date is now not far into the 
future. Mr T proposed this as a solution  in the summer of 2019 as he felt he only needed  a 
year to refinance, or sell his property  to repay  this mortgage. 
It would be useful if Mr T could provide an update  about his financing  plans and whether he 
has now decided to sell his property.  
Ref: DRN20247914Ive already said that I think FHL could have  done  more to engage with Mr T about his 
options, and to reflect on what might now be considered to be in Mr Ts best interests. I think  
FHL was fairly inflexible  by refusing  to discuss any extension of an interest only mortgage 
term because its policy didnt allow it. I can see why Mr T felt he had no choice but to pursue 
a complaint instead of focusing  on planning  how to repay his mortgage. 
To put things right I plan to direct  FHL to extend  the term of Mr Ts mortgage to May 2020. 
This was the time that Mr T had asked for to finalise his plans to refinance  elsewhere, or to 
sell his property and repay the mortgage in full.
As Ive explained above, I consider more could have been done to help Mr T sooner. I also 
think FHLs final response letter in 2018  was dismissive of his concerns and hasnt helped to 
keep Mr T engaging with his mortgage  lender to find a way to repay  his mortgage loan. In 
light of this I consider  that FHL should  pay Mr T £300 for the shortcomings in its customer 
service, and the upset  and worry this would have caused Mr T.
responses to my provisional  decision
Both Mr T and FHL responded to my provisional  decision.
Mr T said he was pleased  with my provisional  findings and that he would accept an 
extension of the mortgage term to May 2020  and payment of £300 to settle  the matter. Mr T 
is exploring his options  in January and, if necessary,  he will sell his property this year to 
repay FHL.
FHL didnt  agree with my provisional findings. It said it had continued to speak with Mr T 
while this complaint had been with us. It said it had agreed  to give Mr T eight months  to sell 
the property, from July 2019. It didnt think it was reasonable that Mr T was now given a 
further extension  to the loan term. FHL also didnt  agree that there  had been any problems 
with the customer  service it had provided. FHL asked me to reconsider my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and further arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular, Ive thought carefully about 
what FHL and Mr T have said in response to my provisional decision.
Im pleased that FHL has spoken with Mr T while  this complaint has been investigated by us 
to try to find a way of helping him repay his interest  only mortgage. I can see why FHL is 
motivated to get this mortgage repaid in a timely  way, and why it feels its informal  extension  
of eight months (from July 2019) to sell his property should settle the matter. 
Im also conscious that this is Mr Ts home,  and that this matter is very important to him. For 
over a year Mr T has been waiting to find out how this complaint will be resolved. This final 
decision marks the end of this chapter for Mr T and gives  him the chance  to now sort out 
how he will pay this mortgage off when  it expires in May 2020.  Id encourage Mr T to take 
action without delay  so he can be sure to repay his borrowing  when his mortgage expires.
Im still persuaded  that there were shortcomings in the service provided  to Mr T when he 
asked for a term extension. I think if FHL had explored all options with Mr T in 2018,  it could 
have considered extending  the term of the interest only mortgage  to May 2020. FHL told Mr 
Ref: DRN20247915T that a term extension  was not possible - unless  he transferred his mortgage onto a capital 
repayment basis. FHL later agreed  to an eight month extension to his interest only mortgage  
from July 2019,  to allow Mr T time to sell his property. It isnt clear  to me why it didnt offer 
this the previous year when he first requested  this.
I think that the fair way to put things right for Mr T is to now give him the term extension he 
asked it to give reasonable consideration to before. 
FHLs failure  to engage with Mr T in 2018  led him to feel he had no options available  to him 
other than to complain. I consider this to be poor customer  service. I also think its been an 
unwelcome distraction  to both parties,  and it has prevented Mr T from focussing on his plans 
to repay  this mortgage  sooner. I consider that payment of £300 for the upset caused by 
FHLs actions to be fair to settle the matter.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Paratus AMC Limited (trading as 
Foundation Home  Loans). 
To settle  the matter I direct Paratus  AMC Limited to:
-extend the expiry  date of Mr Ts interest  only mortgage to the end of May 2020; and
-pay Mr T £300 for the upset caused  by the shortcomings in its customer service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2024791