K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about how Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc administered  his credit  
card account.
 
background
At first, Mr A complained that the account did not belong to him. But during the course  of the 
complaint he accepted  that the account did belong to him. 
However, he suggested that MSFS had not responded appropriately to his correspondence. 
In particular it seemed  that he was dissatisfied that its responses to him appeared 
uncoordinated. He mentioned things such as being  contacted by several different people  
from MSFS, and not receiving acknowledgements of his letters.  Further  he suggested 
sometimes the responses contradicted each other. In addition, he was contacted by phone  
when he was clear  that his preference was to be contacted in writing only. Added to which,  
some of its correspondence made him feel like it was accusing him of acting unlawfully. Mr A 
wanted substantial  compensation  running into several thousand pounds for this behaviour.  
MSFS agreed it had not responded as it should  have done  to Mr As initial  letters of 
complaint. It said it had paid him £100 for this. But it didnt accept that it had done  anything 
else wrong.
Mr A didnt agree and brought his complaint to us.
We looked at Mr As complaint. Our adjudicator  didnt uphold  it. In short, she could see that 
MSFS had not always  offered  Mr A the level of customer service that he was entitled to 
expect. That said, she thought the payment of £100  made up for the distress and 
inconvenience it is likely its behaviour caused  Mr A to experience. She thought,  in the 
circumstances it was not fair and reasonable to ask it to take any further action.
Mr A disagreed with our adjudicator. He provided  a detailed response to explain his stance. 
In summary,  it appeared he thought it was a waste of time talking to staff from MSFS 
throughout the complaint.  He repeated  he now accepts the credit  card account belongs  to 
him. He underlined that it was not financial difficulties that had prevented him from making  
the necessary  payments to his account. He also repeated  that he did not think  MSFS had 
dealt with the matter  appropriately. He made a suggestion about  how the financial settlement 
of £6,000+ that he was proposing could be dealt  with. He told us what he would do with a 
financial settlement if it was awarded  to him. He made mention of a credit reference  agency 
but he said he had dealt with his matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see that Mr A has made  a number of detailed points in support of his complaint. I have 
read and considered everything that both Mr A and MSFS have sent to this service. I hope  
the fact that I do not respond  in similar detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. As an 
informal dispute resolution service, our role is to reach a fair and reasonable conclusion with 
Ref: DRN23968722the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond to every point 
made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
I can also see that Mr A feels very strongly  about  his complaint. I dont underestimate the 
strength of his feelings but it seems  to me Mr As complaint boils down to whether MSFS has 
done more wrong  than failing to respond  appropriately  to his initial letters  of complaint. If yes 
has it offered him enough to make  up for what it has done wrong.
I realise there was a mismatch between the level of customer service Mr A wanted and that 
which MSFS was prepared to offer. It accepts as I have already mentioned that it should 
have dealt better with Mr As initial letters. There were  a number of different MSFS 
employees contacting  Mr A at any one time by letter and by phone.  Some of the letters were 
personalised some appear to be standard letters. From the information I have available to 
me, it does  seem  that some of those  individuals who sent the letters were not aware  of what  
the others were saying.  I can see how that may have been frustrating for Mr A. 
That said some of this correspondence  came after Mr A had accepted the account  was his 
but still chose  not to make the payments that he was required  to make.  That was his choice 
to make,  but it could have cut down  on the number of letters he received from MSFS if he 
had made  those payments. The arrears were mounting up and situation  was only going to 
get worse if he continued not making the repayments. In the circumstances, I think it was 
reasonable for MSFS to remind Mr A of the situation and his obligations to pay. 
Taking all of this into account,  I think in the circumstances, the £100 he has already received 
goes far enough  to recognise the distress and inconvenience it is likely that these  actions by 
MSFS caused him to experience.
However, Mr A did make it clear,  more than once, that he wanted to be contacted in writing  
only. Despite this MSFS continued to call him. I dont agree that was appropriate. It should 
have respected  Mr As clearly expressed  communication preferences. After all it was not as 
if Mr A was refusing to respond to its letters so it was obliged  to try other means  of getting in 
touch. For these reasons  I think it is fair and reasonable  that MSFS ought to make a further 
payment for this of £100 for the distress and inconvenience it is likely it caused to Mr A.
Mr A has told us about the impact MSFSs collection activities had on him. Ive seen the 
collection letters that MSFS  sent to Mr A. They  used  professional  language and set out the 
factual situation  as it saw it. The letters explained the steps  that MSFS might take if the 
arrears on the account were not paid off. I have already said, I dont think that Mr A should 
have been called after he said he didnt want telephone contact. But it does not seem the 
language used in the calls themselves was inappropriate or calculated to make him think  he 
was acting unlawfully. Rather he had some difficulties  understanding some of the callers and 
also he lost confidence  in them.
Whilst I appreciate Mr A objected to the collection activity, I also have to bear in mind that it 
was appropriate  for MSFS to tell him clearly  what steps it is possible it will take if the arrears 
are not paid off. In all the circumstances, I dont agree  that it is fair and reasonable to say 
that MSFS acted incorrectly here.
Mr A has made a suggestion about  how much he thinks MSFS ought  to pay him. When 
talking about how he has calculated the size of the award he says he wants, he, at various 
times, has mentioned  different criteria.  For example  he has talked about the hourly  rate he 
Ref: DRN23968723used to earn in his former profession and the amount he spends  on a yearly  basis  at the 
supermarkets which are part of the same family of companies as MSFS. 
However, it now seems he has based the size of the award he asks for on a desire  to 
ensure that the Bank changes its system of dealing with complaints But I think the amounts  
he has already been  offered by MSFS and which I have awarded go far enough. Plus in any 
event, I do not have the power to impose  a financial penalty on MSFS to encourage or make  
it change its systems. 
Mr A has also suggested how the award  could be dealt with while the complaint is looked at. 
His proposal is something that might be appropriate where a court  case  is in the offing but 
this service is not a court.
MSFS had told Mr A that it intended  to register information about how he managed his 
account with credit reference agencies. Businesses are obliged  to register accurate  
information with credit reference agencies. I dont see it did anything wrong in telling him 
about its intentions.
my final decision
My final decision is that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc should pay Mr A £100 for 
distress and inconvenience in addition to the £100  it tells us it has already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.  
 
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2396872