K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr G was sold the policy in 1992  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint and Ill explain why:
Lloyds has sent us a copy of the original application form for the credit card. I can see it is 
the type of application  that Mr G would have completed himself and then returned by post.  
And Mr G has confirmed  this is how he applied for the card.
Mr G has told us he only requested the PPI because he thought  the credit application was 
more likely to be accepted if PPI was included.
I can see the application form contains a section entitled Optional Features. Within this 
section is the option  to add PPI to the account. This section reads, To protect  your access 
repayments against accident, death, sickness and involuntary unemployment,  please  tick 
here. Ive not seen anything on the application to imply  that the application was more likely 
to be accepted if the box was ticked. And I can see other options  have  not been taken up. 
For instance the option to pay by direct debit  was declined  and a separate policy to protect 
against card theft was not taken up. 
From what  Ive seen I think its most  likely  Mr G was made aware the PPI was optional  and 
that he chose  to take it. Although bearing in mind the form was completed over 25 years ago 
I can understand if Mr G cant recall this.
Despite the application being  made  by post Lloyds has told us it would have advised Mr G to 
take out the PPI. That being  the case Lloyds had a duty to ensure it was right for him. And 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time I think  it was. I say this for the 
following reasons:-
Mr G was working and seems to have  been  eligible for the policy. So he could benefit from 
the cover  it gave him.
Mr G wasnt affected by any of the main  things the policy didnt cover.  For example he didnt 
have any medical  conditions that had already been  diagnosed and wouldnt be covered.
The policy couldve  paid a benefit  for up to 12 months if Mr G became too ill to work or lost 
his job. Mr G has told us hed get some sick pay from his employer, but this PPI policy could 
have paid a benefit in addition to, and for much longer than any sick pay would last. And it 
Ref: DRN20303772would also pay a benefit if he lost his job. So Mr G wouldve found the policy  useful if things 
went wrong.
Mr G has told us he had some  savings in place for a rainy  day, but the PPI would mean he 
didnt have to use those funds towards paying  his credit card, so theyd be available to cover  
other living costs if he became unable to work.
Mr G has told us he had another insurance policy in place but after so long it is 
understandable hes not been able to give us details of this. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr G about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But it looks like Mr G was interested in this type of cover,  and from what  Ive seen it 
seems suitable given his circumstances. So I dont  think  any better information wouldve 
stopped him buying it.
I realise Mr G has told us his health  was good and he rarely  if ever took time off sick. But the 
purpose of insurance  is to protect against future, unforeseen risks. 
In summary  I think Lloyds made Mr G aware of the PPI policy and that it was optional.           
I think it most likely  Mr G chose to take it out. The policy seems  to have been suitable for him 
and even if Lloyds  had given Mr G all the clear information about the policy  that it should 
have, I still think Mr G wouldve bought it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. And I make no award  
against Lloyds  Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2030377