K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about his interest only mortgage  with UCB Home  Loans Corporation Ltd 
(UCB). Hes unhappy with UCBs actions at the end of the term.
background
In 1990, Mr R took out an interest only mortgage  with UCB for £32,000 over a term of 
23 years.  He took out the mortgage jointly with his now ex-partner, with whom  he says he 
hasnt had contact  for several years.
The mortgage term ended in 2013. Mr R was receiving support in paying the mortgage from 
the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP), but from 2010  onwards this wasnt enough to 
cover the full contractual monthly  payment. Mr R had previously made some overpayments, 
so the mortgage was in credit. UCB  used this credit in addition to the DWP payments to 
make up the full monthly payment  for some  time.   But the overpayment balance  was used up 
by October 2013 and as Mr R didnt make any payments to top up the DWP payments, 
arrears started to accrue  on the mortgage  from that date.
UCB instructed solicitors to start court action in November 2017.
Mr R complained to UCB in January  2018  about the following:
Although hed been made aware of the arrears  by a field agent, he hadnt been made 
aware that the mortgage term had ended.
He hadnt  been offered a term extension  or a new interest rate product to reduce  the 
CMP and bring  it under  the amount being paid by the DWP.
Hed been given  conflicting information about  the amount he needed to pay to clear 
the arrears balance and prevent the court hearing.
Hed been told by an advice charity that he could look at re-mortgaging with his 
children as guarantors, which they had checked  with UCBs parent company only to 
be told this wasnt possible.
UCB said it had considered a term extension for Mr R in March  2017, but it couldnt agree 
one as it hadnt thought  it was affordable based  on the information Mr R had provided   
especially as the mortgage had been  in arrears. It also said that it wouldnt be able to offer a 
term extension without  his ex-wifes consent.  It said it hadnt had any requests from Mr R for 
a term extension or new interest rate product,  prior to the end of the term, and it wouldnt 
usually offer interest rates once the term had ended.
UCB said it could see Mr R had been given conflicting information about  the arrears  balance, 
but thought this had been  resolved fairly quickly. It apologised  for the contents of a call on 
17 January 2018  and offered Mr R £100  for the trouble and upset  caused.
In March 2018, the court adjourned  possession  proceedings  for three months  as long as 
Mr R paid £13,000 towards the mortgage balance by the end of the month  and continued to 
make interest payments. Mr R made  the lump sum payment, but didnt make  any further 
monthly payments.
The court issued a possession  order in June 2018, but UCB agreed to hold further action 
until September 2018 to allow Mr R time to arrange  to repay the balance.  Mr R brought his 
complaint to us in August  2018.
Ref: DRN26035772Mr R repaid the balance,  apart from around £600, in November 2018.  The possession  order  
was set aside  in January 2019  and the mortgage has now been  redeemed.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint. She found that UCB had acted reasonably,  
and didnt recommend it do anything further  to resolve the complaint. Mr R disagreed with 
her findings,  and his complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R says that UCB should have told him that the payments from the DWP had reduced, 
and were no longer  covering the full monthly  payments. UCB has provided  a copy of a letter 
from 2010 which explained that the DWP payments werent enough  to cover the payments. 
Even if he didnt receive this letter I think the deficit would have become clear  to Mr R from 
his annual mortgage statements. In any case,  it would  be for Mr R to speak with the DWP 
about the amount it was paying  towards  the mortgage if he thought it wasnt  correct, and it 
was his responsibility to maintain his full monthly mortgage payments. I think  UCB took 
reasonable steps to make  sure Mr R was aware  of his mortgage balance  and the monthly 
payments he had to make.
Mr R says he didnt know about the end of the term. I think UCB  made  it clear  to him  when  
the mortgage was taken  out and in the annual statements   and Ive not seen any evidence  
supporting the suggestion  that he was told by UCB  that he could carry on living in the 
property for the rest of his life.
Following the end of the mortgage term in 2013,  UCB has provided copies of 
correspondence it sent to Mr R, along  with its contact  notes  which show it made multiple 
attempts to call him. These  letters were  sent to the correct address. Post does go astray 
from time to time, but thats a rare event, and I think its very unlikely that Mr R didnt receive  
any of this correspondence.
UCB has also provided copies of notes from visits by field agents  in March 2014  and May 
2016, both of which state that the term end was discussed.
Mr R says he only recalls one visit by a field agent, which  he thinks occurred in 2016. He 
says he recalls discussing the arrears, but that no mention  was made  that the mortgage term 
has ended.
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that both the visits occurred, and that the end of 
term was discussed  with Mr R. And in any case, I think  UCB  had made  reasonable attempts 
to contact Mr R about the status of the mortgage and I think  Mr R reasonably should have 
been aware of that the term had ended and that arrears were accruing. 
When the mortgage term ended in 2013,  the full balance of the capital was due. UCB  is 
entitled to expect those funds to be repaid, though  I would expect it to speak with Mr R about 
his circumstances  and give him time, if necessary, to finalise any plans to get the capital 
repaid. Overall, I think UCB made  a fair effort to do this in this case. 
Ref: DRN26035773Mr R has complained about the interest  rate on his mortgage. I can see this was UCBs 
standard variable  rate (SVR), which is the interest rate his mortgage reverted to once his 
previous interest  rate expired. I cant see that Mr R requested  a new interest rate product 
prior to raising the complaint in January 2018.
By then, Mr Rs mortgage was five years past the end of the term, and UCB  was taking 
action to recover the balance. He was in arrears on his monthly payments as well. So I dont 
think it was unreasonable that it didnt want to offer Mr R a new interest rate at that time. 
Taking everything into account,  I think UCB  has acted fairly in the interest rate it applied  to 
Mr Rs mortgage.
Ive also thought about whether UCB gave Mr Rs request for a term extension  in 
March 2017 fair and reasonable  consideration. Mr R took out the mortgage jointly  with his 
ex-partner, so both he and his ex-partner were jointly and severally liable for the debt. But he 
said he hadnt had contact with her for several  years  and I cant  see UCB had either. 
Agreeing a term extension would have locked Mr Rs ex-partner into the debt for longer. I 
think it was reasonable  for UCB to say that it wanted her consent  before agreeing  to that. I 
do understand why this might have been  difficult for Mr R, but UCB has to be fair to both 
borrowers. The alternative would have been  to remove her from the mortgage   but that 
would generally  need her agreement too, and UCB would likely then need to consider 
whether Mr R could afford the mortgage  on his own.
When UCB looked into his income  and expenditure, I can see that it found he didnt have 
enough income to meet  the mortgage  and all his expenses  and, given the mortgage was in 
arrears, I dont  think it was unreasonable that UCB refused Mr Rs request for a term 
extension.
Overall, I think UCB have acted reasonably here. I say this because I dont think  it would 
have been in Mr Rs best interests  to extend the term or remove his ex-partner from the 
mortgage, as it was clear  that the monthly  payment wasnt affordable for him. And UCB 
didnt have her consent  to do that either.
UCB started  legal action  in November 2017. I think this was a reasonable step for it to take 
at that point. The mortgage term had ended over four years previously, and Mr R had not 
given UCB  any concrete  plans for repaying the capital,  and hadnt  made  any payments to 
the mortgage himself  for several years.
I appreciate that by that time Mr R was looking into his options, such as an equity release 
mortgage or having his children act as guarantors.  But those plans were in the early stages 
 it doesnt seem he was able to give any specific timeframes to UCB.  I understand  that his 
representative spoke  with a UCB representative  about the possibility of a guarantor 
mortgage. I cant be certain of the exact content of that conversation,  but neither  UCB nor its 
parent company offer guarantor mortgages.  I cant reasonably  hold UCB  responsible  for 
information given  to Mr R by the charity. Even if UCB or its parents representative gave the 
impression that this was a possibility,  I think UCB  clarified the position with Mr R within a 
reasonable period of time.
UCB acknowledges that Mr R received conflicting information about the amount he needed  
to pay to clear the arrears. Ive considered this, but regardless of the arrears, the mortgage 
term had ended and the full balance  was due. So I dont think this had any impact on UCBs  
decision to continue with legal action. As Ive said, Mr R had been unable to give UCB any 
concrete plan or timeframe to get the full mortgage balance repaid. On balance, I think  it was 
Ref: DRN26035774reasonable for UCB  to continue with court action, and I think its offer of £100 is a fair way for 
it to apologise  for any trouble and upset  caused to Mr R.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2603577