K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the changes Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) made to its 
overdraft pricing structure in November 2017. They say that the decision to increase their 
cost of the facility  was unfair.
Background
In August  2017,  Lloyds wrote to its customers to explain that it would be moving from a 
pricing structure based on an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) to a daily charge of 1p per 
every full £7 per day. Mr and Mrs S complained about this in 2018. 
Lloyds didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs S complaint. It said it was entitled  to change  its pricing 
structure and while  this meant some customers might end up paying more, it had transitional  
arrangements in place to mitigate this. Mr and Mrs S remained dissatisfied and referred their 
complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr and Mrs S concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had 
done anything  wrong or treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs S disagreed and so the complaint was passed  to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further,  I want to be clear in saying that I havent  considered  whether the
amount Lloyds charged was fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs  
of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for services  is a commercial 
decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
I know that Mr and Mrs S have referred to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  having  
told banks to change  the way overdrafts  are priced. The FCA as part of its 2018 and 2019 
High cost credit: overdrafts review,  did go on to conclude that APRs were the simplest and 
most transparent way of displaying the cost of an overdraft  especially in terms of 
comparing the cost between banks and to other  forms of credit.  But the new rules which 
followed the review  only came into force in April 2020. 
A requirement for a bank  to display the APR of an overdraft wasnt  in place prior to this and 
the new requirement wasnt retrospective  either. So I dont  think  Lloyds failure to display an 
APR as part of its November 2017 changes  meant  that it did something wrong at this time. 
Mr and Mrs S say that they got in contact  with Lloyds in August 2017 to voice  their concerns 
about the proposed changes. And this means that they didnt accept the changes to the 
terms of conditions. But the key thing here is that Lloyds  simply had to provide notice of the 
change and as Mr and Mrs S received Lloyds notification, Im satisfied that Lloyds met its 
obligations here. I do acknowledge that Mr and Mrs S sent text messages to someone at 
Lloyds. But I dont know they were received by someone with the authority to deal with 
matters. In any event, it looks like Mr and Mrs S did start discussing a loan with Lloyds by 
the time pricing  structure changed in November 2017.
Ref: DRN27083912I understand that there was a delay in Mr and Mrs S being offered a loan by Lloyds. But     
Mr and Mrs S ended up turning down  this loan because they were unhappy Lloyds made  
permanently removing their overdraft a condition of granting the loan. I can understand why                    
Mr and Mrs S may have been  unhappy  with this and why they may have wanted  to keep 
their overdraft. 
But as Lloyds had an obligation to ensure that any further borrowing could be sustainably 
repaid by Mr and Mrs S, I dont think Lloyds insistence that the overdraft be removed once 
any loan was provided was unreasonable. This is especially as Mr and Mrs S say they would 
have relied on equity in their property to clear the overdraft and crucially a lender is required 
to assess whether a prospective borrower  could  repay what they would owe without  having  
to realise security or assets.  
As Mr and Mrs S chose not to accept these  conditions  and, in any event, repaid the overdraft 
with funds from elsewhere, I dont think that it was unfair for Lloyds to have added the 
charges it did. In my view,  what had gone on meant that, Lloyds was reasonably entitled to 
believe Mr and Mrs S could  exit their overdraft if they wanted to. 
So overall and having thought about  everything, I dont  think  that Lloyds implemented the 
overdraft pricing changes in a way that treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly. And as the terms and 
conditions, as well as the relevant rules and regulations in place at the time,  permitted 
Lloyds to make these changes in the first place,  it follows Im not upholding Mr and Mrs S 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2708391