K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs H says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2001.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mrs H owed  on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mrs H couldnt  work because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or became unemployed.  The policy also provided  life cover 
as well as price and purchase  protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs H that the policy  was optional and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Mrs H says the PPI wasnt mentioned  to her and she 
wasnt told it was being added to her account.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed by Mrs H at the time of the sale 
and I can see that there is a section to apply for Account Cover  the name  used by FICL  
for PPI. In this section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover. 
Mrs H has signed the section to confirm she wanted  the cover. If Mrs H didnt want to take 
out the PPI she could  have left this section  blank. And Mrs H has signed  the overall 
application form which suggests it reflected what she wanted.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Mrs H 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
Both parties  agree that FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H. So it didnt have to check if 
the policy was right for her. But FICL  did need  to make sure it gave Mrs H clear  enough  
information about the policy to enable her to decide for herself if she should take the policy.  
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs H 
Ref: DRN25907272was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  a medical condition of which she was already  aware.
Mrs H has said that as she was self-employed, this policy wouldnt have been of any use to 
her. Ive looked  at the policy and the terms say that if you are self-employed,  in order to 
make a claim for unemployment your business  must;
    have stopped trading  and/or be in the process  of being wound up; or
    be put into the hands of an insolvency practitioner; or
    be a partnership which has been  or is in the process of being  dissolved.
Based on these terms, I dont think it would be any more  difficult for Mrs H to make a claim 
than she would have  expected  all that was required was for her business  to have stopped 
trading. So, I think the policy could  still have been useful to her, even when taking into 
account the savings she has told us she would  have had.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think Mrs H has lost out as a 
result of anything FICL  may have  done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2590727