K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Scottish Widows Unit Trust Managers Limited (the business) is unable  
to locate his investment.
background
Mr S still holds  an accumulation unit certificate (certificate) dated  1990 so believes that the 
investment should  still be in place. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Although the business has no record and is unable to confirm what  happened to the 
investment, its likely it was surrendered in 1998. 
As the investment was made before 1998  its unlikely to have much information if at 
all. 
Although Mr S still holds a certificate  this isnt sufficient to show that the investment is 
still in force. And theres no evidence on the system  showing this investment still 
exists.
Without any evidence  to show that the investment existed after 1998, its difficult for 
her to ask the business to do anything. 
Although it was possible for the business to locate the investment for another  
customer it wasnt possible to do this for Mr S. This doesnt  mean  its done  anything 
wrong.
Although Mr S is frustrated by the lack of documentary  evidence, the business isnt 
required to retain  documentation  in relation to an investment indefinitely.  
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view.  In summary, he said:
When the holding  certificate was changed  to his name in1990 by Lloyds bank, Mr S 
signed the documentation,  as instructed  so it could be sent to the correct  department.
The certificate in his possession clearly says No sale or transfer of any units  
comprised in the certificate  will be recognised without  the production of the certificate 
to the Managers Lloyds Bank  Unit Trust Managers  Its therefore  not possible that 
the holdings have been surrendered.  
Although the investment was made prior to 1998, hes lived at his address for over 40 
years and received  no correspondence to say the share certificate is no longer valid.
The business wouldve had a duty of care to its customers to communicate if the 
share certificate was no longer  valid. 
Any system  change  should ensure it was done properly. 
The evidence would suggest his certificate is current  and valid. Its not for him to 
prove to the contrary.
He feels the suggestion  that he mightve  surrendered the investment and now be 
complaining offensive  to his character. 
The business simply cant  write off these  monies  and hide behind  system change.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
Ref: DRN24697822my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr S says, Im unable to say that 
the business has behaved unreasonably.  
In other  words, on balance Im unable to say that the investment still exists or that the 
business has done anything wrong by not being  able to tell Mr S exactly what  happened to 
the investment.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ss strength of feeling about  this matter. 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr S and the business,  and reach what I think 
is an independent,  fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
Im not suggesting that Mr Ss submissions  are anything other than what  he believes to be 
the truth, but its possible that the investment was surrendered  anytime between 1990 and 
1998 (but likely around 1998) and hes forgotten about it.
I note the business says in 1998, all of the Lloyds TSB and Scottish Widows Trusts 
dematerialised, meaning it moved  to a model where the unit register  maintained  by the 
trustees became  the exclusive evidence of title of a unit trust holding. As a result the 
certificate was no longer  required  and ceased to be evidence of title to any unit holding.  And 
prior to this it also moved  to a model  where  the certificate wasnt needed to surrender these 
investments. 
Even if what Mr S says is correct  that his investment still exists  with a value of around 
£3,000 and that the business  is trying  to write off these monies because it hasnt kept an 
accurate record  I would  still need evidence to reach this conclusion. And unfortunately for 
Mr S, the available evidence doesnt  allow me to reach this conclusion. In other  words,  
despite what Mr S says, Ive no supporting evidence that this was the case. 
On balance I think it was possible  to surrender the investment without the certificate.  Or 
even if it was used  to surrender the investment theres nothing  to say that it wasnt retained  
afterwards.   
Ref: DRN24697823I appreciate theres  little if any information  that shows precisely  whats happened to the 
investment. But businesses arent required  to retain  information indefinitely,  particularly  if an 
investment was surrendered some 20 years  ago and is no longer live. 
Im mindful of the points Mr S makes  about the possible communication  failure following the 
certificate being sent to him by Lloyds in 1990, which I note was the result of a transfer  of 
shares from his late son. But theres  simply no record  of it now.  
The business has even  been able to locate evidence from 1996  when Lloyds  merged with 
TSB  and of the investments held in the names  of Mr Ss other two sons which transferred 
on to the system in November 1998.  But it has nothing in relation to this investment which 
suggests it was more likely than not surrendered at or around that time. 
I appreciate Mr S will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business  to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what  
he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2469782