K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained about the service he received from Dean Finance (trading as 
Braehead Mortgages and referred  to here as Dean) and its adviser  (Mr W) when he was 
arranging a mortgage and a commercial  transaction.
background
In late 2017 Mr M engaged the services of Dean in relation to arranging a re-mortgage for 
him. He dealt with Mr W, who Dean describes as a self-employed consultant  working out of 
its office. 
Mr W, on behalf of Dean,  obtained a decision in principle from a high street bank  for the 
mortgage Mr M wanted. At this point Mr M paid £495 to Dean for its services.  The terms of 
service said that there would be no refund  of this fee if all information requested wasnt  
supplied once an application had been issued,  or if the mortgage offer has been issued but 
not accepted.  Separately, Mr M also paid £3,000 to Mr W in relation  to a commercial  
transaction
The application didnt  proceed at this stage. Dean says it is because  confirmation of income 
was not provided  by Mr M. The bank cancelled the application,  before it could  proceed  to 
any underwriting or assessment.
In August  2018  a decision in principle was obtained  from a building  society. An application  
was made  and a valuation  was carried out. There was no mortgage offer issued  Emails  from 
the building  society  show that it was waiting  for Mr Ms accountants certificate.  As this 
wasnt received, the building society cancelled  the application.
On 5 March 2019 Mr M contacted us to complain. He wanted his money back as he was 
unhappy with the service  hed been  given by Dean. 
It was several months before Dean  provided us with its file. After doing  so, an investigator 
looked at the complaint. He noted Mr W had already  reimbursed £1,400 to Mr M for the 
commercial transaction.  The investigator  thought Dean should pay the remaining £1,600  to 
Mr M, and to pay £200 for any inconvenience  caused. The investigator didnt think Dean 
needed to reimburse  the £495, as this was for services it had provided.
Dean agreed to pay the £200 compensation for trouble and upset but said that the 
commercial transaction  was nothing to do with it but was something arranged  between Mr M 
and Mr W. Dean said it understood Mr W had agreed to reimburse remaining £1,600 directly 
to Mr M. 
Mr M said that Mr W had recently contacted him to find out his new address so he could give 
him the money  in cash. But Mr M was reluctant to do this. He wanted a bank transfer.
provisional decision
On 3 March 2020 I issued  a provisional decision in which I made the following findings.
Dean accepts it provided mortgage  advice  to Mr M, in line with the terms of service  
for which a fee of £495 was charged. This fee is not refundable in accordance with 
the terms I outlined  above. The applications  to the lenders were cancelled  because 
Ref: DRN20950162the evidence suggests information  wasnt provided  by Mr M. So Im satisfied  no 
refund of the £495 is due.
As far as the payment of £3,000 is concerned, I note that this was in relation to a 
separate commercial  transaction  on which Mr W was giving Mr M advice. There is no 
documentation about this, but this transaction doesnt appear to be connected with 
the mortgage advice.
We can consider a complaint against  Dean  in relation to the regulated  activity  of 
giving mortgage  advice. So the complaint about  the service it provided to Mr M in 
respect of the mortgage applications to the bank and the building society is covered 
under our rules.
But we cant  consider a complaint against Dean in relation to advice given by Mr W in 
his capacity as a consultant in respect  of a commercial transaction.  Thats not a 
regulated activity and so its not covered under our rules. This means that I dont 
have any power to order Dean to reimburse Mr M for the £1,600 outstanding from the 
£3,000 he paid Mr W.
I note that Dean has said that Mr W has agreed to reimburse this money  to Mr M  
and Mr M has told us that Mr W has asked for his address so he can pay him in cash. 
Mr M doesnt want to do this, as hed prefer a bank transfer. Thats something hell 
need to sort out directly with Mr W. Because this commercial transaction  isnt 
covered by our rules, Im unable to comment any further on it here.
As far as the mortgage advice is concerned, neither  application proceeded to an 
offer. There is limited documentation  available, but Im satisfied from the building 
societys email  that this was due to Mr M not providing his accountants certificate. In 
the circumstances, I dont think Dean did anything wrong.
Its unfortunate that Dean has not been as co-operative as it should have been  in 
dealing with the complaint  or complying  with our requests  for information. Deans 
agreed to pay compensation of £200  for poor service in this respect,  which I think  is 
fair.
My provisional conclusions were:
the complaint  about the outstanding balance of £1,600 owed to Mr M by Mr W in 
relation to a commercial  transaction doesnt fall within the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and so I cant consider it; 
in relation to the complaint about the mortgage advice, Dean Finance (trading as 
Braehead Mortgages)  must pay Mr M compensation of £200  for trouble and upset as 
a result of poor customer service.
responses to the provisional  decision
Dean accepted my provisional decision. Mr M didnt  agree and has provided further 
documents, which he says shows the remortgage  and the commercial funding  were 
connected. Ill comment on this below.
Ref: DRN20950163my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reviewed the file again and revisited 
my provisional decision. Ive looked at the additional documents Mr M has provided. Having 
done so, I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions reached  in my provisional decision.
The documents Mr M has provided show that the application for commercial funding  was to 
be in the name of a limited company, of which Mr M was a director.  The company has now 
been dissolved and no longer exists.  
As I said in my provisional decision,  our rules dont allow  us to consider a complaint against 
a broker in relation  to advice about commercial  loans. 
But even if the rules did allow us to consider complaints  about  advice given on commercial 
loans (which they dont), its clear from the documents that the transaction  was to be in the 
name of Mr Ms company  not Mr M as an individual.  
A limited company is a separate legal entity from its directors.  We can consider complaints 
from limited companies about activities that are covered  under  our rules, but only if the 
company still exists. What  this means for Mr M is that his complaint about the commercial 
loan isnt something we can look at because:
the activity hes complaining  about   advice from a mortgage broker about a 
commercial loan  isnt covered by our rules;  and
the limited company  that would have  been party to the loan (and so the only party  
which could have  brought a complaint to us about it, if it had been covered by our 
rules) no longer exists.
So this doesnt  change my conclusions reached in the provisional decision that the advice 
about the commercial  loan is not covered by our rules. This means we cant  consider it.
As far as the residential mortgage application is concerned,  Ive seen the documents  Mr M 
has sent us. I note an email from the building society confirming that Mr M cancelled the 
mortgage application. This is after the date when the building  society said it would cancel. As 
this was Mr Ms choice not to go ahead,  I can see no reason why he wouldnt be liable for 
Deans fees. Nor does  it persuade me that the application didnt go ahead  due to anything 
Dean did, or didnt do.
Overall, Im satisfied that Deans offer to pay compensation of £200  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  I think  this is proportionate and fair in all the circumstances.
As I said in my provisional decision,  any refund of the fee paid to Mr W for the commercial  
funding is something  the Financial Ombudsman  Service cant get involved with. Mr M will 
need to sort this out directly  with Mr W.
my final decision
My final decision is:
Ref: DRN20950164the complaint  about the outstanding balance of £1,600 owed to Mr M (or Mr Ms limited 
company) by Mr W in relation to a commercial transaction doesnt  fall within the rules  of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service and so I cant consider it; 
in relation to the complaint about the mortgage advice, Dean Finance (trading as 
Braehead Mortgages)  must pay Mr M compensation of £200  for trouble and upset as a 
result of poor customer service.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2095016