K822xcomplaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the increases in premiums on her home  insurance  with 
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited (Lloyds).
background 
Mrs Ws home insurance policy  with Lloyds started  in July 2006  and cost £770.94 for the 
year.
By July 2011, Mrs Ws home  insurance renewal cost around £1,300.
On 27 July 2011 (around the time of the renewal)  Mrs W obtained a separate  online quote 
with Lloyds for a home insurance policy which was to cost £217.23. This policy  didnt include 
accidental damage  for either buildings insurance or contents  insurance.
Shortly after obtaining this quote,  Mrs W contacted  Lloyds regarding  her home insurance 
policy renewal. 
Following her conversation with Lloyds, Mrs Ws existing policy was cancelled,  and she was 
given new insurance  for buildings  and contents.  It was made  up of two separate  policies and 
the combined cost was £663.50 for the year. These policies  included accidental damage  for 
both buildings  insurance and contents  insurance.
Mrs W didnt engage with the cost of her policy again until 2017.  In 2017 Mrs W obtained  
another online quote for home insurance for a house  that she was intending to move  into. 
Her quote for the new property came  in at £285.35.  This led to Mrs W obtaining another  
online quote for her current  property  which came in at around £270. As Mrs Ws insurance 
policy in 2016  cost over £1,000 she complained to Lloyds about the amount she had paid in 
premiums on her policy from 2006 up until 2017.  Mrs W thought she hadnt been treated 
fairly by Lloyds.
Lloyds in its response to Mrs W said that it had sent renewal quotes each year which set out 
the cost. And it was for Mrs W to review and decide  whether she wanted to continue with the 
insurance. It also explained that the newer  quote Mrs W had received was for an alternative 
policy it provided which was different. Lloyds explained this alternative policy allowed for 
consumers to select and choose various  options regarding the cover. Lloyds also explained 
that this alternative  policy had only became available in June 2016 and any consumers 
taking this policy would have benefited  from an introductory discount, so it wasnt  right to say 
this price was available to Mrs W in the previous  years. So Lloyds didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. 
But Lloyds did offer to apply  a loyalty discount to reduce  Mrs Ws monthly  buildings 
insurance and contents  insurance premiums. 
Unhappy with Lloyds  response Mrs W referred the matter to our service. 
While the complaint was with our service, Lloyds offered  to refund some of the cost of the 
insurance. It offered  Mrs W £584.57. It also explained it would include additional 
compensation set at 8% simple interest per year  to compensate Mrs W for being  out of 
pocket of that money. 
Ref: DRN27808902And finally, it also offered  an additional £200  as compensation  for the trouble Mrs W had 
been caused.  
Our adjudicator thought the offer was a fair way to resolve things.
As Mrs W disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been  resolved, its been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether Lloyds has treated Mrs W fairly  throughout  the period she held her 
insurance policy. 
If I find that Lloyds hasnt treated Mrs W fairly, I will look to see what compensation would be 
fair and, in this case, whether I think what Lloyds has offered is fair.
When Mrs W took out her policy in 2006,  it cost £770.94 for the year.  I understand there was 
an introductory discount. This isnt uncommon and policies may well initially  be priced lower 
to attract  new customers. I dont think its unfair for an insurer to seek to recoup that cost 
over the subsequent years.
By 2011, Mrs Ws policy had gone  up in cost. But Mrs W renewed  her policy  in 2011 
switching her policy to two separate policies (one for buildings  and one for contents) bringing 
the cost down to £663.50.  While  the cost was more than the online quote Mrs W had 
obtained in 2011 (for £217.23) I note it provided a different level of cover. The cover Mrs W 
ended up agreeing to (which  was after she had obtained the cheaper quote) included  
accidental damage  for buildings  and contents  which, on the other policy  quote  she had 
obtained online, wasnt included. And Im also mindful that this means Mrs W was aware at 
this point that she could get different cover at different levels  and at a different cost.  But 
Mrs W ultimately chose  the buildings and contents insurance policies that cost a combined 
total of £663.50.  So it appears  Mrs W was happy  with the cover provided and the cost at this 
time.
The new policies (one for buildings  and one for contents) Mrs W took out in 2011  also came  
with an introductory  discount which Lloyds recouped over the next years. 
But it appears that after Mrs W had changed her policy in 2011, she didnt further engage  
with Lloyds about the renewal quotes  she was given, and her premium  continued to increase 
each year. 
If Lloyds should  have realised Mrs W wasnt the type of person  who shopped around for 
cheaper insurance regularly, and it increased  the price  just because Mrs W didnt  engage at 
renewal, that wouldnt be fair. 
Ref: DRN27808903But Lloyds has now offered to refund some of the costs of the insurance premiums Mrs W 
paid  its offered  £584.57 . It has also offered Mrs W additional  compensation for her being 
out of pocket (which  will be set at 8% simple interest  per year) and £200  for the trouble  
caused. 
So Ive looked  to see whether I think what it has offered is fair.
Mrs W thinks that her compensation should be a lot higher.  And thats because of the recent 
quotes obtained. Mrs W suggests that if her insurance should have been around £300  per 
year then she has been overcharged  by £7,000  over the years  she held the policy.
But the new insurance quotes  obtained would have included a new customer discount. As I 
have explained  above, this is common practice  and I think  its fair that an insurer  recoups 
that discount over the subsequent years.  I dont think its fair to expect an insurer to maintain 
that discount for the duration someone  has their policy.  
So it wouldnt be fair for Lloyds to use the quotes Mrs W obtained when working out its offer.  
And Mrs W, in working out what she thinks her compensation  should be, has also taken into 
account the policys whole duration. I dont think thats quite right,  Ill explain  why. 
In those earlier years of the policy (first in 2006 and then again in 2011), Lloyds was 
recouping the initial  discount applied to the policy/policies. Also, Lloyds wouldnt have  known 
in the early years each  time Mrs W held her policy that she wasnt  the type of person  to shop 
around for cheaper  insurance. That wouldnt have become  apparent for some  years.  With 
the policy taken  in 2006, Mrs W did engage  and ended  up taking a new policy  in 2011. Given 
this, I cant say that Lloyds had unfairly  increased  the price  at renewal, just because Mrs W 
didnt engage,  in the early  years. 
So I wouldnt  expect Lloyds to be paying  back some of the cost of the insurance from the 
start of the policy as Mrs W thinks should happen. Im also mindful that Mrs W agreed to the 
insurance cost when she took out the insurance  at the outset  in 2006 and then again in 
2011.
In light of what Ive said above, and having considered Lloyds offer,  I think  its fair. It makes 
sure Mrs W hasnt lost out if Lloyds did increase the price just because  she didnt engage at 
each renewal in the later years she held the second policy.
I also think Lloyds additional  compensation offer of £200, for the trouble caused to Mrs W, 
throughout her complaint is fair.
Ref: DRN27808904my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds offer to refund some 
of the costs of Mrs Ws policy is fair.
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited should also calculate the additional  compensation 
(set at 8% simple interest per year) owed to Mrs W for being  out of pocket of that money.
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limiteds additional  compensation  offer of £200 for the 
trouble caused  to Mrs W is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2780890