K821x#15complaint
Ms R complains about the short term loans she took out with CashEuroNet UK LLC trading 
as QuickQuid. Ms R says that she suffered a significant deterioration in her financial 
situation as a result of QuickQuids irresponsible lending. She says it shouldve  made 
proportionate checks and it wouldve seen she was reliant on payday loans and not lent to 
her. 
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. QuickQuid disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Ms Rs complaint should be partly  upheld. A 
copy of the background to the complaint  and my provisional findings, are attached and form 
part of this final decision. 
QuickQuid, and Ms R, received my provisional  decision. Ms R didnt have anything to add. 
QuickQuid, didnt agree with my provisional  decision. It said that: 
Ms R repaid loan 1 early. This good repayment history  meant  that it didnt need to 
make further checks before approving  loan 2 
it was reasonable  to rely on the information  it had before approving loan 2, and this 
showed that the loan was affordable 
It provided some new information  about  Ms Rs recorded expenditure 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I accept  that Ms R repaid loan 1 without  issue I dont think its reasonable to assume 
from this that her financial situation  had improved. In fact, as I said in my earlier decision, 
she borrowed very soon  after this loan was repaid, and the amount she borrowed increased. 
I think this indicates  that Ms R mayve been  having  financial problems.  
And so I still dont think it was reasonable for QuickQuid to approve loan 2 on the basis that 
Ms R could put money aside on the first two repayments to make the third higher  one. 
QuickQuid has provided some new information about Ms Rs expenditure. It said that shortly 
after loan 1 started,  around five days later, Ms R provided much  lower expenditure figures. 
As far as I can see this contradicts the information QuickQuid provided earlier.  
But, to be fair, Ive assumed that Ms R did provide this information. This was a reduction in 
her expenditure by almost £1,000 from the earlier amounts. I dont think this was realistic, 
particularly over a five day period, and I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for 
QuickQuid to rely on it (if it did). So as a starting point QuickQuid shouldve made some 
further checks to verify this information.  
Having looked  at some of the information Ms R has provided I dont think QuickQuid 
wouldve found that the lower expenditure information was accurate. In fact Ms Rs general  
Ref: DRN20294992expenditure looks to be closer to the earlier amounts she provided. And her expenditure on 
other creditors, and short  term lenders, was much higher than she declared. 
So I still dont think that Ms R could afford the repayments to loans 2 and 2a and so I dont 
think QuickQuid shouldve  approved them. 
what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
To put things right for Ms R, QuickQuid should:
refund all the interest and charges applied as a result  of loans 2 and 2a; and
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Rs credit  file about these loans;
If Ms R still owes QuickQuid any of the principal  balance she borrowed, QuickQuid should 
remove all the interest  and charges applied to the outstanding balance. QuickQuid should 
then re-work the account as if all payments made by Ms R went to towards the principal.  But 
importantly, QuickQuid needs to make  sure that Ms R doesnt repay more than the principal  
amount borrowed.  
If Ms R has already paid enough to repay the principal then any overpayment  should be 
refunded to her with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement*.
And if QuickQuid no longer owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to any 
outstanding balance that may be owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt 
entitled to make any deductions  for it from the amount it needs to pay Ms R.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Ms R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Miss Rs complaint. CashEuroNet  UK LLC 
should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20294993extract from my provisional  decision
Ms R took out two loans between January  2017 and February 2017.  Ms R took out a top-up on loans  
2. This is where she borrowed further funds under the same agreement, before paying back the initial 
amount borrowed. Some of the information QuickQuid has given us is shown in the table below:
loan number date startedamount 
borrowed (£)term 
(days)number of 
repaymentsdate ended
1 20/01/2017 400 91 3 09/02/2017
2 26/02/2017 500 89
2a 28/02/2017 300 873 outstanding
QuickQuid has looked at Ms Rs complaint  and said that it shouldnt  be upheld. It said that it did 
appropriate checks for all of the loans. And these checks showed that the lending was affordable 
based on Ms Rs declared monthly income. It also said that it didnt think  Miss R was dependent on 
short term lending  and she didnt notify it of any financial  hardship.
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Rs complaint  and recommended that QuickQuid refund the interest and 
charges that she paid on both loans. QuickQuid didnt agree with this recommendation and so the 
case has come to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to partially uphold Ms Rs complaint. Having reviewed the 
evidence I have available,  I think QuickQuid was wrong  to have  given Ms R loan 2. But Im not 
currently persuaded that I should uphold  Miss Rs complaint about  loan 1. Ill explain why.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at what Ms R and QuickQuid  said. She thought Ms Rs complaint 
should be partially  upheld. She thought  that QuickQuid had made proportionate checks  for all of the 
lending. But she thought that the information QuickQuid obtained shouldve  shown it that these loans  
werent affordable  for Ms R. 
QuickQuid didnt comment  on our adjudicators findings about the proportionality of its checks  or the 
affordability of the loans,  nor did it provide any new information for me to consider. It responded  to our 
adjudication saying:
Thank you for your response. Unfortunately, we are unable to agree  that the Ms Rs disposable 
income for the entire loan terms should not be considered. At the time the FCA was reviewing our 
lending practices, we detailed how we consider the affordability  of our loans, including the 
consideration of the disposable income for the loan term rather than just the largest  repayment. The 
FCA subsequently authorized CashEuroNet  UK to continue with our lending  practices  without 
disputing our method of considering affordability in this manner
QuickQuid first mentioned  this argument in its business  submissions  to us in which  it said:
We started implementing changes  to affordability assessment in June 2014 and all the changes 
were completed by 28 February 2015. Starting 01 March 2015 before Ms Rs borrowed her loans, 
QuickQuid had implemented an affordability review that is consistent  with the FCA Handbook and that 
was in place at the time we received authorisation by the FCA. We confirm that this assessment was 
conducted properly  and individually  for each of these loans
Ref: DRN20294994It provided further detail about the checks it had made  when it approved  loans from 2015 onwards in 
a document called CEU Lending Criteria and Proportional Checks. And this response didnt change  
our adjudicators opinion.
This Service has responded to QuickQuid on this generic argument  directly and through earlier final 
decisions. So I am not going  to expand on this point any further here, though I have considered  it 
alongside everything else in making my decision. 
I would remind QuickQuid at this point of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance in how 
complaints are to be dealt  with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular  DISP 
1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively  applied 
in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination  by the Ombudsman to the individuals  in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman  concerning complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals 
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance  produced by the FCA, other relevant regulators and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals  dealing with complaints in the 
respondent. 
My decision  will focus on the specifics of Ms Rs complaint and what both parties have said about  this.
The FCA was the regulator  at the time Ms R borrowed the loans in question. Bearing  in mind the rules  
and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC), I would expect a lenders affordability assessment to vary with circumstance. (I am not 
quoting the specific regulations here because, as before, I would expect QuickQuid to be conversant 
with these  through previous  ombudsman decisions, particularly recent decisions, which  set these  out 
in detail.) 
In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id expect  a 
lender to seek more  assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income; or
-the longer the lending relationship.
Turning to the specifics  of Ms Rs complaint,
QuickQuid says: 
it recorded Ms Rs monthly income  as £1,800 before it approved loan 1, and £1,950 before it 
approved loan 2
it recorded her monthly expenditure  as £1,475 before approving both loans
it validated the other credit commitments part of the information  Ms R had provided, using 
credit reference  agency  data
it used  the information it had gained from the credit  reports to adjust the amounts Ms R had 
provided to calculate  what it called her estimated disposable  income
my provisional  findings  for loan 1
Ive carefully thought about  what  QuickQuid and Ms R have provided  and what  both sides have said.  
Ref: DRN20294995For loan 1 Ms R needed  to make two smaller monthly repayments of around £100 followed by a 
larger repayment of around £500.  In total she needed to repay just under £700  over the three month 
term of the loan. 
Ive seen a record of the information Ms R provided when she completed her loan application.  This 
information (which is outlined above)  showed or suggested  she had a monthly disposable  income of 
£325. This means she had around £975 to make the loan repayments over the three month term of 
the loan. 
I can see that the final repayment to the loan is higher than the amount of disposable income Ms R 
wouldve had that month. But Ms R had confirmed at the time of sale that she would be able to put 
money aside  from the earlier loan repayments  to be able to afford  this higher one. And it was 
reasonable for QuickQuid,  at this early point in the lending relationship, to assume that she would be 
able to do this. So I dont agree that the information QuickQuid had showed  that the loan was 
unaffordable. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely QuickQuid was made  aware  of any financial 
problems Ms R mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate  her 
circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for QuickQuid to rely on the information it 
obtained. So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment QuickQuid did for loan 1 was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to approve this loan was reasonable.
my provisional  findings  for loans  2 and 2a
Ms R took loan 2, for £500,  a few weeks after she had repaid loan 1. She borrowed a higher amount 
and she increased this loan a few days after starting it. This took the total loan amount up to £800.  
The structure  of this loan is similar to loan 1. But the highest final repayment was over £600 before it 
was increased  and over £900 after the increase. 
I think  QuickQuid shouldve seen from the information that it did obtain that these loans werent 
affordable. Just before loan 2, Ms Rs monthly recorded disposable income had increased a little to 
£425. Again the highest  repayment in month 3 was higher than the amount she had left over when 
her normal expenditure is taken from her income. So Ms R would  need to put money aside from the 
first two lower repayments  to be able to afford this. 
But I dont think it was now reasonable to assume she was able to do this. This is because she took 
loan 2 a very short time after she repaid loan 1. So its more likely the high repayment to loan one left 
a gap in her finances and she needed to borrow  again to replace this. 
And when  Ms R increased the loan, the highest repayment increased to significantly more than her 
disposable income.  I dont see how she would be able to have been able to afford  these  repayments, 
or that she could put money aside. 
So I dont think Ms R could afford  to make the repayments to loans 2 and 2a. I think QuickQuid should  
have seen this from the information it had and not lent to Ms R. 
Ref: DRN2029499