K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Ms K complain  that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc wont  offer them the same interest 
rate for their additional borrowing as it offers to new mortgage customers. They  ask that 
Bank of Ireland  offers them  the lower rate.
background
Mr G and Ms K took out a mortgage  with Bank of Ireland in 2016.  They  agreed  a five year 
fixed rate product which ends in 2021. In early 2019 they applied for additional borrowing for 
home improvements. Bank of Ireland offered the additional  loan,  but Mr G and Ms K are 
unhappy with the interest  rate it offered. They  want  Bank of Ireland to offer them the lower 
rate available to new applicants.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said Bank of 
Ireland is entitled  to set the rates and terms on which it offers to lend. He said it wasnt  unfair 
for Bank of Ireland  to offer Mr G and Ms K its existing  customer  rate. Mr G and Ms K had the 
benefit of the new customer  rate when they took out the mortgage. 
Mr G and Ms K didnt agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Bank of Ireland  is entitled to make  a commercial decision about the terms on which it lends. 
Mr G and Ms K applied for a further advance.  Bank of Ireland sent us information about  its 
further advance  product  range. It offered Mr G and Ms K a further advance with a product 
from its further advance  range.  I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for it to offer this.
Bank of Ireland  has a different range of products available to new customers. I understand 
that Mr G and Ms K would  prefer a product with a lower interest rate. But I cant  reasonably 
require Bank  of Ireland to offer this to them.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2363382