K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy, in respect of a home  insurance claim for water  damage, with AXA 
Insurance UK Plc saying  that damage  to a bath in the course of accessing  a leak,  is a 
separate claim, and with the settlement offered  to him.
background
In December 2018 Mr O noticed that water was leaking from behind his bath. He and his son 
removed the bath panel to get at the valve behind the bath to turn the water  off. He put the 
bath panel in the bath,  but this unfortunately damaged the bath,  making a hole in it. 
Mr O made  a claim to AXA in respect  of the damage caused by the water. He was told that 
he would  have to make a separate claim for the bath since this wasnt damaged by the steps  
taken to stop the leak. Mr O said he had to remove the bath panel  and the only place to put it 
was in the bath,  it was done in an emergency.
Mr O submitted a quote for repairs. Apart  from the bath it noted  that Mr O was remodelling  
his bathroom - it would  only offer payment for the costs directly associated  with the escape 
of water.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that AXAs response was reasonable.
Mr O didnt agree. He pointed out that if he hadnt  removed the bath panel the water damage  
would have been a good deal more. He also said that his remodelling of the bathroom costs  
the same  as if he had reinstated  it as before.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
damage to the bath
The policy allows  for for necessary and reasonable  costs that you incur  in tracing and
accessing the source of the damage to the home . Theres no dispute that Mr O had to 
remove the bath panel to access  the leak. But he didnt need  to put it in the bath, and if he 
felt he had to, the subsequent damage to the bath was accidental and not a necessary result 
of accessing the source of the leak.
So I think it is fair to say that this should  be the subject of a separate  claim.
cost of the claim
AXA has offered  a payment of £1,350. less the £350 excess. This allows  for the removal and 
refit of the bath,  shower  screen and bath panel,  and repairs to the kitchen ceiling and the 
downstairs wallpaper.  Mr Os plumbers estimate  of £2,045 includes the cost of replacing the 
bath with a walk in shower. AXA has said it will only reinstate on a like for like basis and not 
the costs of remodelling the bathroom.
Mr O says the cost of a shower would be the same as the costs of replacing the bath with a 
new one. But the cost of a new bath hasnt been  allowed  for, as Ive said Mr O will have to 
Ref: DRN22768432make a separate claim  for that. AXAs offer sets out what  it assesses are the reasonable 
costs of repairing  the damage  to the areas affected by the leak. I think  that is fair and 
reasonable.
If Mr O wants to make a claim for the damage  to the bath he should get in touch with AXA 
directly.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2276843