K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the amount of compensation  offered to him by TSB Bank plc following 
the IT issues it had last year.  
background
At the end of April 2018, TSB experienced some IT problems which  meant Mr M couldnt  use 
his online  banking app as he normally would. He told us this meant  he couldnt transfer 
money to his partner  and pay his bills as he usually would. Mr M spent long periods away  
from home, so not being able to transfer money to his partner and young  family when he 
needed to caused him stress  and anxiety. Mr M also said TSBs telephone banking  service 
was very busy at the time,  so he experienced long waiting times when he tried to use this 
service instead. 
Mr M complained to our service and an investigator  looked into his complaint. She thought  
TSB should pay Mr M £300  compensation for the trouble and upset  hed been  caused. Mr M 
didnt think this was enough.  
The matter  was considered further  by another investigator. She also thought £300 was a fair 
amount to compensate Mr M for whatd happened. TSB accepted this but Mr M didnt. As an 
agreement couldnt  be reached,  the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigators. Ill explain why.
Mr M has said he didnt lose out financially because of what  happened  with TSBs IT 
systems. But it also isnt disputed that he was impacted by the on-going  IT problems it 
experienced  not being able to transfer  money to his young family as and when  he needed 
to must have been very stressful  for him. As such,  the main  thing I need to consider here is 
whether it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct TSB to pay Mr M more than the 
£300 it has already  offered to compensate him for the trouble, upset and stress this caused  
him.   
As Ive said,  I dont doubt that not being able to rely on and use his TSB on-line banking app 
wouldve been stressful  and inconvenient for Mr M  especially given that he works away  
from home and couldnt transfer money  to his partner when they needed  to. And I appreciate 
that it can be uncomfortable to have to rely on family members transferring funds instead   
as Mr M eventually  had to do.
But I cant ignore  there  wouldve been some other TSB services  Mr M couldve used to 
transfer money outside of the TSB mobile  banking app. Mr M couldve used TSBs  online or 
telephone banking service. I appreciate that these services wouldnt have been  Mr Ms first 
choice and they may well have  been less convenient, especially given there wouldve been 
increased demand for these services due to the issues  TSB were facing. But regardless,  the 
services were available  to Mr M. 
Ref: DRN20813862Mr M has said the reason  he didnt  use his online banking facility was because he couldnt 
remember his password to log-in. I appreciate that it would have been inconvenient  for Mr M 
to go through  the process of re-setting his password;  especially  given  his app shouldve 
been working. But I dont think it wouldve been unreasonable for Mr M to contact TSB and 
reset his password so he could access his account and transfer money  to his partner online 
 especially  considering the urgency of the payments he was making.  
Mr M has also told us he was reluctant  to use TSBs  telephone  banking service as the 
waiting times  were too long. Again, I dont doubt  that the waiting times wouldve been 
considerable at the time. But this option  was available.
Overall I dont think TSBs IT issues made  it impossible for Mr M to transfer  money to his 
partner and young family. But they did make it much  more difficult, time-consuming and 
inconvenient to do so. So the question I need  to ask myself is whether £300  would be a fair 
amount of compensation for TSB to pay Mr M given he couldnt  use his mobile  banking  app, 
wouldve experienced long waiting times to use TSBs telephone banking  or to have gone to 
the trouble of re-setting his password. And if he decided these werent options for him, the 
trouble of having to rely on family members. I think it is. 
I should stress that we are not here to punish financial businesses. Our role is to put 
consumers in the position they wouldve been  in had nothing gone wrong. Mr M didnt lose 
out financially  but the situation was inconvenient and stressful for him. And, whilst it isnt 
possible to give someone back  their time or take away  upset caused,  I consider an award of 
£300 fairly reflects the trouble and upset Mr M has experienced  in these particular 
circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think the offer made by TSB Bank plc is fair. And I wont be 
asking TSB Bank plc to do anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2081386