K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Hargreaves  Lansdown Asset Management Limited  (Hargreaves) misled  him to 
buy shares in Flybe  Plc (Flybe) shortly before its sale and the devaluation of its shares; he 
says the sequence of events after his purchase  was (or should have been) foreseeable to 
Hargreaves, as was the loss he would subsequently  incur.
background
Mr W paid a total of around £9,500 for the shares. He bought them over a short period of 
time before Flybe was sold  he made purchases  in January and February  2019  at prices 
between 1.5391 pence per share  and 3.99 pence  per share.  By the time the sale of Flybe 
was concluded,  in March 2019, and the share price was reduced to 1 pence per share  his 
shares were  worth  around half of what he invested. He seeks  compensation for the loss.
He says he was induced to make  the investment by the research he conducted into positive 
indications illustrated in the statistics and information he obtained  from Hargreaves website.
At the crux of his complaint, Mr W says Hargreaves was not transparent  about  the 
foreseeable devaluation  of the shares at the time he bought  them; that its website displayed 
information which suggested an expected share  price, thereafter, of up to 30 pence per 
share, whereas  after the sale of Flybe the shares  were devalued, as was foreseeable to 
Hargreaves, to 1 pence per share.  He also considers it unethical  for Hargreaves to have 
continued to sell the shares  in such circumstances.
Hargreaves disputes the allegations. It explained  to Mr W that Flybes shares were not 
delisted in anticipation of its potential  sale, they continued to be traded and they were in 
trade (on the market) when he made his purchases   hence the reason why it continued to 
allow its customers to trade in them. It highlights that it provided an execution only share 
trading account  service,  which  is what Mr W had, so it was neither obliged to give him advice 
nor did it give him such advice. It was Mr Ws responsibility to make his own informed 
investment decisions  and to conduct  any research related to that. 
With regards to information on its website, Hargreaves says it was generic information that 
was shared with and accessible by all of its customers, and that its terms and online data 
policy expressly provided that such information should not be relied  upon, that Hargreaves 
holds no responsibility  for its accuracy,  completeness or for any result of its use.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be upheld  
 for the same reasons  given by Hargreaves. He commented that news  about Flybes  
position and prospects was in the public domain at the time and he has identified evidence  
which showed its share price was also volatile between January and February 2019 for that 
reason. He did not consider it wrong  for Hargreaves to allow trading in the shares, given  that 
the shares were  still being traded in the market at the time. He also referred  to specific terms 
for the account  which confirmed the execution  only (non-advisory) account  service and 
confirmed that information  provided on Hargreaves website  was for general information  
purposes only and did not constitute investment advice.
Mr W retained his views and considered that the matter should  be brought to the attention  of 
the relevant regulators (with  regards  to share dealing  and the sale of Flybe).  The investigator 
sign-posted him in this respect. His complaint  was then referred  to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN28640922my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions expressed  by the investigator for the same reasons he gave. I adopt those 
reasons and present my treatment below in addition.
In straightforward terms, Mr W retained sole responsibility for his share purchases at each 
point he bought them. Hargreaves terms confirm that his account was based on a non-
advisory service and I have not seen evidence of advice having been  given by Hargreaves 
directly to him.
I have considered his point  about the website information. It can sometimes  be the case  that 
a firms provision  of investment information  carries with it the force  of an investment 
recommendation and arguably becomes a form of investment advice. I am not persuaded 
that this was the case in Mr Ws complaint. 
The information he has referred to does not appear to have carried  such  force and, by his 
own description, he broadly regarded it as statistics and information . It appears that the 
information he refers  to was on the website but was not an article  authored  by Hargreaves 
and, overall, it took the form of asset facts and news. I appreciate  that it was Mr Ws 
perception that the information  indicated merits of buying the shares but that appears  to 
have been a perception  he created independently.  Furthermore, I consider that the terms 
and policy  related to the website information made clear that such information did not 
constitute investment  advice and should  not be used as a basis for investment decisions.
Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that there  is a ground to uphold  Mr Ws 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision 
before 26 April 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2864092