K820x#14complaint
Ms A through her solicitor B complains  that Legal & General  Partnership  Services  Limited 
(L & G) mis-sold her a mortgage, through an appointed representative that was part of its 
network, by telling her that the only option  available was interest only and by advising her to 
consolidate her unsecured debts under the mortgage. She wants compensation.
background
Ms A took out a mortgage in 2006.  She said that it had been mis-sold as Ms A said L & G 
had advised her that the only option  available to her was an interest  only mortgage and had 
advised her about  her debts. Ms A consolidated her debts with the new mortgage (paid off 
unsecured debts using money borrowed under a mortgage). She said as a result of this 
advice, shed paid more interest as it took her longer  to repay  the consolidated debts.
B complained to L & G. It said when Ms A spoke to the adviser, she had an existing 
repayment mortgage with a variable  interest rate of 6.59% and several  unsecured debts; 
Ms A had also reached  her overdraft limit. The mortgage it recommended charged 4.79%, 
and debt consolidation was recommended as Ms A was overspending  to repay all her debts 
by £254 a month. After the remortgage,  she was due to have £75 surplus a month, while  if 
she hadnt consolidated, she still wouldve been overspending. The consolidation put Ms A 
on a sustainable  course according  to L & G. It also noted that the mortgage taken out met 
Ms As needs; while other mortgages mightve  been  cheaper, they didnt have the feature 
she wanted. The complaint wasnt upheld.
B complained to us. The investigators  view was that the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  She 
said that the facts  set out in the various  client reviews in 2006  were recorded correctly  and 
contained similar information. The investigator  noted that Ms A signed all the pages of the 
suitability letter of 15 August 2006  (which replaced an earlier  one), which suggested  that the 
contents were correct. She said that the information recorded showed Ms A was in debt and 
spending more  than she earned, while the mortgage  recommended was much cheaper than 
the previous one. 
The investigator didnt  think that Ms A was financially  worse  off due to the consolidation of 
debt, particularly when  it was noted  some  of the loans  charged a rate of 24%. The 
investigator noted that Ms A wasnt making  payments towards her credit cards or overdraft 
due to her financial  difficulties and thought that if they hadnt  been consolidated, she still 
wouldve struggled. The evidence suggested  she wanted to pay one affordable  amount to 
deal with her loans, and the adviser had searched for appropriate products before making a 
recommendation in the investigators  opinion.
B disagreed. It wanted more analysis of the comparative costs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is to say what I think  is fair and 
reasonable, not answer specific questions. I also have to ensure my decision is appropriate 
for publication and doesnt identify Ms A.
Ref: DRN24393132Mortgage type
Ms A has said that she was advised her only option was an interest only mortgage. But the 
product she took out was a repayment mortgage.  And I can see that throughout she said she 
wanted a repayment mortgage and she was advised on that basis. I cant find that Ms A was 
advised her only option  was an interest only mortgage as the facts dont support that view.
Timing
B has suggested that the evidence from L & G mightnt be reliable as there are print outs of 
the mortgage documents from 2008.  Having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied that Ms A 
was advised and took out her mortgage  in 2006, not 2008. The timings appear to be that she 
was first advised on 25 July 2006 (confirmed in the demands and needs letter)  and three  
days later there was a review which led to product information being  supplied and a choice 
made. An application to the lender was made  on 29 July 2006, but after this happened,  the 
lender changed the product and added more fees. This caused  the advice to be changed 
and new product was selected in early August. 
After the mortgage  offer was issued  on 10 August  2006, the adviser produced a new 
suitability letter to reflect  the current position, and this was accepted  and signed by Ms A on 
24 August 2006.  The mortgage  completed shortly  afterwards. There is nothing inherently 
suspicious in this timeline and its supported by the evidence  from L & G. Lenders do 
withdraw and amend  products, and this can cause changes to the application and the 
suitability of whats been recommended. But its the product recommended in early August 
2006 that Ms A took out and its this product  that was considered  in the second mortgage 
suitability letter that she accepted on 24 August. Just because the suitability letter  followed 
the mortgage offer, it doesnt follow that it isnt reliable and isnt a fair reflection of the advice 
given to Ms A. She accepted that advice  before  taking out the mortgage, and thats what is 
crucial.
Suitability
Looking at the whole situation,  I think the advice given was suitable and the mortgage wasnt 
mis-sold. Ms A had a variable interest rate mortgage that was comparatively expensive. The 
mortgage recommended  meant Ms A gave her £75 disposable income a month,  when 
previously shed been spending more  than she earned. The client review and suitability 
advice shows that affordability was considered.  Ms A reduced  the interest rate for her 
mortgage by following  the advice given.  I note that Ms A signed the advice where  she was 
told that there were  cheaper products available, but the flexibility  of the mortgage she took 
out was attractive  to her. And I think if the information was incorrect,  its unlikely Ms A 
wouldve signed the suitability letter (or the other letters wanting to progress the application).
Without consolidating her debts, she wouldve continued to overspend  and Ms A wasnt  
managing to make payments to some of her loans. I think  its likely that without the 
consolidation, Ms A wouldve  continued to struggle as the repayments wouldve been more  
than her projected surplus income calculated when  consolidation was undertaken (in other  
words, it wouldve cost more than £75 a month  to repay and the difference  in the lower  
mortgage payments  that would result from borrowing  less wasnt  likely to be sufficient to 
make up the shortfall). 
Ref: DRN24393133I note that some smaller debts were also allegedly consolidated, but the money borrowed 
was given to Ms A to deal with according  to the completion statement notes. Ms A was 
warned by L & Gs adviser  that debt consolidation was likely to mean that she paid more 
interest in the long run. Again, Ms A signed  the advice where she was told this, and it 
appears that there was earlier advice given on 1 August 2006;  I think  its more likely  than not 
this advice was given then as well as it was standard advice. And I note that some  of the 
unsecured loans had a relatively high interest rate, while Ms A appeared to be struggling to 
pay the credit card and overdraft debts.
The considerable difference in the interest rate charged under the original loan and the new 
mortgage, even  allowing  the extra time added to repay all the debt, combined with the 
resolution of the overspend issue justified the inclusion of the debts if Ms A wanted to do 
that. The point  is that she was told about  the risk, and chose to go ahead.  Consumers are 
perfectly entitled to make  choices, provided theyve  been advised correctly.  The evidence  
shows that Ms As position was fully considered and appropriate advice  given. Ms A was put 
in a position to make one payment to deal with her loans  and benefit  from disposable  
income.
Looking at all the evidence available to me, I think the new mortgage met Ms As needs  and 
wasnt mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept  or reject my decision before
 8 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2439313