K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Mortgage Hut Ltd mis-sold them  a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy to cover their mortgage in 2006.
Background
Mr and Mrs S applied  for a mortgage  and, at the same time, Mortgage Hut sold them PPI to 
protect their mortgage repayments. The PPI paid a monthly benefit  if either  of them  couldnt  
work due to disablement or unemployment.  
I gather  this was a single  premium PPI policy. So the cost (£2,700) was added to the amount 
borrowed and to be repaid over the term of the mortgage. The PPI provided cover  for the 
first 36 months of the mortgage  term. 
Our adjudicator believed  the PPI had been  mis-sold and recommended that the complaint be 
upheld. Mortgage  Hut didnt tell us whether  it agreed or disagreed, so the case was passed 
to me to review afresh. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs S case.
I make  no finding on the issue of whether  Mortgage  Hut recommended the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs S. Thats because  I believe the complaint should be upheld  even if no recommendation 
was made.  Ill explain  why.
If Mortgage Hut sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs S without giving advice, it still had to give them 
enough information to allow them to make  up their own minds about whether the PPI was 
right for them. The information had to be clear, fair and not misleading. I dont think it did 
that. I say that because, for example, I cant see that Mr and Mrs S were told the overall cost 
of the PPI over the term of the mortgage (if the mortgage was to run to term) or how much 
extra they stood  to pay in interest for the PPI over that period.   
The interest alone would have been  a significant amount, given Mr and Mrs S had entered  
into a long-term financial  commitment. In the circumstances I think  the missing  informations 
significant enough to have  affected  their decision to take the PPI. 
Overall, I believe Mr and Mrs S have lost out because of how Mortgage Hut sold them the 
PPI and that it should put things right for them.
Putting things  right
Mr and Mrs S borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their mortgage was bigger than it should  
have been. They paid more than they should have each  month  and it cost them  more  to 
repay the mortgage than it would have. So Mr and Mrs S needs to get back  the extra  theyve 
paid.
So, Mortgage Hut should:
Ref: DRN23230862Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs S the difference between what they paid each month on 
the mortgage and what they would have paid without PPI.  
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs S the difference between what it cost to pay off the 
mortgage and what it would have cost to pay off the mortgage without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs S paid from when they paid it until 
they get it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Mortgage Hut can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Mortgage  Hut to take off tax from this interest. Mortgage 
Hut must give Mr and Mrs S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold the complaint. I require Mortgage Hut Ltd to 
put things right for Mr and Mrs S as explained  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 February  2020. 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2323086