K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains about poor repairs made  by Aviva Insurance Limiteds building  contractors 
following her claim  under  her buildings  insurance  policy. 
background
Ms H suffered a fire at her home.  Aviva  accepted  her claim and appointed contractors to do 
the repairs, but Ms H said they didn't carry out the work properly. She said her guttering  and 
drains have been  blocked  and she is also unhappy with the roof tiles. Ms H said the 
contractors have done poor quality work  using  poor quality materials.  She said she was in a 
hotel for a month  before the work started. 
Avivas surveyor  said an independent  roofer reported that there were no leaks from Ms Hs 
gutter, but the downpipe wouldnt drain indicating that the soakaway was blocked.  The report  
said a tile was missing but this was unrelated to the claim. Avivas  surveyor  said these 
issues didnt fall under  Ms Hs claim,  but she could make a new claim if she wished. 
Aviva said that it didnt agree with Ms Hs complaint  and its up to her to substantiate her loss 
by sending a detailed contractors report and photographic evidence of the damage,  which  
Aviva would review. Ms H said the contractors moved tiles as part of their repairs  and new 
tiles had been fitted. She said the downpipe is blocked with debris  from the fire. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said Aviva inspected  
the damage but felt this wasn't related to the fire. The report  said that 'silt and dirt' was 
responsible for the water not draining away, not debris from the fire. He said from the 
evidence the problems with the blocked  drain and guttering are unrelated  to the fire and so 
the work  Ms H requires  isnt covered by her policy.
Ms H disagreed saying  the investigator  hadnt  investigated the complaint fairly and she 
requested an ombudsman review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes reports and photos  from 
both parties.
Ms H thinks  that further repairs  are needed  to her roof tiles and guttering as part of her 
claim, but Aviva said this wasnt  related  to the fire. Ive looked  carefully  at Avivas handling of 
Ms Hs claim  to see if it has treated her fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of her 
policy.
When the parties to a claim  disagree about the repairs  required,  we have to be guided by the 
available evidence in reaching a decision. In this case  there are professional reports  from 
Avivas surveyor  and a roofing contractor who inspected Ms Hs roof. Unfortunately  Ms H 
hasnt responded  to Avivas suggestion  that she obtain her own expert  report  which  it would 
then consider. This means there is only expert  evidence is in support of Avivas assertion 
that the issues to which  Ms H has referred are unrelated to her claim  for fire damage.
Ref: DRN20267222Avivas surveyors  and roofing contractors  reports state that no leaks were found and the 
latter report  stated that water wasn't  draining from the guttering due to it being  blocked by 
dirt. The reports and photos from both parties indicate that the issues to which  Ms H refers 
are unrelated to her claim for fire damage. Ms Hs policy states  that she can only claim for 
damage that is caused by an insured event, in this case, the fire. Unfortunately for her this 
means Aviva isn't responsible for damage  that occurred before the fire took place.
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Aviva to provide Ms H with alternative  accommodation  
though I can understand her frustration at the disruption this caused. I dont think it would be 
fair to require Aviva to make further repairs or pay Ms H compensation as I think it has 
handled her claim fairly and reached  reasonable decisions about  it. It remains open to Ms H 
to obtain her own professional report about the issues she has raised.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2026722