K822xcomplaint
Mr C has said that CL&P (an unregulated  introducer)  advised  him to move  two pensions to a 
SIPP and then make  two investments - Store  First and GAS Verdant.  He thinks this advice 
was unsuitable.
Mr C believes  that if Options SIPP UK LLP had carried out adequate due diligence on CL&P, 
it would  not have accepted the instructions.  This is because  it should have been aware of 
the warning on the Financial Services Authority (FSA) website about Terence Wright, who 
was a director of CL&P.
Options SIPP UK LLP was until recently known as Carey.  Ill refer to it as Carey throughout 
this decision, as that was its name  at the time of the events in question.
background 
Carey  
Carey is a SIPP provider  and administrator, regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Carey is authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange (bring  about) deals in 
investments, deal in investments as principal,  establish, operate  or wind up a pension 
scheme and make arrangements with a view to transactions  in investments. 
CL&P 
CL&P was an unregulated business based in Spain. Mr C says he was cold-called  by CL&P, 
and told he could get a much  better  return on his pensions if he transferred them to a SIPP  
and invested in Store First and GAS  Verdant.  
One of the directors  of CL&P was a Terence Wright. On 15 October 2010, the following was 
published on the Financial Services Authority (FSA),  website:  
ALERT
The Financial Services Authority (FSA)  has today published this statement in order  to warn  
investors against dealing with unauthorised firms. 
The purpose of this statement is to advise members  of the public that an individual 
Terence  (Terry)  Wright
is not authorised  under  the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) to carry on a 
regulated activity in the UK. Regulated activities include, amongst other things,  advising  on 
investments. The FSA believes that the individual  may be targeting UK customers via the 
firm Cash In Your Pension.
Investors should be aware that the Financial Ombudsman Service  and the Financial  
Services Compensation Scheme are not available if you deal with an unauthorised 
company or individual. 
To find out whether a company or individual is authorised go to our Register of authorised 
firms and individuals at http://www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do
Ref: DRN28294372the relationship  between CL&P and Carey 
Carey was approached  by CL&P in 2011  and entered into discussions about  accepting 
introductions from it. Carey says it carried out some due diligence on CL&P  at this time. It 
says it reviewed CL&P's profile,  conducted  searches,  reviewed CL&Ps  website and 
literature and had conversations  with CL&Ps representatives over the telephone. 
Carey began to accept introductions from CL&P on 15 August 2011. A non-regulated 
introducer profile was completed by CL&P on 29 September 2011. It was signed by a 
Terence Wright, and confirmed the following:
CL&P was a Spanish firm, and was trading from a Spanish address.
It used an 0845  telephone number.
It had been  trading  for two years, and had two directors  Terence Wright and Lesley 
Wright.
It had eight agents, and promoted four investments  Store First,  Verdant  Australian 
Farmland, and two other  unregulated investments.
It worked with four other  SIPP operators. 
Its source of business was referrals  and web enquiries. 
Its sales process involved  a call and follow up emails.It took 2-5%  commission,  and 
this was the source of its earnings. 
Its staff had been given training and it had worked with various  compliance officers. 
Carey had a conference call with representatives  of CL&P  on 9 December 2011. During that 
call the issue of consumers being offered cash incentives by CL&P  to transfer to a SIPP and 
make investments was raised plus concern about  final salary scheme transfers. The note of 
the call included the following: 
Concern was raised at a recent AMPS  [Association of Member-Directed  Pension  Schemes] 
conference regarding Final Salary Transfers to SIPPs, the need for clients to take advice, 
the fact that ordinarily you would not expect more than 5% of FSTVs to be execution  only 
and these would only be relevant for suitably qualified individuals such as IFAs, Brokers, 
Investment Professionals. [Carey staff member] explained the matters raised at the 
conference. Discussed with CLP because some 30% of the business received into Careys 
from them is in relation to FS transfers which previously have been  processed with member  
declarations. All agreed that in future  cases of FS Transfers would be referred  to suitably 
qualified IFAs for relevant  advice and copy of that advice would be provided  to Careys for file 
records. 
[Carey staff member] also raised a concern that a potential member  had asked when they 
would receive their money from their Store  First Investment,  [CL&P representatives] 
confirmed that no clients or connected  parties  referred by CL&P  receive any form of 
inducement for either establishing  the SIPP or making the Store First Investment and that 
CL&P policy does not include  offering  inducements.
Ref: DRN28294373[Carey staff member] emphasised that it is completely  against  all rules that clients  or 
connected parties receive any form of inducement for making particular  investments .
An agreement between Carey and CL&P was signed in March  2012. This was back-dated to 
August 2011.  Carey  says this was done to cover  all the investments that had been  
introduced to it by CL&P.  
Carey terminated its agreement with CL&P on 25 May 2012. It says the basis  for this was 
Carey again becoming  aware that CL&P was offering consumers cash  incentives for 
transferring to a Carey  SIPP  and making  investments.  It says this came to light when 
consumers contacted it to ask when the money  would be paid.
Store First
The Store First investment took the form of one or more self storage units,  which were part 
of a larger storage  facility  in a UK location. Investors  bought  one or more  units  in the facility,  
and were offered  a guaranteed level of income  for a set period of time. After that, they could 
either take whatever income the unit(s) provided,  or sell them  (assuming there was a market 
for them). 
Store First was the subject of a winding up petition issued by the Business Secretary in 
2017. Action relating to that is ongoing, and investors have  recently been offered the 
opportunity to transfer their investment to a newly-created  freehold company,  for nil 
consideration. I understand the investment has no realisable value. 
GAS Verdant
The Verdant  Australian Farmland investment took the form of a land purchase contract 
which involved a company based  in Cyprus (GAS Global Agricultural Services  Ltd) leasing 
plots of agricultural land in Australia to investors. Crops were  to be planted on the plots, and 
the objective was to provide an income to investors through  the sale of those crops and 
capital growth through the sale of the plot of land after an eight year period.  
Mr Cs dealings with CL&P  and Carey
Mr C had a personal pension and a deferred final salary pension.  He  says he was cold 
called by CL&P and advised to move  his existing pensions to a Carey SIPP in order to invest 
in Store First and GAS Verdant. 
On 10 November 2011, Mr C signed Careys SIPP application form. On 14 November
2011, Carey received Mr Cs signed  letter of authority. The letter confirms that Carey was 
able to liaise directly  with CL&P regarding his pension affairs.   A welcome letter  was issued  
to Mr C on 15 November 2011.
Mr C went on to sign the member declaration and indemnity for his Store  First investment on 
21 January 2012.  At the same time he signed the member declaration and indemnity for his 
Gas Verdant investment.  
The funds were invested in GAS Verdant on 25 January 2012 and in Store  First on 3 
February 2012. 
Ref: DRN28294374For each of these  investments Mr C signed a member declaration  which confirmed that he 
knew the investments  were speculative/high risk.  The  key sections of this declaration 
include:
I am fully aware that this investment is an Alternative Investment and as such  is High Risk 
and / or Speculative.  
As the member of the pension  scheme  I can confirm that neither I nor any person connected 
to me is receiving a monetary or other inducement for transacting this investment.
I confirm that I have taken my own advice including financial, investment and tax advice in 
respect of this investment.
Careys position  
In its submission to us Carey said, in summary:  
Carey does not (and is not permitted to) provide any advice to clients  in relation to 
the establishment of a SIPP, transfers  in or the underlying investments, nor does it 
comment in any way on the suitability of a SIPP, the transfers in and investments for 
an individuals circumstances. It did not advise, nor purport  to advise,  Mr C.
Carey acts as the administrator only of Mr Cs SIPP. Mr C opened  his SIPP  and went  
on to invest on an execution only (i.e. non-advised) basis and this was made very 
clear in communications with him, the documentation issued to him, and the 
paperwork he read, signed and agreed  to.
CL&P was a non-regulated introducer and as such, it was never suggested to Mr C 
by Carey Pensions that CL&P  was a financial adviser or was authorised to provide 
advice. Mr C was therefore categorised  as a direct client of Carey.
Carey did not suggest or recommend the Store  First or GAS  Verdant investments to 
Mr C.  Carey is not responsible for the performance  or current  market  value of these 
investments.  
Carey acted on Mr Cs instructions to establish the SIPP,  request the transfers in and 
specifically to make the investments  on his behalf into Store First and GAS  Verdant, 
in the amounts instructed  by him.
Carey carried  out an internal investment  review  and due diligence  on the intended 
investments and concluded that these investments were  suitable to be held within  a 
UK pension scheme.
Carey undertook due diligence  on CL&P and this due diligence did not reveal any 
reason why Carey  should not accept  introductions from CL&P, at the time of 
Mr Cs investment.
Mr Cs complaint was looked  at by an investigator it was her view that the complaint should  
be upheld.  In summary she said that whilst  Carey  undertook significant  due diligence on 
CL&P it was not properly carried out.  In  respect of the due diligence  the investigator 
identified the following  failings:
Ref: DRN28294375Carey did not carry out proper  background checks  on the directors  of CL&P.  If it had 
it would  have established that one of the directors (Terrence Wright) was on the 
FSAs warning list of individuals.
There was a warning  notice on the FSA website.  This was first posted in 2010  and 
updated in 2013.   Whilst the wording changed the key message  being  that Mr 
Wright was a person to be wary of dealing with  hadnt changed.  
Despite requests CL&P didnt provide copies of either its accounts  or identity 
documents for its directors.
Carey had been accepting business from CL&P since August 2011  but it was not 
until March 2012 and after repeated requests  that CL&P were  asked to complete a 
non regulated introducer terms of business.   So when dealing with Mr Cs SIPP and 
investments the relationship between CL&P and Carey  had not been formalised.  
Good practice would have been  to have an agreement in place so that Carey  would  
have understood  the service to be offered by CL&P.  
Carey had been told by a number of consumers that CL&P  had been offering cash  
back incentives.  Carey was aware of this issue in early December 2011  before Mr 
Cs pensions were  moved.  CL&Ps involvement in the payment of illegal  payments  
should have raised  concerns about its integrity. 
Her view was that if Carey  had acted as it should have done it would not have accepted  the 
switch/transfer of Mr Cs pensions.   
She also set out how Mr C should  be compensated.  For his final salary pension  a 
calculation in line with the FCA methodology should  be carried out.  For the personal 
pensions the current value of the SIPP should  be compared to the notional  value of the 
original scheme if they had not been switched to the SIPP.  
further information  provided by Carey  
We asked Carey to provide us with some  further  information about its relationship with 
CL&P. Its response included the following general  points; 
551 clients were  introduced to Carey via CL&P. 466 clients had been  introduced  by 
the time CL&P signed the Terms of Business.
There was an FCA regulated financial adviser who provided  pension transfer advice 
to 73 of the clients introduced to Carey by CL&P, in relation  to defined benefit 
pension transfers  (there is no evidence to show Mr C was one of these clients). 
Carey first had awareness  of the issue of consumers being offered cash incentives 
by CL&P in late November 2011. This was following the AMPS  committee issuing an 
alert that they had received reports from a number of pension providers about 
inducements being  paid to scheme members  without the knowledge of the pension 
provider, and the member being told to hide the payment. No details were given 
about the parties involved. With this in mind, and following a potential  new member  
introduced by CL&P asking Carey  when they would receive their cash, Carey held an 
urgent telephone conference with representatives from CL&P (the notes of this call 
are quoted above). 
Ref: DRN28294376It has no record of receiving the accounts  for CL&P and certified copies of the 
directors passports it asked for. It thinks it is likely  that this lack of response was a 
factor in its decision to terminate its relationship  with CL&P.
CL&P only introduced  the clients to Carey at inception, it was not an ongoing service 
agent and, as such, the relationship was always between Carey and the members 
from establishment of the SIPPs,  as its direct clients.  It was the clients'  decision to 
select CL&P as their introducer.
There were  numerous  introducers  in the market and regulated  advisers who were
introducing/advising clients regarding the Store  First Investment and whose clients 
sought SIPP services  from Carey and other SIPP administrators. Carey had no 
reason to suspect  that because one of these - CL&P - had been offering cash  
inducements that there might be any particular issue or additional risks for clients in 
respect of the underlying investment.
The member declaration was very clear regarding what the investments were and, 
crucially, that they are high risk.
Carey did not agree  with the investigator.   It made  the following points:
It said it was unable  to respond fully until the investigator provided more detailed  
explanations of her conclusions.
COBS 11.2.19 required Carey to execute Mr Cs instructions - it had no discretion in 
the application of this rule.
The 2010 FSA notice about Mr Wright, unlike the 2013 warning was not a cause for 
concern.   The notice only said that Mr Wright was not authorised  a fact what  all 
parties were well aware of.  At the time there was nothing  to suggest Mr Wright was 
carrying out regulated  activities.   The investigator had not explained why she 
considers Mr C is not responsible for any of the losses  he has suffered.  Carey  gave 
him all the warnings it was required to give.  Mr  C confirmed that he had read and 
understood all the documentation he had been given. If the investigator  did not 
provide further  explanation then an ombudsman should first issue a provisional 
decision. In general correspondence about  the group of complaints to which Mr Cs 
complaint belongs Carey has also:
Asked that a response be given to each  of its points before a final decision was 
made. 
Suggested that we hold an oral hearing.
Asked us to put the complaints on hold, pending a judgment in the Adams v Carey  
court case. 
Ref: DRN28294377My findings
Some preliminary points
delay deciding this case  until  judgment  in Adams v Carey has been handed down? 
I do not consider  it appropriate to wait for the outcome of Adams  v Carey.  That is a different 
case to Mr Cs complaint and Mr C is not party to those proceedings. That being said,  I 
understand the case does involve an investment being made in Store First introduced by 
CL&P.  But the case was heard in March  2018 and the judges decision has still not yet been  
handed down  two years  later. As far as I am aware,  there is no publicly available information 
about when the decision is likely to be published. And any judgment,  when eventually  
handed down,  could be subject to appeal.    
The ombudsman service  is required to resolve  the complaints it receives quickly  and with 
minimum formality  (see section 225(1) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  
(FSMA) and Westcott Financial Services Limited  v Financial Ombudsman  Service [2014] 
EWHC 3972 Admin).  I must therefore carefully  take this into consideration in deciding 
whether or not I should delay deciding this case until after the outcome in Adams v Carey  
becomes known. And, given the substantial  delay in the judgment being handed down, I 
dont think I should  delay deciding Mr Cs case.    
I am required to determine the complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances taking into account, but not being  bound by, various 
matters including  the law. I may depart from the law if I consider it fair and reasonable to do 
so, as long as I provide sufficient reasons for doing  so. 
Its also relevant here that there has been  judgment  by Jacobs J in relation to a judicial 
review in respect of a final determination  that specifically considered the due diligence  
obligations of SIPP operators: R (Berkeley  Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 2878). 
Berkeley Burke (BBSAL) had brought a claim for judicial review about a decision of an 
ombudsman which found that BBSAL as SIPP operator had not treated its client fairly or 
reasonably when it accepted an investment into his SIPP. The ombudsman had found that 
the FCA Principles  and good industry  practice at the time meant that the SIPP  operator 
ought to have carried out due diligence before accepting  an investment into the SIPP. 
The judgment of Jacobs J provides a strong endorsement for the approach  taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint. The judgment  also considers section 228 FSMA and the 
approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. I accept that Mr Cs 
complaint is different from the complaint in the BBSAL case, and that each complaint will be 
determined on its own individual merits. However,  the relevant considerations are similar. As 
a result,  in my view, its unnecessary to await the judgment in Adams  v Carey.
 
I have carefully considered the points made by Carey in support of its request for me not to 
progress this complaint.  In deciding that request Ive weighed  the interests of all the parties, 
and my statutory commitments. Having done  so, I consider it wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
to put this case on hold while we await the outcome of the separate civil claim.
Ref: DRN28294378oral hearing?
Our rules allow for the possibility of an oral hearing  (at DISP  3.5.5R):
If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly determined without convening a 
hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite  the parties to take part in a 
hearing.
Carey hasnt requested  a hearing in this complaint  as such,  but Im aware it has suggested 
there should be a hearing because of the significance of the issues and to allow  it to better  
understand the investigators reasoning (in other  cases).  Ive therefore  thought  about this 
carefully and in the specific circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied I can fairly 
determine the matter without  a hearing. In particular, I note:
The Financial Ombudsman  Service was set up as an informal  dispute resolution 
forum and this complaint  falls squarely within the jurisdiction  of the ombudsman  
service.  While I accept  that the complaint is significant to both parties that is very 
often the case  and that point  alone cannot be the test for whether or not an oral 
hearing needs to be convened in order to fairly determine the case.  There  is nothing 
in the particular circumstances of this case that has persuaded  me that it cannot  be 
fairly determined without a hearing. 
Carey clearly believes the ombudsman service  has misunderstood the applicable law 
and regulation and it has set out its position  clearly  in writing.
Both parties have  been given an ample  opportunity to make representations and set 
out their positions.  
The Court  of Appeal has adopted a very flexible  approach to whats fair in this 
context (R on the application  of Heather Moor & Edgecomb Ltd v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2008] EWCA Civ 642).
After carefully, taking account of all the available evidence, Im satisfied I can fairly  
determine Mr Cs complaint without a hearing.  
A provisional decision?  
I note that Carey has asked for us to respond  to specific  points before I make  a final 
decision. DISP  3.5.4R sets out the procedure I must  follow  when determining  a complaint: 
If the Ombudsman decides  that an investigation  is necessary,  he will then:
1.ensure both parties have been given  an opportunity of making representations;
2.send both parties a provisional assessment, setting out his reasons and a time limit 
within which either party  must  respond; and
3.if either party indicates disagreement  with the provisional assessment within  that time 
limit, proceed to determination.
Ref: DRN28294379I am satisfied that Mr C and Carey  have been given  adequate opportunity  to make 
representations. Mr C and Carey have also received a provisional assessment, which set out 
in detail the investigators reasons for reaching  their view (the provisional assessment). 
Carey disagrees with that decision. 
I am required to give reasons for my decision,  not to give a point by point response to 
everything that has been said by the parties to the complaint. As recognised by the High 
Court in R (Williams) v FOS [2008]  EWHC  2142,  this service is dealing  with complaints, not 
causes of action.  Our jurisdiction is inquisitorial  not adversarial, and we are required to 
resolve complaints  quickly and with the minimum of formality in accordance with section 225 
of FSMA. It would not be consistent  with our powers or remit to do as Carey has asked and 
respond to each and every point it has made  before making a determination. 
So the next step is for me to proceed  to determination. And I am satisfied it is appropriate  for 
me to do that here.
Ive therefore  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
relevant considerations
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses  are of particular relevance to my decision on 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The Principles for 
Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms  under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must  take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management  systems
Principle 6  Clients  interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests  of its clients and 
treat them fairly.
In R (British  Bankers Association)  v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) 
Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied  with. The Specific rules  do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them.  They are but specific  applications  of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules. 
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach  
a view on a case without  taking the Principles into account in deciding  what  would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory  duty without having regard to 
Ref: DRN282943710the sort of high level Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
So, the Principles  have a wide application, and I need to have regard to them when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, 2.1.1R in the Code of Business Sourcebook (COBS) is also relevant. It says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
client (the client's  best interests rule).
The FCA (and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority)  has issued a number of 
publications which remind SIPP operators  of their obligations and set out how they might  
achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles:
The 2009  and 2012 thematic  review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator  guidance.
The July 2014  Dear  CEO  letter.
The September 2009 thematic review report included the following statement:
We are very clear  that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle  6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar  as they are obliged to ensure  the fair 
treatment of their clients. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension  scheme  is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. It is the 
responsibility of SIPP  operators to continuously  analyse the individual risks to themselves 
and their clients, with reference  to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree  that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP  advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves  of any responsibility,  and we would  expect them  to have procedures  and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the member  to confirm the position,  or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there  is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental 
to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate  to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious  potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual  cases,  we 
may take enforcement action against  SIPP operators  who do not safeguard their clients 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles  for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control  its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
Ref: DRN282943711The following  are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made  to firms:  
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries  that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing  to the firms  clients,  and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships,  and clarifying  
respective responsibilities,  with intermediaries  introducing SIPP  business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments  recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs  can be identified.  
Being  able to identify  anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric  investments  such as unquoted shares, together  with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek  
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended. 
Requesting copies  of the suitability  reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible  for advice,  having  this 
information would enhance the firms  understanding of its clients, making  the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances  of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility  for their investment decisions, and gathering  and analysing  data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business. Identifying instances of clients 
waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons  for this.
In the October  2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally  published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory  requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory  responsibilities that became a requirement  in 
April 2007.
All firms,  regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat clients  fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client  for 
SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP  operators responsibility  
to assess its business  with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator  guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise  and introduce prospective members  and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP  operators  include the 
following: 
Ref: DRN282943712Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers  that advise clients  
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate  permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved  persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear  on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business  warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships  and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing  SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business  objectives  are, the types  of clients  they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being  able to identify  irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments  such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would  enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example  from 
the prospective member  or their adviser,  if it has any concerns. 
Identifying  instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members  advisers are responsible  for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility  for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being  supplied  with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being  used  to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which  govern  relationships  and 
clarify responsibilities  for relationships with other professional bodies  such  as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated  introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP  operators  
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October  2013 finalised SIPP  operator  guidance  said:  
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses  requires  all firms  to conduct their business  
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain  
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing  that investments are appropriate for personal  pension  schemes)  to help 
them justify  their business decisions. In doing  this SIPP  operators  should consider: 
Ref: DRN282943713ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing  the due diligence  the firm undertakes in respect  of the 
introducers that use their scheme  and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place  in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members  and the 
scheme  
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
o ensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types  of business to the firm, and 
o undertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies  House  records, 
identifying connected  parties and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party  due diligence that the firm uses or relies  on has been 
independently produced  and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include  having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept  to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks  clearly  identify those instances  that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business,  or to undertake  further investigations  such  as 
instances of potential pension liberation,  investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments  and non-standard  investments  that have not been approved 
by the firm. 
The July 2014  Dear  CEO  letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations  about  the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes  envisaged  by the Principles. 
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet  its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by: 
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment. 
Ensuring that an investment is genuine  and not a scam,  or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation.  
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally  enforceable). 
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued,  both at point of purchase 
and subsequently. 
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy  etc).
Ref: DRN282943714Although Ive referred to selected  parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety. I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports  and the 
Dear CEO letter are not formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised  guidance  is). 
However, the fact that the reports and Dear  CEO letter  did not constitute formal guidance 
does not mean their importance should be underestimated. As mentioned, they provide a 
reminder that the Principles for Businesses  apply and are an indication  for the kinds of things 
a SIPP  operator  might do to produce  the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. So I view 
them as significant  and a relevant consideration for me to take into account  when 
determining what I believe is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also note that Careys regulatory  obligations  under the Principles existed from the outset of 
Mr Cs relationship with it. So the reports,  letter and guidance  which each gave the 
regulators view on the kinds of steps a SIPP operator might  take in practice  to achieve the 
outcomes envisaged  by the Principles  are each relevant considerations in this case. 
I recognise that the 2013 finalised guidance and the Dear CEO letter  was published after 
the events subject to this complaint, but the Principles that underpin them existed  
throughout, as did the obligation  to act in accordance with the Principles and with COBS  
2.1.1R (the client's  best interests  rule).
It is also clear  from the text of the 2009  and 2012  reports (and the Dear  CEO letter  in 2014)  
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended  good 
practices into the conduct of their business already.  So, whilst the regulators comments  
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the standards  shaped what  was 
expected of SIPP operators changed  over time, it is clear the standards themselves did not 
change.
That doesnt  mean that in considering what  is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Careys actions with these documents in mind.  The reports, letter  and guidance gave non-
exhaustive guidance.  They did not say the suggestions given were the limit of what  a SIPP  
operator should do. As the annex  to the Dear CEO letter  notes, what should be done  to 
meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances.  
So, in looking at whether, in accepting  Mr Cs SIPP application from CL&P, Carey acted 
fairly and reasonably, I need to consider if it complied with its general duties set out by the 
Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, to take reasonable care to organise  its 
business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay due regards  to the interests  of its 
customers, to treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally  in accordance 
with the clients  best interests. And, in doing  that, Im looking to the Principles and the 
publications listed above, as well as COBS 2.1.1R  to provide an indication of what  Carey 
could have done to comply with its regulatory  obligations and duties. 
In this case, the business Carey was conducting was its operation of SIPPs.  I am satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding  
whether to accept  or reject particular  investments  and/or referrals of business. The 
regulators reports and guidance provided  some examples of good  practice  observed by the 
FSA and FCA during  its work with SIPP operators.  
The due diligence carried out by Carey on CL&P
As set out above there is an obligation  on SIPP operators to carry out due diligence  on firms  
that introduce business to it  this includes unregulated  introducers  as well as authorised  
firms.  This is accepted by Carey  - it has said:
Ref: DRN282943715As an FSA regulated pensions company  we are required  to carry out due diligence  as best 
practice on unregulated  introducer firms looking  to introduce client  to us to gain some  insight 
into the business they carry  out.
So the key question is whether this due diligence was carried out to the required standard   
not whether there was an obligation to carry out due diligence.  
Carey carried  out the following due diligence  on CL&P:
On 19 September  2011 it obtained  a print out of the CL&P  website.  This contained the 
following information:
we are working hard to become the leading supplier of commercial land and 
products across different areas with good long term growth.
expert advice tailored  to the individual   (my  emphasis)
In accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, CLP brokers do 
not provide any financial  advice.
On 20 September  2011 background checks were completed on two employees of CL&P.
On 27 September  2011 Carey wrote to CL&P and asked it to complete a non-regulated 
introducer profile.  It said: 
As previously mentioned  we require for our compliance process  to perform due diligence  on 
company's (sic)  who we enter into a business  and professional relationship with so I would 
be grateful if you could complete the attached Introducer profile  and sign and return it to us 
following which we will then issue you a Non-Regulated Terms of Business for
signing.
I look forward to the completed  form duly signed as soon as possible
The non-regulated introducer profile was returned  on 29 September 2011.  It was signed by 
Terence Wright, and named him and Lesley Wright as directors  of CL&P.  In  the event this 
document was only partially completed  with some questions left unanswered.  
The form also asked the following question:
Are you or the firm subject to any ongoing FSA or other regulatory body review  action  or 
censure - to which the answer given was no  this was incorrect.
On 9 December  2011  it spoke to representatives  of CL&P  and discussed the high portion 
of business it had introduced which related to the transfer of final salary  schemes,  and the 
payment of cash back incentives.  It was agreed that in future any defined  benefit transfers 
would be referred  to a suitably  qualified IFA for relevant  advice and a copy  of that advice 
would be provided  to Carey for its file record.
On 13 March 2012  it asked  CL&P to sign a non-regulated introducer agreement, 
backdated to the time it first started  to refer business  to Carey (15 August 2011). 
On 23 March 2012  it asked  CL&P for a copy of its accounts and passports of the directors.  
Ref: DRN282943716On 3 April 2012   it repeated its request to CL&P for a copy of its accounts  and passports of 
the directors. 
On 15 May 2012  it completed a background check  on Terence Wright, which revealed he 
was the subject of an FSA alert.  
When taken together,  these efforts went  some  way towards meeting the examples of good  
practice set out by the regulator in the publications Ive set out above. I expect Careys 
action was taken  with these  and its overarching regulatory obligations  in mind. However, 
rather than conducting  sufficient due diligence proactively,  before  deciding to accept 
business from CL&P, in my view Carey  took a reactive  piecemeal  approach.  Acting fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations  Carey should have taken many of the steps it 
subsequently took prior to accepting any business  from CL&P.  If it had done so, I think  it 
ought to have led it to conclude that it would not be fair and reasonable to accept Mr Cs 
business from CL&P.  I have set out below in more detail  the steps I think  Carey  should have 
taken and what, acting fairly and reasonably, it should have concluded having taken those 
steps. 
What should Carey have done? 
 
The FSA warning 
At the very outset, I think Carey should have checked the regulators list of unauthorised 
firms and individuals.  The list featured warnings (alerts) about unauthorised individuals  
and businesses. Checking  the warnings posted on the FSAs  website is something that 
Carey should have done as matter of course  as part of sufficient due diligence, before it 
began accepting any business from CL&P.  CL&P was an unregulated business, based in 
Spain and was proposing to deal with the pensions  of UK consumers, in an introductory 
capacity. As I explain later in this decision,  I think if Carey had carried out sufficient due 
diligence, or drawn  reasonable  conclusions  from what it already knew,  it ought to have 
known CL&P was going to be doing more than merely introducing  consumers to Careys  
SIPP. But, in any event,  Carey ought  to have  known the FSA kept a list of alerts,  relating  to 
unregulated businesses, which were often based  overseas, dealing with UK consumers.  As 
a SIPP  operator  considering accepting  business  from an unregulated overseas firm it should 
have been mindful  of this list and, acting fairly and reasonably, it ought to have checked it 
before proceeding. 
I note that the non-regulated introducer profile  had a question which asked Are you and/or 
the Firm subject to any on-going FSA or other regulatory body review, action or censure. Mr 
Wright answered that question No. However,  it was not sufficient in my view to simply ask 
the introducer a general  question.  Rather, I think Carey, acting fairly and in Mr Cs best 
interests, should have  carried  out checks on Mr Wright. I think  a reasonable step for it to 
have taken was to check the FSAs list of warnings. Had it done so, it would  have discovered  
that Mr Wright was on the list and subject of the warning I have quoted  in the background  
section. 
I also note the background checking  service  Carey used revealed Mr Wrights presence on 
the list when it ran a check on Mr Wright on 15 May 2012. When  Carey began  accepting 
business from CL&P it used this checking  service,  but used it to check  two representatives 
of CL&P, rather than to check  Mr Wright. I agree with what  the investigator said about this in 
her view  acting fairly and reasonably Carey should have checked Mr Wright at the outset, 
Ref: DRN282943717not two representatives of CL&P. The available evidence shows  Carey knew  Mr Wright  was 
a director of CL&P  it is therefore  him they should  have checked  at the outset. 
So I think that Carey, acting fairly and reasonably, should have checked the FSAs list at the 
outset, and would have checked the FSAs list at the outset if it had used  the checking 
service. 
I note that Carey ended  its relationship with CL&P shortly after completing the check on Mr 
Wright. It therefore seems  likely  this check was a factor in its decision to end the 
relationship. So had Carey focussed  its checks on the correct  person at the outset it should 
have led it to draw a different conclusion about the acceptance of business from CL&P  at the 
outset. 
Carey now says, in its representations in this complaint relating to the FSAs list, that  the  
Notice (the alert) amounts simply to a notification that Mr Wright is not authorised to carry on 
regulated activities, a fact of which Carey was well aware and upon which basis  it accepted 
referrals from CL&P. 
I think Mr Wrights  appearance on the list ought to have highlighted to Carey  that the 
regulator was concerned  enough about  Mr Wrights activities to warn consumers about him. 
And I think in the circumstances it is fair and reasonable to conclude that the warning was 
aimed at protecting consumers from detriment in their dealings with him.
With this in mind, I think the warning  should  have acted as a significant reason for Carey  to 
be concerned about  any business Mr Wright was involved  in  not just Cash  In Your 
Pension. The warning  mentioned that Mr Wright  was involved in the area of pensions   
which is the same business area as CL&P was active  in. And the warning said that Mr 
Wright was not authorised and may be targeting UK customers in connection  with 
investment business  conducted through an unregulated company, Cash  In Your  Pension.  
I also think the presence of Mr Wright on the list, after he had answered  no to a question 
asking him if he was subject to any FSA action or censure, should immediately have raised a 
red flag to Carey  it should have given rise to significant concern about Mr Wrights 
conduct. 
Carey has tried to downplay the significance of the 2010 warning by contrasting  it with the 
later one published in 2013.  It says that the 2010  warning  does  not detail any concern by the 
regulator about Mr Wright.  I accept  that the 2013 warning provides strong advice  to only deal 
with financial firms authorised by the FCA.  However,  I do not agree with Careys 
characterisation of the 2010 warning and Im surprised  that in response to the investigators 
provisional assessment  Carey suggests that the regulator does not detail any concern about 
Mr Wright  in the 2010 warning. Whilst it does  not explicitly say that Mr Wright had been 
undertaking a regulated activity the inference  that he had is in my view clear. If the regulator 
had no concerns it would not have issued an alert in order  to warn investors against dealing  
with unauthorised firms  followed by advice telling members of the public that Mr Wright was 
not authorised  to carry on a regulated activity including advising on investments. 
Carey accepts that the wording in the 2013 warning, if it had been published at the time of it 
accepting business  from CL&P,  would have  been  sufficient to stop it doing  business with Mr 
Wright/CL&P. Carey has said:
Ref: DRN282943718The fact that the FCA updated their notice in 2013 to a clear  warning including  an express  
comment that Mr Wright was an individual to avoid, a warning that would  have put Carey 
Pensions on notice  to stop accepting business  from Mr Wright. (my emphasis)
In my view the October 2010 warning was also a clear indication  that the regulator  had 
serious concerns  about the way Mr Wright conducted his business and therefore  should 
equally have  put Carey on notice that it should  not accept business from Mr Wright.  
A warning headed ALERT in bold is clearly not a routine, unimportant document.  Its clear 
from the wording itself that the FSA was warning investors against dealing with unauthorised 
firms and specifically named Mr Wright.  He was involved in targeting  (to use the FSAs 
phrase) UK based  pension  investors   which should  have been of particular concern for a 
SIPP operator considering accepting business from him.  The warning also provided links to:
A list of unauthorised  firms
A press release about unauthorised firms targeting UK investors
A document telling investors about  the tactics adopted by unauthorised firms  
targeting UK investors.
A document explaining share scams.
So the warning  was more than a mere statement of fact that an unauthorised firm could not 
carry out regulated  activities. It was a clear warning  an alert - relating specifically to Mr 
Wright, providing links to guidance  on consumer protection and warnings about  scams. In 
my view the 2010 warning  is as serious in its implications as the 2013  warning. 
So in summary,  if Carey had undertaken sufficient  due diligence on CL&P  it would  have 
discovered that its director Terence Wright was on the FSA warning list and acting fairly and 
reasonably it should  have  declined to do business  with him. I think  this alone was sufficient 
for Carey to conclude that acting fairly and reasonably and taking account  of the need to act 
in Mr Cs best interests it should  not have accepted business from CL&P.  
CL&Ps business model 
As Ive highlighted above, in the circumstances, I think that acting in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations and the requirement to treat Mr C fairly,  the 2010  warning alone 
should have resulted in Carey declining to do business with CL&P. However,  as Carey does 
not accept that the 2010 warning should  have led it to conclude  it should not accept 
business from CL&P I have, for completeness, considered what other  due diligence Carey 
should have carried  out, as an absolute  minimum.
Carey should have made enquiries to satisfy  itself CL&P was not conducting business in a 
way that could result in a real risk of detriment for consumers.  In complying with its 
regulatory obligations and the requirement to treat Mr C fairly,  it is fair and reasonable to say 
that Carey should  have  ensured that it fully understood CL&Ps  business model before it 
accepted any business from it. And I note Carey appears to have recognised  this itself, 
having explained in the introduction to the non-regulated introducer profile As an FSA 
regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence as best practice on 
unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce  client to us to gain some insight into the 
business they carry out.
In response to the investigators view, Carey  says that it reasonably  considered at all times  
that CL&P was an unregulated introducer  which was not providing advice. However, I dont 
Ref: DRN282943719agree that this is a reasonable conclusion given the information that was either readily  
available at the time or that could have been  discovered through  a basic  level of due 
diligence. Rather,  I think there  was a significant  risk that CL&P  was targeting  UK pension  
consumers and giving them  advice even though it was not regulated  to do so. 
Mr C says he received advice. And I think its fair to say that its unusual  for people to make 
important decisions about their pensions without advice or a recommendation about  where  
to invest funds  particularly where the investments are high risk and unregulated.  Theres 
also no suggestion that Mr C spoke to anyone else about his pension options  or that any 
other party was involved.  So I think on balance its likely that Mr C was advised by CL&P to 
make the Store  First and Gas Verdant investments. 
This is the kind of risk that ought  to have been at the forefront of Careys  thinking when 
dealing with an unregulated business  like CL&P - especially because  of the regulators 
warning about  Mr Wright who the FSA believed was targeting  UK customers, and the 
reference to advice  contained in the print out of CL&Ps website Carey had regard to. 
I think given Careys regulatory obligations, it is fair and reasonable, to say that it should  
have taken steps to understand much  more about what  CL&Ps  business model involved 
beyond the limited information contained  in the non-regulated introducer profile and the other  
basic enquiries that it made. 
Carey should, for example, have followed  up on the very brief answers provided on the 
introducer profile about how CL&P actually  contacted potential customers, the type of 
investments it would be introducing, what information was being  provided to customers, what  
steps were being  taken  to ensure that customers were not advised or were  directed to a 
regulated adviser,  and how CL&P ensured  that it was not conducting other regulated  
activities. If it had conducted further enquiries as part of its due diligence  before accepting 
this business I think  Carey would have (or ought  to have) identified that it was unusual  that 
CL&P, an unregulated  business based in Spain, was contacting  consumers in the UK about 
pension investments. I think its likely that it would have found that CL&P  was calling  
customers to discuss  their pensions, that it specialised in a few high risk esoteric 
investments and, following contact from CL&P,  and without the involvement of any other 
regulated parties,  many  UK consumers  were transferring their pensions  to SIPPs to make 
these investments. I also think that its likely  that Carey would have found that were 
insufficient safeguards  against advice being  given.  
Knowing this, and the regulators  warning  about  Mr Wright, I think  Carey ought to have 
identified that there  was a real and significant risk of consumer detriment in introductions 
made to it by CL&P. This ought to have given it further reason  to conclude that it would not 
be consistent with its regulatory obligations - it would not be treating Mr C fairly and in his 
best interests - to accept business from CL&P.
I accept that there is a possibility that, if Carey  had made enquiries, CL&P  might not have 
been forthcoming with information about  its business model.  But that is not a reasonable 
basis for not making  reasonable enquires.  Further, if CL&P  was reluctant or refused to 
provide information  about its business model  or if its answers  were  ambiguous  and 
contradictory that ought to have been something in and of itself that made  Carey  concerned  
about the integrity and motivations of those operating CL&P.  As such, I think  this too should 
have led Carey to conclude that there  was a real risk of consumer detriment and that it 
would not be treating  Mr C fairly and in his best interests in accepting  his introduction from 
CL&P.
Ref: DRN282943720Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think  in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Carey failed to conduct  
sufficient due diligence on CL&P before  accepting  business from it, and if it had carried  out 
proper due diligence,  it ought to have  concluded  that it should not accept any business from 
CL&P. I therefore conclude that it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to say that 
Carey should not have  accepted Mr Cs application.
Further points  
Defined benefit  (final salary) transfer 
One of Mr Cs pensions  was a final salary scheme,  and the transfer to the Carey SIPP was 
submitted to Carey by CL&P  as execution only business. In December  2011,  Carey had a 
conference call with CL&P and explained  that concern had been raised at a recent  AMPS  
conference regarding Final Salary Transfers to SIPPs  and the need for clients  to take 
advice. In this call Carey noted  that ordinarily  you would not expect more than 5% of FSTVs 
[final salary transfers] to be execution only and these would only be relevant for suitably 
qualified individuals  such  as IFAs, Brokers,  Investment  Professionals.
Similarly, in the same  conference call in December 2011, Carey agreed with CL&P  that in 
future cases of FS Transfers would be referred to suitably qualified  IFAs for relevant advice 
and copy of that advice would be provided to Careys  for file records.   It is clear from this 
agreement that Carey had identified a real risk of consumer  detriment  where a consumer  
was transferring from a final salary  pension to a SIPP  on an execution  only basis  and that 
this new requirement  was put in place in order to protect  consumers from this detriment. 
With this in mind, I think it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Cs case to 
conclude that Carey should have  applied this requirement before accepting his application  
from CL&P. 
 
Although the application  forms for Mr Cs transfer  had been received before December 2011, 
the transfer did not complete until January 2012,  and had certainly not completed by the time 
Carey became aware that it was unusual to see such business on an execution  only basis,  
and that it should be expected to come  only from those who worked  in the investment  
industry.  It  had agreed with CL&P that future final salary transfers would be referred to a 
suitably qualified IFA for advice and a copy of the suitability report  provided to Carey.   This 
did not happen in the case  of Mr C.
In those circumstances  and particularly given  all the other factors listed here  it is not 
clear why Carey proceeded with Mr Cs instructions on an execution  only basis  and without 
ensuring he had received  suitable advice in accordance with its own recent  procedure.  
Although Carey was not able to give advice,  and is not expected to have done so, I do 
expect Carey, in the circumstances, to have been  very wary of accepting  Mr Cs application 
 particularly given  what it had been told at the AMPS conference.
Cash incentives 
In November 2011 Carey  became aware  of a number of consumers who had received 
incentive payments  to move their pensions to Carey.  Such payments are against the rules 
covering pensions and can attract a substantial  tax charge from HMRC.   On becoming 
aware of this Carey  spoke  to CL&P.  But I think it ought to have spoken  to consumers 
directly about this, not just to CL&P.  And  I think such action would have led to the 
conclusion that cash incentive payments were being  offered by CL&P. 
Ref: DRN282943721In the light of that, I think Carey ought to have concluded it would not be consistent with its 
regulatory obligations to deal with any further business from CL&P   whether that was new 
business or pipeline business consisting of applications accepted but not completed.  It 
should not therefore have  proceeded with Mr Cs application, in the light of this knowledge. I 
think Careys awareness of cash incentives should  have led to conclude  it should not 
proceed with all business brought to it by CL&P.  In light of this serious  allegation I think  
Carey should have questioned whether CL&P  was a suitable and trustworthy firm to be 
dealing with. In my mind  this should have been a significant red flag.  
I make  these  further points only for completeness, as they refer to things which  happened  
after Mr Cs application had been accepted.  For the reasons I have  set out, I do not think 
Carey should have accepted Mr Cs application  at all. 
Should Carey have proceeded regardless? 
the member declaration  and indemnities 
The indemnity sought to confirm that Mr C was aware the investment was high risk, had 
taken his own advice,  and would not hold Carey responsible for any liability  resulting from 
the investment.  
The main  point to make here is that Carey  should  never have accepted the business  from 
CL&P, for the reasons  given. So Mr C should never  have got to the point of signing a 
member declaration, or the indemnities, as the business should  not have come  about at all. 
In any event, I dont think  these documents, in themselves, are sufficient for me to conclude 
that Carey acted fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Cs instructions. 
The FSAs 2009 report said that SIPP operators  should, as an example of good practice, be:
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers  taking 
responsibility for investment decisions and gathering and analysing data regarding  the 
aggregate volume of such business.
With this in mind, I think Carey ought to have been  cautious about accepting  Mr Cs 
application and because of the documents he had signed. There was no evidence of any 
regulated party (other than Carey) being involved in this transaction. In these  circumstances 
I think very little comfort could have  been  taken from a declaration  by Mr C that he had 
decided not to take advice  (in relation to the transfer  of his final salary and personal pension) 
and understood  the risks or the indemnity stating that Mr C had taken  his own advice, and 
understood the risks (in relation to the investment). 
Carey accepting business whilst asking Mr C to sign documents  to absolve  it of all 
responsibility was not treating Mr C fairly, given what  Carey ought to have  known. Carey  was 
the regulated  entity here. It had to act in a way that was consistent with the regulatory 
obligations that Ive set out in this decision. In my view,  asking  Mr C to sign a declaration and 
an indemnity absolving it of all responsibility when  it ought to have known that Mr Cs 
dealings with CL&P were  putting him at significant  risk was not the fair and reasonable thing 
to do. It should  have  refused the business,  not gone  ahead regardless and asked Mr C to 
absolve it of the consequences. 
Ref: DRN282943722COBS 11.2.19R
I note that Carey has made the point that COBS 11.2.19  R obliged  it to execute  investment 
instructions. It effectively says that once the SIPP has been established, it is obligated to 
execute the specific instructions of its client. 
However, in the circumstances  it is my view that the crux of the issue  in this complaint is 
whether Carey should have accepted the SIPP application from CL&P and established  
Mr Cs SIPP  in the first place. And, for the reasons I set out above, it is my view that Carey 
should not have done so. 
This argument was considered and rejected by the judge in the recent case  of Berkeley 
Burke v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018]  EWHC 2878 (Admin) .  In this case  Jacobs J  
said:  
The heading  to COBS  11.2.1R shows that it is concerned with the manner in which orders  
are to be executed:  i.e. on terms most  favourable to the client. This is consistent  with the 
heading to COBS 11.2 as a whole, namely:  Best execution.  The text of COBS 11.2.1R is to 
the same  effect.  The expression when  executing  orders indicates that it is looking at the 
moment when the firm comes to execute  the order, and the way in which the firm must then 
conduct itself. It is concerned with the mechanics of execution; a conclusion  reached,  albeit 
in a different context,  in Bailey & Anr v Barclays Bank [2014] EWHC 2882 (QB), paras  [34]  
[35]. It is not addressing an anterior question, namely whether a particular order  should be 
executed at all. I agree  with the FCAs submission that COBS  11.2 is a section of the 
Handbook concerned with the method of execution of client  orders, and is designed  to 
achieve a high quality of execution. It presupposes that there is an order being executed, 
and refers to the factors  that must  be taken  into account when deciding how best to execute 
the order. It has nothing  to do with the question of whether or not the order should be 
accepted in the first place.
I therefore dont  think that Careys argument on this point is relevant to its obligations under 
the Principles  to decide whether or not to accept an application to open a SIPP  in the first 
place. 
In conclusion
All in all, I do not consider  that Carey acted  with due skill, care and diligence, organised and 
controlled its affairs responsibly, or treated  Mr C fairly or acted in his best interests  by 
accepting Mr Cs business  from CL&P. To my mind, Carey did not meet its regulatory  
obligations, and allowed  Mr C to be put at significant  risk of detriment as a result. 
To be clear, I am not making  a finding  that Carey should have assessed  the suitability of the 
investment or the SIPP for Mr C. I accept  Carey had no obligation to give advice to Mr C, or 
otherwise ensure the suitability of a pension product or investment for him. My finding  is not 
that Carey should  have  concluded that the investment or SIPP  was not suitable  for Mr C.  It 
is that Carey did not meet  its regulatory obligations and should not have accepted  the 
business from CL&P. It failed to treat Mr C fairly or act with due skill, care and diligence or 
take reasonable care to organise  and control its affairs responsibly by doing  so. And, in the 
circumstances, it is fair and reasonable for Carey to be held responsible for its failings.
Ref: DRN282943723Is it fair to ask Carey  to compensate Mr C? 
In deciding whether  Carey  is responsible  for any losses that Mr C has suffered on his Store 
First investment I need to look at what would have happened if Carey had done what  it 
should have done i.e. not accepted his application.   
Had Carey undertaken  sufficient due diligence before or at the time Mr Cs business was 
introduced to it, it ought to have concluded that it should not accept business from CL&P. 
That should  have been the end of the matter  it should have told Mr C that it could not 
accept the business.  And I am satisfied, if that had happened, the arrangement for Mr C 
would not have come about in the first place, and the loss he suffered could have been  
avoided. The financial loss has flowed from Mr C transferring  out of his existing pensions 
and into a SIPP.  For the reasons I set out below I am satisfied that, had the SIPP 
application not been accepted, the loss would not have been suffered. 
Had Carey explained  to Mr C that it would not accept the application  from CL&P  I find it very 
unlikely that Mr C would have tried to find another  SIPP operator  to accept the business.  He 
is likely  to have had no trust in CL&P once he became  aware Carey would not accept the 
business. In any event, I dont think its fair and reasonable  to say that Carey should  not be 
responsible for its errors because another SIPP operator would have  made the same 
mistakes. I think its fair instead to assume  that another SIPP  provider wouldnt have 
processed the transaction if it had carried out sufficient due diligence  in accordance with its 
own regulatory responsibilities and good  industry  practice. So again, I think  the end result 
would have been that Mr C would not have made the Store First and Gas Verdant 
investment or the transfers  from his existing pensions that preceded them.    
So I am satisfied that Mr C would not have continued with the SIPP, had it not been for 
Careys failings, and would have remained in his existing  schemes.   And, whilst I accept that 
CL&P is responsible  for initiating  the course of action that has led to his loss, I consider that 
Carey failed unreasonably  to put a stop to that course of action when it had the opportunity 
and obligation  to do so.
In making these findings, I take account the potential contribution made by other parties  to 
the losses suffered  by Mr C. In my view, in considering what  fair compensation looks  like in 
this case, it is reasonable to make an award against  Carey that requires it to compensate  
Mr C for the full measure  of his loss. But for Careys failings, Mr Cs pension transfers would 
not have occurred in the first place. 
I am not asking Carey  to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. 
I am satisfied those failings have  caused the full extent of the loss in question.   That other 
parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter,  which  I am not able 
to determine.  However, that fact should  not impact on Mr Cs right to compensation from 
Carey for the full amount  of his loss.  
putting things right
My aim is to return Mr C to the position he would now be in but for what  I consider to be 
Careys failure to carry out adequate  due diligence checks before accepting  Mr Cs SIPP 
application from CL&P.  
Ref: DRN282943724In light of the above, Carey should calculate fair compensation  by comparing the current  
position to the position  Mr C would  be in if he had not transferred from his existing pensions. 
In summary,  Carey should:
1.Calculate the loss Mr C has suffered as a result of making the transfers. 
2.Take ownership of the Store  First and GAS Verdant investments.
3.Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Cs SIPP.  If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss directly  to Mr C.  In either  case  the payment should take 
into account the necessary adjustments set out below.   
4.Pay 500 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Lastly, in order  to be fair to Carey, it should  have the option  of payment of this redress  being 
contingent upon Mr C assigning any claim he may have against CL&P, to Carey. The terms 
of the assignment  should require Carey to account  to Mr C for any amount it subsequently 
recovers against CL&P that exceeds  the loss paid to Mr C. 
Ill explain  how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further  detail 
below:
1.Calculate the loss Mr C has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, Carey should work out the likely value of Mr Cs pensions,  had he left them  where 
they were instead  of transferring to the SIPP. 
For the part of the transfer  which related to defined benefits Carey should undertake a 
redress calculation in line with the revised  methodology  issued by the FCA in October 2017. 
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate actuarial 
services provider promptly following receipt  of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the 
decision. 
Carey may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the employers  scheme  on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P  
entitlement.
For the remainder Carey should ask Mr C's former pension provider to calculate  the current  
notional transfer  values had he not transferred  his pension. If there are any difficulties  in 
obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return 
index should be used to calculate the value. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of return  
that could have been achieved if suitable  funds had been chosen.
The total of these notional transfer  values should be compared to the transfer  value of the 
SIPP at the date of this decision  and the difference will be the loss Mr C has suffered.
2.Take ownership of the Store  First investment  and GAS  Verdant investment
Ref: DRN282943725I understand Carey  has been able to take ownership  of the Store First investment, for a nil 
consideration, in other cases. It should do that here, if possible.  If possible Carey  should 
take ownership of the GAS Verdant  investment.   Carey should calculate  a commercial value 
for Mr Cs GAS  Verdant investment, then pay that sum (plus any costs involved) into the 
SIPP and take ownership of the investment. If Carey is unable to buy Mr Cs investment in 
GAS Verdant it should  give the investment a nil value  for the purposes of calculating  
compensation.
If Carey is unable  to take ownership of the Store First or the GAS  Verdant investment, they 
should remain in the SIPP. I think that is fair because I think it is unlikely they will have any 
value in the future.  I understand Mr C has the option of returning  his Store First investment 
to the freeholder for nil consideration.   
In the event the Store First investment remains in the SIPP  and Mr C decides not to transfer 
it to the freeholder he should  be aware  that he will be liable for all future costs associated  
with the investment such as the ongoing  SIPP fees, business rates, ground rent and any 
other charges. He should also be aware it is unlikely he will be able to make a further 
complaint about  these  costs. 
3.Pay compensation to Mr C for the loss he has suffered as calculated  in step 1.   
If possible the compensation  for the loss should  be paid into a pension.  The compensation 
should not be paid into a pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.  
Payment into a pension  should allow for the effect  of charges and any available  tax relief.  
This may mean the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to 
notionally allow for the income tax relief Mr C could claim. The notional allowance should  be 
calculated using Mr Cs marginal rate of tax.  
On the other hand, Mr C may not be able to pay the compensation  into a pension.  If so 
compensation for the loss should  be paid to Mr C direct.   But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the 
compensation for the loss paid to Mr C should  be reduced to notionally allow  for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance  should be calculated  using 
Mr Cs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance  would equate  to a reduction in the total 
amount equivalent  to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would  have been  able to 
take a tax free lump  sum, the notional  allowance should be applied to 75% of the total 
amount.
4.Pay 500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr C has been caused some distress by the loss of all of his pension benefits.  I consider that 
a payment of 500 is appropriate to compensate  for that upset.
SIPP fees
The investigator said in her view that future SIPP fees should be waived. Whilst Store  First 
can be removed from the SIPP  I am not sure about  the GAS  Verdant investment.  If the 
SIPP needs to be kept open  as a result  of the GAS  Verdant investment  then any future SIPP  
fees should be waived until the SIPP can be closed.  If the SIPP  is kept open with only the 
Store First investment in it then Mr C shall be liable for the future costs associated  with it. 
Ref: DRN282943726interest
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment  must  be paid to Mr C or into his SIPP 
within 90 days of the date Carey receives  notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Interest must  be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 
90 days. 
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period  and so any period of time where the only 
outstanding item required  to undertake  the calculation  is data from the DWP may be added 
to the 90 day period  in which interest wont apply.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my decision is that I uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Options SIPP UK LLP 
should calculate and pay compensation as set out above. 
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2829437