K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps complaint concerns the savings policy he took out with Aviva  Life & Pensions UK 
Limited in1995.  He says no alternatives  were discussed and he had no need for more  life 
cover.
background
The policy was a 10 year savings plan invested  in a with-profit fund which  the advisor said 
was compatible with Mr Ps attitude to risk. It had a premium of £50 per month.
The advisors reasons  why letter said that Mr P wanted to save for his childrens future  
including possible university fees or wedding costs. An element  of life cover  was included in 
the policy to render it qualifying for tax purposes  i.e. making returns tax-free.
An adjudicator at this service  felt the policy was suitable  for Mr P at the time of the sale as it 
provided him with a form of savings for his childrens future over a reasonable time span, 
and matched his risk profile.
She said that even  if, as Mr Ps representative alleged, no alternatives were discussed,  this 
wasnt a ground to uphold the complaint if the recommended policy was itself perfectly 
suitable.
Mr Ps representative disagreed, and said:
Mr P already had enough life cover and the plan's charges made it a highly 
unattractive proposition as a regular  savings vehicle
There is no question that the front end and ongoing charges impacted on the 
potential for proper growth
The regulator has actually fined companies  for regularly selling contracts such  as 
these so it was clearly not suitable
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
Firstly, it is important to reiterate  that this sale took place nearly 25 years  ago and Mr P 
surrendered the plan nearly 15 years ago. So I think it is impossible to safely reach a 
decision about what was, and wasnt discussed given this time lapse, along with the limited 
information available.  But, as the adjudicator said, our role is to decide  whether this was a 
reasonable recommendation, not whether  other options were discussed or might have been 
equally suitable. Crucially,  my role is to decide  whether there  is clearly  enough  evidence  to 
safely conclude that this recommendation was definitely wrong.
Ive seen no evidence  that this plan was unaffordable given Mr P retained it for the full 
recommended 10 years  and the investment itself was considered a typically low risk product, 
suitable for someone looking  for a cautious,  regular savings plan. Ive seen  no evidence to 
suggest Mr P wasnt prepared to make  modest  monthly contributions into a risk-based  
Ref: DRN22792692investment. The life insurance element  was designed to deliver tax-free  returns so the fact 
that Mr P already had life cover  did not make it unsuitable.
The original  documentation,  although  difficult to decipher in places, indicates that the advisor  
sought to fully assess Mr Ps situations  includes finances, outgoings, family commitments 
and so on. From the limited information available, Ive seen nothing to suggest that he didnt 
assess the suitability  of this product for Mr Ps circumstances and objectives.
His representative, a Claims Management Company, may believe that the charges were 
high or excessive but Ive seen no evidence that these  were hidden. So I am satisfied that 
Mr P was in a reasonable position to choose whether to go ahead given the size of the 
charges. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2279269