K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
with a loan in 1999. Mrs R says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Rs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs Rs representatives disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same  
complaint points and arguments theyd previously made.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Rs. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here, but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations  in deciding Mrs Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
What we know of HSBCs  sales process makes me think  it likely the PPI wouldve only 
been added  at the time if Mrs R signed a declaration to say shed  decided  to take it. She 
has said it was just included and she had no interest in PPI. I give her recollections some  
weight, but I also bear in mind she set these out for us almost 20 years  after the sale.  So 
it wouldnt be surprising if she didnt recall  every detail. With this in mind, Mrs Rs 
recollections arent on their own enough to make me think HSBC  just included  the PPI 
and didnt give her a choice like I think it normally would have at that time.
I havent seen  anything else to make me think HSBC just included  the PPI without giving 
Mrs R a choice. So, taking everything  into account,  I think  it more likely HSBC  made  it 
clear Mrs R didnt  have  to take the PPI and she chose to take it.
Ref: DRN20317002HSBC  recommended  the PPI to Mrs R, so it had to check  the PPI was right for her. And 
the evidence  about her circumstances  shows the PPI wasnt fundamentally wrong  or 
unsuitable for her at the time. For example, she was eligible for the cover,  shed taken 
out a new loan and, from what shes told us of her work benefits, shed have suffered a 
loss of income if she couldnt  work  for an extended time. Also, although  shes  said she 
was financially  stretched,  Ive seen nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the policy 
wasnt affordable.  The PPI benefit  was payable on top of Mrs Rs work benefits  and it 
could be paid for longer  than the work  sick pay shes told us about  and could last longer 
than the redundancy pay its likely  she was entitled  to.
Also, there was nothing about  Mrs Rs employment or occupation which wouldve made  
it difficult for her to claim. Mrs R couldnt  claim if she missed work due to her health issue 
but, taking into account all shes told us about it including  that she hadnt missed work  
with it, I still dont think it was wrong for HSBC to have  recommended  her the cover. 
There were also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found she chose to take it, so it looks  to me like she wanted  this 
type of cover. Also sample  documentation makes me think it likely Mrs R was given clear 
information about the policy cost.  The policy wasnt  unsuitable or fundamentally wrong  
for her, as I concluded  above, or too dissimilar to what  its likely she reasonably  thought 
she was buying  from the information she was given, bearing in mind I think it unlikely she 
wouldve bought  cover without having at least a broad understanding of what it covered.
A pro-rata  refund wasnt paid if the PPI was cancelled early  but Ive nothing to suggest  
Mrs R at the sale had plans to do that. Also Im not persuaded  she wouldve thought she 
could claim for work absences due to normal pregnancy and such  an exclusion isnt 
unusual or one Id have  expected HSBC to highlight. But more significant  pregnancy  
issues, like medical complications,  werent  excluded. With this and all Ive said above in 
mind, it seems like the cover wouldve been useful for Mrs R if something went  wrong.  
Because of this, I dont think she wouldve declined it had HSBC  done anything more.
Overall, I consider Mrs R wouldve still taken the PPI. I think it couldve provided a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances. I also think it was sufficiently close to what  
its likely  she thought  she was getting.  And, in those circumstances, I think  Mrs R would have 
taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Rs representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant HSBC should have disclosed  the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim. 
Mrs Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific  facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. 
Ref: DRN20317003Ive thought about these  things and how they might apply in Mrs Rs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  whats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  which I dont think I should  uphold for the reasons 
Ive set out. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. This means 
HSBC doesnt  have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mrs Rs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2031700