K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them  a Premier packaged bank 
account.
background
Mr and Mrs H originally held a fee free joint bank account with Lloyds. During the 1990s 
Lloyds introduced fee paying accounts that offered customers extra benefits. Mr and Mrs Hs 
account was subsequently upgraded to a Gold Added Value Account  (AVA) . 
In 2010, Mr and Mrs H changed to a Platinum  AVA. And in January 2011, during a phone 
call with Lloyds, they changed again to a Premier AVA.
Lloyds has already upheld Mr and Mrs Hs complaints about the sale of the Gold and 
Platinum accounts  and made  a payment to them to settle those complaints. Mr and Mrs H 
werent happy with the way Lloyds worked out the payment it sent them in respect of the 
Gold account. 
Mr and Mrs H also say that Lloyds  also mis-sold  them the Premier account - Lloyds doesnt 
agree that it did. 
Our adjudicators looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. They  thought the settlement 
payment Lloyds had made to Mr and Mrs H was fair and that the Premier account hadnt  
been mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman  to look at their complaint and make  a 
final decision.
It looks like one of Mr and Mrs Hs main concerns is that they felt they were given no choice 
but to accept they needed to upgrade to the Premier account in order  to keep their overdraft 
facility  which was an important consideration for them at the time. And theyre  unhappy 
that our adjudicator  felt that having a £500  interest  free overdraft facility was much use to 
someone with a five figure overdraft set up. 
They also say that they didnt need most of the other benefits the account offered as this 
duplicated cover  they had already.  For instance, they say that they didnt need more travel  
insurance  and their age meant that the travel  insurance that came with the Premier 
account wasnt much use to them anyway. 
Mr and Mrs H were also unhappy that Lloyds wasnt willing  to accept responsibility for 
dealing with their complaint  about  what happened  when they tried to claim under the Home  
Emergency Cover policy that came with the account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
decide Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Ref: DRN21100412After thinking  carefully about everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Gold Account 
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account  everything that Mr and Mrs H have said in 
response to our adjudicators assessments  including  the fact that they dont think  that 
Lloyds correctly worked out the payment it made to settle their complaint about the Gold  
account. Mr and Mrs H think Lloyds shouldve  calculated  the settlement payment  it made to 
them using an earlier start date.
Its unfortunate that Lloyds cant say exactly when Mr and Mrs Hs account was first 
upgraded. But this happened so long ago that we wouldnt expect either Lloyds or 
Mr and Mrs H still to hold records from this time.
Lloyds repaid Mr and Mrs H the Gold account  fees they paid (plus interest)  from November 
1995. Our adjudicator has explained  that this date was picked as its the mid-point between 
the date the account was introduced and the first date that appears on Lloyds records  
showing that Mr and Mrs H had a Gold account. I think the approach Lloyds took was 
reasonable and in line with what this service would expect to see.
Platinum Account 
Lloyds also refunded all the Platinum account fees plus 8% interest  in-line with our 
guidelines. I think thats fair and reasonable. Our adjudicator checked that Mr and Mrs H 
were happy  with the way Lloyds had settled this part of their complaint and it appears  this 
aspect is resolved to Mr and Mrs Hs satisfaction.  
Premier account 
Lloyds sold Mr and Mrs H a Premier account  in 2011.
Mr and Mrs H told us it was Lloyds decision to reduce their overdraft facility that prompted 
their complaint in the first place. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that this is a reason for me 
to uphold their complaint.  Lloyds account  terms and conditions  allow  it to do this  and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest it didnt act fairly  and reasonably in contacting Mr and Mrs H about 
reducing their overdraft. 
In order to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the way Lloyds sold them  the Premier 
account, Id need to see information showing that Lloyds changed  their account without 
giving Mr and Mrs H a fair choice about whether  they wanted to do this. I need to look at all 
the available  information and decide  what I think is most likely. 
I havent seen  enough information to be able to say that Lloyds put Mr and Mrs H under 
pressure to agree to upgrade their account just to keep  their overdraft facility. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  Mr and Mrs H to recall in detail exactly what was discussed during a 
phone call so many years ago. Overall, what Ive been told isnt enough for me to be able to 
say that its most likely that Lloyds misled Mr and Mrs H into believing  they had to upgrade in 
order to keep their overdraft facility.  
Ref: DRN21100413I dont know what was discussed during the phone call when Mr and Mrs H changed to a 
Premier account  or how the overdraft facility was explained to them. But I think that 
Mr and Mrs H wouldve  been aware that other accounts offering overdrafts were also 
available. And they couldve looked around  for a different account or explored  different ways 
to borrow money on a flexible basis if they hadnt wanted to take advantage of the features  
the Premier account  offered.  I havent  seen anything to suggest they did this at the time. 
Given the extent  of their overdraft requirements, and the importance of this account feature 
so far as Mr and Mrs H were concerned, I think they wouldve valued  having the £500 
interest free portion  of the overdraft. I think they mightve reasonably expected  this could 
save them  quite a significant amount of money  overall. And it looks  like the Premier account 
offered them  significantly  better overdraft  terms than they had on their existing  Platinum 
account. So I can see why they mightve  wanted to upgrade to take advantage of this 
account feature  at the time. On balance, I think its likely they chose to upgrade to the 
Premier account knowing it was up to them  to say if they wanted to do this  and their 
account was changed to a Premier  account  at their request. 
 
Lloyds recommended the Premier account  to Mr and Mrs H. So Ive looked carefully at what 
else the account offered, in addition to the overdraft benefits discussed above, to see if this 
was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs H. And Ive also thought about whether 
Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H enough  clear information  to be able to decide  if the account  was 
right for them. 
Lloyds records appear to show that on 6 January 2011 the account was changed to the 
Premier to enable Mr and Mrs H to take advantage  of the travel  insurance and ID Aware  
benefits. ID Aware was an exclusive benefit of the Premier account. So it looks  like this was 
something they mightve valued at the time  and I can understand why Mr and Mrs H 
mightve wanted to take steps to minimise  the risk of being  victims  of identity fraud.  
When Mr and Mrs H upgraded  to the Premier  account it also included, amongst other things. 
benefits such as home  emergency cover and breakdown cover.  So Ive thought about 
whether these were  suitable benefits for Mr and Mrs H taking into account their particular 
circumstances and their needs  and requirements  for this sort of cover.
Mr and Mrs H told us that they already had most of the insurance benefits the account 
offered in place  with other companies.  And Ive taken  into account that Mr and Mrs H dont 
feel the travel insurance offered them any particularly useful benefit. But that doesnt  mean  
the Premier account  wasnt  a suitable  recommendation  for them overall. Mr and Mrs H 
couldve cancelled any other insurance that they no longer required once theyd decided to 
upgrade to a Premier account.  
As homeowners,  I think the home emergency cover  was a useful benefit for Mr and Mrs H. 
And Lloyds  says it only offered this as part of the Premier account. I cant fairly say it wasnt  
something that was of no use to Mr and Mrs H because  it looks  like they later wanted  to rely 
on this cover to make  a claim. 
Im sorry  that Mr and Mrs H were unhappy about what happened when they did this. But 
I think its fair for Lloyds  to say that this is a matter Mr and Mrs H should  take up direct with 
the service provider. Lloyds wasnt directly  responsible for dealing with claims under the 
policy. So a complaint about how a claim was handled isnt something Id reasonably  expect 
it to be able to deal with.
Ref: DRN21100414Mr and Mrs H were car owners. So I can see why they mightve wanted to have breakdown 
cover. And it looks like they later relied  on this cover on a couple of occasions.  So, looked  at 
overall, I think the account was suitable for Mr and Mrs H.  
I dont think its likely  that Lloyds told Mr and Mrs H about all of the significant  features and 
exclusions that affected all of the insurance  benefits. But I havent  seen  anything  in their 
circumstances to suggest that they wouldve been  significantly affected  by any of the policy  
limitations at the time they agreed to upgrade. Even taking  into account Mr and Mrs Hs age, 
I think the travel insurance still offered them a reasonable period of cover. 
Ive looked at all the information provided  about  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. And Ive thought 
about everything theyve said. But having  done so, I dont think that having  clearer 
information about the various policy benefits wouldve put them  off taking out the Premier 
account  or that Lloyds has treated them unfairly  overall. 
my final decision
This means  that, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2110041