K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold  him a mortgage  payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  December  
2018. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat 
that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  Mr S accepted my provisional 
decision with no further comments and Santander didnt respond.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent  received anything to make  me think differently  I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. 
It follows that I uphold  this complaint.
putting things right
Santander should put Mr S in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out the MPPI  
policy. The policy  should  be cancelled, if it hasnt  been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr S the amount  he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Santander  to take off tax from this interest. Santander must give 
Mr S a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  I uphold this complaint and require 
Santander UK Plc to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20183042EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED DECEMBER 2018
background
This complaint is about  a regular premium MPPI policy taken out with a mortgage in May 1992. Mr S 
applied for the MPPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator initially  didnt  uphold  the complaint. Mr S provided some more information, and then 
Santander agreed to refund part of the premiums Mr S had paid. The adjudicator thought  that was fair 
and told Mr S about it. 
Mr S maintained that the policy was mis-sold, so he asked for an ombudsman to review the sale of 
the MPPI and the offer made by Santander. So the case has been passed to me. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case. 
Im currently  planning to uphold Mr Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
Santander recommended the policy  to Mr S but I dont think it was right for him.
As our adjudicator  explained, Mr S paid around £6.95 per £100 benefit payable under  the PPI policy. 
Although theres  no records available  from the time the policy started, the earliest records available  
from around a year later  show that Mr S was paying £41.70 for the PPI. This would equate to just 
under a £700  benefit payment.
It looks as though Mr Ss mortgage  repayment  was just under  £350 when he first started  repaying it. 
The MPPIs policy terms allowed for an increased  benefit to cover life insurance payments, plus an 
additional 20% of the mortgage payment for other expenses.
So the £700 cover that it looks like Mr S was paying for was way above what the policys terms 
allowed for. So if hed needed to claim, I think  its possible  that Mr S mightve faced  a problem in 
claiming what hed been paying for. 
I dont think Mr S wouldve  taken  the MPPI  policy with £700 cover if hed known about  this. And I dont 
think it was fair for Santander to recommend a policy with this level of benefit, for the reason  Ive 
explained above. And I think Mr S has lost out because of that.
Ive taken into account Santanders comments, and Ive considered  the partial  refund of premiums it 
made in recognition of the additional benefit Mr S paid for, in comparison with the benefit that it says 
Mr S shouldve paid for.
But I dont think thats fair. Theres no way of knowing  what decision Mr S wouldve made if Santander  
had made  an appropriate recommendation, or if hed received the right information about  the cover at 
the time of sale. And in those circumstances, its fair and reasonable to conclude that Mr S wouldnt 
have taken the policy  at all.
Ref: DRN2018304