K822xcomplaint
Mr H is unhappy with how HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have dealt with a claim for a VAT 
refund on a watch he purchased while on holiday.
background 
In March 2017, Mr H purchased a watch while on holiday and used his HSBC  credit card to 
make the purchase. He was told by the retailer that, as a tourist, he could claim back the 
VAT. So he filled in and submitted the necessary forms. Mr H paid off his credit card 
balance, but the VAT wasnt refunded. 
In April 2018 he complained to HSBC  about this and asked them to claim back  the VAT he 
shouldve had refunded. HSBC made the claim,  and in July 2018 they refunded  the full cost 
of the watch to Mr Hs credit card while the claim was being considered. This put the account  
into a credit balance.
In October  2018, HSBC  told Mr H that he couldnt  have a credit balance on his account so 
he transferred the credit  balance to another bank account. Thinking the matter was now 
closed, Mr H spent the credit balance.
But the retailer challenged the refund and in December 2018 HSBC reversed the refund 
theyd applied. This put the credit card into a debit balance and interest  was charged.  
Because Mr H didnt make any payments to the credit card, late payment charges  were also 
added.
Mr H has complained that HSBC refunded the full cost of the watch, when it was only the 
VAT amount that was in dispute. Hes also unhappy  that HSBC  reinstated  the debt without  
telling him, and then applied  interest and charges.
Our adjudicator found HSBC had provided  a misleading picture of Mr Hs finances. This 
couldve been avoided  had they only requested a refund of the VAT element and told Mr H 
that the full refund theyd  credited was subject  to an ongoing claim and could be recalled. 
But she didnt think it was reasonable for HSBC to refund the full cost of the watch as Mr H 
still has this. HSBC have  offered  to:
Refund the late payment fees and interest charged.
Correct Mr Hs credit file so it doesnt  show any missed payments.
Charge 0% interest  on the £5,957.62 Mr H was refunded for 12 months,  to allow  him 
a reasonable amount of time to repay this amount.
Reduce the outstanding balance by £200 as compensation  for the trouble  and upset 
caused.
The adjudicator agreed this was a reasonable offer and didnt think  HSBC  should do 
anything more.
While Mr H agreed with the fee and interest  refund, and his credit file being  corrected, he 
didnt think that £200 reflected the distress and inconvenience hed been caused. He offered 
to pay HSBC 50% of the outstanding balance (after the fees and interest and been refunded)  
as a full and final settlement of the debt. HSBC didnt accept this offer, so its been passed  to 
me to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN28152102my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy  of the Customer Dispute  Declaration Form Mr H completed  on 23 March 
2018. On this form he ticked a box to say I havent  received something I ordered  Goods  or 
services not received. Theres nothing on this form to say it was just the VAT refund he 
hadnt received.  But HSBCs system notes show Mr H was disputing [the purchase] for VAT 
refund. So I cant say that HSBC didnt know it was just the VAT element  that was in 
dispute, not the whole value of the transaction. 
But HSBC  started a claim for the whole transaction,  refunding Mr H the full purchase price of 
the watch. And they didnt  tell Mr H that the refund had been made while the claim was 
ongoing; so if the claim  was refused  theyd  take back  the amount theyd refunded him. I 
agree with the adjudicator  that HSBC couldve done better.
Mr H told HSBC that he changed address on 26 June  2018. HSBC wrote to Mr H on 4 July 
2018, telling  him that the full purchase  price had been refunded;  on 9 October to ask him to 
move the credit balance  from his credit card; and on 12 November 2018 to tell him that the 
claim had been  rejected,  and the credit  to his account would be recalled. These  letters were 
all sent to Mr Hs new address.
HSBC say they also sent Mr H credit  card statements in December 2018,  January and 
February 2019, which showed an outstanding balance because of the recalled refund. But, 
because no payments were received, HSBC added  interest and charges to the outstanding 
balance. I cant say they were wrong in doing  this.
Mr H says hed moved  home  again  and had arranged for his post to be redirected. But he 
says he didnt receive anything from HSBC about  the recalled refund or the outstanding 
balance on the credit card, and this is why he didnt make any payments. He also says the 
first time he became aware  of the problem was when  he received a letter  from HSBC, dated  
18 February 2019, asking him to contact them. While  I cant  say what letters  Mr H would or 
wouldnt have received, I can say that he wouldnt have been expecting  HSBC to recall  the 
refund in December  2018, some five months after the refund was first made.
I agree  that HSBC  should offer Mr H some compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
by their error  in claiming back the incorrect  amount, and in their failure to tell Mr H that the 
amount refunded could be recalled. But Mr H still has the watch  he bought,  so I think  he 
should be responsible for paying for this. He hasnt  received his VAT refund, but I cant hold 
HSBC responsible for this as they had no involvement in the VAT refund scheme.  
So I dont  think that HSBC need  to accept Mr Hs offer of a 50% payment in full and final 
settlement of the outstanding balance.  I think the offer theyve made was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances, so I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Ref: DRN28152103putting things right
HSBC Bank  Plc should:
Refund the late payment fees and interest charged associated  with the December 
2018, January  2019 and February 2019  statements.
Correct Mr Hs credit file so it doesnt  show that the December 2018, January  and 
February 2019 payments were missed.
Charge 0% interest  on the £5,957.62 Mr H was refunded for the next 12 months.
Reduce Mr Hs outstanding balance by £200 to reflect the trouble and upset they 
caused him.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Hs complaint. HSBC Bank Plc must follow the 
directions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2815210