complaint
Mr R complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.
background
Mr R was given two loans  by Cashfloat one in July 2017 and one in July 2018. Mr Rs 
complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think Cashfloat  should 
have agreed to give the second loan to Mr R. So he asked Cashfloat to pay Mr R some 
compensation.
Disappointingly Cashfloat didnt respond  to that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt 
been resolved  informally,  it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the 
last stage of our process. If Mr R accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that
Mr R could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN23450772Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending, and 
later the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC),  define sustainable  as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Cashfloat asked  Mr R for some information  about his income and his expenditure before 
agreeing the loans.  And it gathered further  details about Mr R finances by performing a 
credit check  before each  loan too. On the face of it I think these were a reasonable set of 
checks given the length of the relationship that Mr R had with Cashfloat, and considering the 
loans he was asking  to take.
For the first loan I think these checks were  enough  and Cashfloat  wasnt wrong to give Mr R 
the loan on the basis of what  he said about  his finances and what  the checks revealed.
 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt enough. A lender must also react 
appropriately to the information that any checks show.  And I think the checks  that Cashfloat 
did, and in particular  the results of the credit  check for the second loan, should have 
suggested that Mr R was facing financial problems.
When Mr R asked for his second loan Cashfloats checks  showed that he had opened 30 
new accounts in the previous six months  and owed £1336 in short term repayments around 
the same  time that he would need  to make a repayment to Cashfloat.
I think that the extent  of Mr Rs other short term borrowing should have put Cashfloat on 
notice that he was having serious problems managing his money. I dont think it was 
reasonable for Cashfloat to conclude  that this second loan could be repaid in a sustainable  
manner.
putting things right
I dont think Cashfloat  should have agreed to give the second loan to Mr R. So for this loan 
Cashfloat should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr R on the loan.
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Mr R a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN23450773My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Western Circle Ltd to put things 
right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2345077