K822xcomplaint
Mr Z has complained GAIN Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream,  is holding  him liable for 
two loans he didnt  apply for in 2018.
background 
After applying for a loan with his bank, Mr Z was told his credit record  showed  a number of 
loans and credit cards.  Hed never  applied for these. Two of these loans were with Lending 
Stream. Mr Z also reported these  loans to the police.
Lending Stream had received a fixed-sum loan application online in Mr Zs name  in 
January 2018.  Theyd assessed  this and granted a loan for £400.  The money for the loan 
was then paid into Mr Zs joint bank account. A further loan for £480 was then applied  for in 
April 2018.
Mr Z held a joint account with his wife at a bank  Ill call S. This account had been opened in 
October 2014 and both Mr Z and his wife, Ms A, held debit cards for the account. Mr Z said 
he didnt know this account was still active.
Payments had been made towards  the first loan although £200 was still outstanding in June 
2019. Fewer repayments had been made  towards  the second loan. Nearly  £780 remained 
outstanding.
As it became clear Ms A had applied for these loans rather than Mr Z, Mr Z made sure the 
lender knew this. A letter confirming Ms A accepted responsibility for the loans; had taken 
them out without  her husbands  knowledge and would set up arrangements to repay  them 
was written to Lending Stream  in February  2019.
As Mr Z hadnt  received a final response from Lending Stream  within the required timescale,  
he wanted the ombudsman service to consider his complaint.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. She felt overall the evidence pointed  to Ms A having 
applied for the loans.  It was her telephone number and email address on the loan 
application. By this stage  Lending Stream accepted the loans hadnt been taken out by Mr Z. 
Ms A had made payment  arrangements  with them. They offered to remove  reference to 
these loans from Mr Zs credit record once these had been repaid. Our investigator didnt 
believe this was fair. As she was satisfied theyd transferred ownership of the loans, she 
asked Lending  Stream to remove any reference to the loans from Mr Zs credit  record and 
pay him £150 for the inconvenience.
Lending Stream accepted this outcome.
Mr Z disagreed and has asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. He felt the 
compensation didnt take into account  the impact on him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, Ive reached  the same  
outcome as our investigator. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN20247452The outcome on this complaint revolves  around  whether Mr Z applied for the loans.  
loan applications
There is no dispute that the loan applications  were made  in Mr Zs name. However the email  
and phone details  all belonged to Ms A. That doesnt alone mean Mr Z was unaware  of 
these loans. He could have deliberately made  the application using his wifes personal 
details. However looking  at the other loans Mr Z has also complained  about,  it seems clear 
there is a pattern of loans being  applied for by Ms A using  Mr Zs name. 
I also note in the case of these  loans Ms A told Lending Stream  shed taken them  out. There  
are also telephone calls between Ms A and Lending Stream discussing repayment. Ive also 
seen a letter  where she accepts responsibility for the loans and confirms she set them up 
without Mr Zs knowledge  or permission.
Lending Stream accepts  Mr Z didnt apply for these loans. Repayment  plan for both loans  
have been set up with Ms A. One loan will be repaid in 2020 and the other  in 2021.  
Lending Stream also agree theyve taken  steps  to transfer ownership of these loans to Ms A. 
In this case I dont believe  it would be fair and reasonable for Lending Stream  to continue to 
lodge information about these agreements on Mr Zs credit record.
compensation
Our investigator felt that £150 was a fair amount  for Lending Stream  to pay Mr Z. I agree 
with her. I say this partly as I dont  think it would have  been wrong  initially  for Lending 
Stream to have thought Mr Z had applied for these  loans. It is not our role to punish lenders.
Also Ms A applied  for a number of loans in Mr Zs name. It isnt just these two loans which  
has caused issues with his credit record.  
Im also aware that money from these loans  was paid into the joint account  with S. Ive 
looked at the detail  of the transactions on this account from June 2017 to August  2018. This 
was very much  run as a household account  and contained card payments to supermarkets 
and retailers, direct debits  for household bills including Council  Tax, child tax credits,  direct 
debits for numerous  loans, transfers between Ms As sole account with S and this account 
and payments for what looks like childcare  or nursery fees.
Mr Z has told us he knew this account  had been  opened but thought it only operated as a 
savings account  for their son. But I can see he used the debit card he held for this account  
as recently as March  2018. 
Theres no doubt these  loans, along  with others,  would have resulted in quite a deal of 
paperwork. Mr Z has told us that his wife managed the family finances and that, in itself,  isnt 
an unusual arrangement. But for Ms A to have successfully hidden  all this activity  from Mr Z 
would have meant quite a lot of subterfuge. Its difficult to imagine this wouldnt have been  
noticed by Mr Z. I appreciate hes told us that he believed his wife earned  more than him 
which explained why there was the money available that resulted from these loans.
So taking everything into consideration I believe £150 compensation is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN20247453my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  GAIN  Credit LLC,  trading as 
Lending Stream, to:
Stop pursuing Mr Z for repayment of the two loans taken out by his wife (and which  
his wife is now repaying);
Remove these two loans from Mr Zs credit  record; and
Pay Mr Z £150 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2024745