K821x#15complaint
Mr G1 and Mr G2 as executors of the estate of Mr G3 complain  that Skipton Financial 
Services Ltd failed  to arrange for investments to be placed in trust as they shouldve done.
background
Mr G3 saw an adviser at the end of 2005 to discuss how he could mitigate his potential IHT 
liability. The financial  planning report sent to Mr G3 by letter  dated  3 January 2006 recorded  
that he had around  £127,000 in deposit accounts,  £206,000 in life assurance  bonds, 
£92,000 in PEPs and ISAs and £105,000 in Unit Trusts/Investments Trusts/Shares. The total 
of his estate came to just over £819,000.
The adviser calculated  a potential IHT liability of just over £218,000 and advised that Mr G3 
should; put £270,000  into a Potentially  Exempt Transfer (PET);  take out a term assurance 
policy for seven years  for £105,600  to provide cover on the PET until the gifts were exempt; 
take out a whole of life (WOL) policy for £110,592  the balance of IHT payable after 
allowing for the PET and nil rate band at the time of £273,000..
The report  shows that Mr G3 didnt  want either  of the recommended  life policies but 
accepted the advice  about the PET. It is recorded  that he was going  to give £200,000  of 
existing bonds  either  directly or into trust to his grandchildren and that the adviser 
recommended that he invest  a further  £70,000 in three new bonds to be held in trust.
Mr G3 died in July 2018 and in administering his estate Mr G1 and Mr G2 became aware  
that not all the investments they thought  had been placed in trust had been put in trust. They 
also didnt think that the right beneficiaries  had been  put on some of the trust documents. It 
was clarified that one of the bonds that it was thought hadnt been placed  in trust had been, 
but that the trust document had been put against a different  account  by mistake and this was 
then rectified. 
The main  remaining issue was with regard to one particular bond   the Friends Provident 
bond  which Mr G1 and Mr G2 said hadnt been put in trust as it shouldve been.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and noted the adviser, in a letter dated 
6 June 2006, had said the Friends Provident  bond  had been put in trust. But she said that on 
a balance of probabilities, despite the letter, the bond hadnt  been put in trust. She thought  
that Skipton  should pay the estate  the additional  IHT payable and the costs it had incurred in 
relation to sorting things out.
Mr G1 said he was generally  happy with the investigators opinion  but said that further  
evidence of Skipton  getting things wrong  is that of the five investments that were supposed 
to be in trust for the grandchildren  only one had been put in trust in 2006.  And all three  trust 
documents for the sons  investments showed the wrong beneficiaries.
Skipton didnt agree with the investigator. It said that it was never responsible for the 
Friends Provident bond as it had not provided  advice about this. It said it isnt fair it has been  
asked to pay the IHT bill of around £15,000.
The investigator responded and pointed to the letter from Skipton in June 2006 which 
referred to the policy being held in Trust which she thought indicated its involvement with 
that investment.
Ref: DRN21266042Skipton said that there was no evidence about  the Friends Provident bond or that this was to 
be held in trust. And that the only reference to the bond was an administrative error.
As Skipton didnt  agree with the investigator  the matter has been referred to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the executors initially had various  concerns about what Skipton had done  on behalf 
of Mr G3, the main issue that remains for me to decide is about whether  it did anything 
wrong with regard to the Friends Provident bond. 
Although the financial  report I have seen  from January 2006 is clear about  the three new 
bonds the adviser recommended  to Mr G3 being placed in trust, it doesnt identify which  
existing bonds  were to be placed in trust. 
But although  the documentation  is limited I am satisfied that the advisers involvement with 
what happened isnt limited to what is set out in the suitability  report.  I think it is more likely 
than not the adviser was involved in arranging various trusts, both for existing bonds and the 
three she recommended. I have  seen a trust deed  for at least  one existing bond that was 
completed in December 2005 with her named as the witness  to the signatures  of the 
trustees. 
I think it is more  likely that not Mr G3 wouldve relied  on the adviser to ensure the necessary 
documents were  completed to put in pace the trusts  that were necessary to take the bonds  
out of his estate  in line with the recommendation made by the adviser in relation to the PET.  
I think it is unlikely that she acted just as a witness to the trusts Mr G3 wanted  to establish.
There is no trust deed for the Friends Provident bond and I am mindful that Mr G3 didnt 
necessarily intend  to gift all of his investments  - the financial  report referred to him gifting 
some of his bonds  either directly or by way of trust.  And I note he cancelled one of the 
recommended bonds  that he intended to be held in trust in the 14 day cancellation period. 
So I accept  that what he was going to do wasnt set in stone when he initially  saw the 
adviser.
But although  the adviser didnt identify the existing  bonds in her report, she wrote  to Mr G3 
on 6 June 2006 to confirm  the details of the various bonds that had been put in trust.  I note 
that Skipton  has stated  that it didnt have  agency of this bond so cannot  accept  fault for the 
bond and the matter  should be taken up with the financial  advisers  that did hold agency.  It 
said it isnt fair it has to pay redress as it has never provided advice about this bond.
I dont agree with Skipton on this point.  The adviser  clearly gave advice for Mr G3 to make a 
PET of £270,000  which included gifting £200,000 of existing bonds some  at least of which  
were to be placed in trust. So I think she provided advice about those existing bonds 
whether or not Skipton was named as agent. 
I dont think Skipton had to be named  as the agent  responsible for the Friends Provident 
bond for it to be responsible for ensuring  that the bond was placed  in trust, if that is what 
Mr G3 wanted. 
Ref: DRN21266043Given he was told the Friends Provident  bond  was in trust and there  is nothing  to show that 
he told the adviser he didnt want that I think it is more likely than not he did want  the bond in 
trust. Mr G1 has also referred to the trustees  - rather than just Mr G3 -contacting  Friends 
Provident to withdraw  £7,000. This suggests  Mr G3 and the trustees believed the bond to be 
in trust. 
The only evidence in relation to whether a trust was created  is the letter of 6 June 2006  
which states that the Friends Provident  bond was placed in trust. If the letter  is accurate and 
there was a trust then arguably  the adviser did nothing wrong, despite there being no trust 
document available now to prove the trust existed. So I have to decide how likely it is the 
adviser said there was a trust in place when there wasnt.
The provider has said it has no record of ever been contacted with regard to a trust for the 
Friends Provident bond. It points out it doesnt need to be given a copy  of the trust document  
for the trust to be effective   although obviously there would need to be some proof of the 
trust for it to take effect. Although  I accept that a copy of the trust document  didnt need to be 
sent to the provider it would be good  practice to send a copy  and I wouldve expected the 
adviser to do this if a trust had been  created.
Im also mindful that there are inaccuracies within the letter of 6 June  2006.  The adviser 
referred to a Skandia  bond being in trust, but this was surrendered before being placed in 
trust some time before the letter was sent. The letter  also refers to Mr G1 and Mr G2 being  
the beneficiaries  under  a Legal & General  bond  when the trust document  I have seen shows 
the grandchildren as beneficiaries.
So I think it is more likely  than not that a trust wasnt actually put in place for the Friends 
Provident bond, despite the reference to a trust in the letter  of 6 June 2006.
I note that Skipton suggested in its letter of 22 November 2018 to Mr G that the letter  of 
6 June 2006 was the intended action of Mr G3 rather than a definitive  action. But the letter  
was sent six months  after Mr G3 initially saw the adviser and starts by saying that the 
adviser was writing to confirm the details of the trusts that Mr G3 had set up and then lists 
the bonds that have now been placed  in trust.
The letter also refers to what had actually  happened to a Standard  Life bond which a trust 
document had been completed for but which  had been cancelled   because  the bond  had 
been surrendered instead. So if he had intended that the Friends  Provident bond would be 
placed in trust but then changed his mind I wouldve expected there  to be a similar  
reference. So Im satisfied the letter  is meant to have informed Mr G3 of what had actually 
happened.
I think this complaint is finely balanced  because  there is very little evidence available  to 
show what the adviser did and didnt do. But I am persuaded that Mr G3 had intended that 
the Friends Provident bond should be placed in trust by the adviser and that she didnt action 
this despite what  she stated in the letter of 6 June 2006.
I note that Skipton has suggested that mention  of the Friends Provident  bond in the 6 June 
2006 letter  was an administrative error. I accept that there  were  other  errors in the letter  so it 
is possible this is a possibility. But even if the adviser had included  mention of the Friends  
Provident bond by mistake   in that it wasnt originally intended it should be placed in trust - I 
would still find Skipton responsible for the additional IHT payable by the estate.
Ref: DRN21266044This is because Mr G3 is likely to have relied  on what  the adviser had said about what  was 
and wasnt in trust in determining  his potential IHT liability. And he wouldve assumed the 
bond was in trust so that he wouldve thought he didnt need to worry about potential IHT in 
relation to it or take any other action in relation to it such as making an outright gift.
Although the issue about the Skipton bond is the main issue in this complaint one other 
issue is that another bond  the AXA bond  was put in trust but the trust document  was put 
against a different account so that initially the estate  treated the bond as if IHT was payable 
on it. It was then established that the bond  was placed in trust so that IHT wasnt  payable on 
it and this had to be rectified  by the executors. 
I asked Skipton whether the mistake  over the trust was the result  of something the provider 
did wrong or the adviser.  Skipton confirmed it looked this was an adviser error as the 
provider had contacted the adviser because of an issue  but the adviser didnt pick this up.  
What Skipton  should to put things right.
If the Friends Life bond had been put in trust it would have fallen out of Mr G2s estate at the 
time of his death  in July 2018 and so wouldnt have been subject to IHT. So I think Skipton 
should pay the IHT payable by the estate  on the value of the bond.
The executors have referred to the costs  they have incurred in resolving  the issues  over the 
Friends Provident bond and AXA bond.  They  have  indicated  the costs  relating to the Friends 
Provident bond are very limited but that the estates solicitor has suggested a figure of £850 
for dealing  with the issues in relation to the AXA bond. But I have seen no evidence  of this.
I think Skipton should pay the estates reasonable costs of dealing with the issues around the 
two bonds upon the executors  providing evidence of those costs to Skipton.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  set out. Skipton Financial Services Ltd has to 
pay the redress I have  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G1 and Mr G2 
as the executors of the estate of Mr G3 to accept  or reject my decision before 
25 October 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2126604