K820x#14complaint
Mrs W, on behalf of the estate of Mr W, complains that the value of his whole-of-life 
insurance plan with Zurich Assurance Ltd was less than the total premiums paid for it.
background
Mr W took out a whole-of-life insurance  plan provided in 1992. The plan was a without profits 
policy and it provided  a sum assured  of 150% of the total premiums up to the date of death, 
which increased to £3,066  when  the plan had been  in place for two years. The premiums  of 
£12 a month were  paid until August  2007, when the plan was made paid-up.
Mr W sadly passed away in 2010.
In 2018, Mrs W became aware  of this plan when  Zurich  wrote to Mr W. When Mrs W 
provided the details  that hed passed away, Zurich  sent Mrs W a cheque for £229 as the 
death benefit of the plan.
But Mrs W returned the cheque believing it to be an insult. She explained about Mr Ws ill 
health and that hed not been in a fit condition to respond to any letters from Zurich at the 
time the premiums stopped being paid. She said the policy conditions said that it would have 
a cash surrender value  after five years  and asked that Zurich refund the present value of the 
premiums Mr W had paid.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  He 
said that Mr W had stopped paying  the premiums for the plan in 2007 and Zurich had written 
to him saying that the plan had become  paid-up with its death  benefit would be £229.  Mr W 
had returned this letter with a note saying that hed cancelled  the plan six months before and 
asking for confirmation  of this.
The investigator said the terms of the plan were that it would be converted  to a paid-up 
policy if the premiums went unpaid. He didnt think Zurich had acted  unfairly.
Mrs W didnt accept the investigators findings.  She said her husband had been  very ill and 
was unable to function properly when  the payments to the plan stopped  he wasnt fully 
responsible for his actions during this time. She said dealing with the insurance  this way was 
completely out of character for him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the late Mr Ws health deterioration and the impact  this had in the 
years before he passed away.  I can appreciate  this will have been very difficult  for Mrs W 
and how the circumstances of whats happened with this whole-of-life plan will have caused 
her upset. I can also see how Zurichs  offer of counselling wasnt  appropriate  - it has 
apologised specifically  for this.
Ive looked over all of the information Zurich has provided about the late Mr Ws whole-of-life 
plan; including  his application form and the letters from the time the premiums  stopped  and it 
was made  paid-up.
Ref: DRN29837712Zurich sent Mr W a letter in January 2008 which confirmed that the plan had been made paid 
up because of the non-payment of the premiums  and that the reduced sum assured was 
£229. It gave details of how the plan could be reinstated  within 12 months. Mr W returned  
this letter  with a signed, hand-written note that said Please  note that I cancelled this policy  6 
months ago. Kindly  confirm cancellation . Zurich  replied  to say that the plan was paid-up and 
no further premiums would be requested.
I do understand what Mrs W has told about  Mr Ws health during this specific  time. But I 
cant say that Zurich has acted unfairly or unreasonably  in relation to Mr Ws whole-of-life  
plan when it seems to have acted  in accordance with his instructions. It doesnt seem  that it 
was made  aware  of his ill health; hed stopped  paying the premiums  for the provision  of 
cover the plan gave;  and hed told it to confirm the plan had been  cancelled. 
Ive looked at the policy provisions and these say: If any premium remains  unpaid  after the 
due date or, if applicable, the days of grace this Policy will lapse.  Provided  always that where 
5 full years  premiums have been  paid the policy will be converted  into a paid-up  Policy 
subject to such premiums being  sufficient to secure  a reduced Sum Assured of at least  
£100.
The premiums for the plan were to pay for the on-going  cost of life cover while  it was in 
place, and the sum assured was based  on these continuing to be paid throughout Mr Ws 
life. When these stopped, the plan became paid-up  with the sum assured (death benefit) 
being based on the premiums that had been paid up to that point.  
I know that this will be disappointing for Mrs W, and Im sorry for that. But I dont think Zurich  
should be required to refund the premiums Mr W paid towards the plan.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W on behalf of 
the estate of the Mr W, to accept or reject  my decision before 14 July 2019. 
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2983771