K821x#15complaint
Miss F says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) shouldnt  have provided 
her with instalment  loans  because she was in a debt spiral and these loans werent  
affordable for her. 
background
Miss F took 1 running account credit facility and 5 instalment loans from Sunny between  
December 2014  and December 2015. A summary  of Miss Fs borrowing, based on the 
information provided to us by Sunny, can be found in the table below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived dateactual 
repayment  
datenumber  of 
instalmentsMax monthly 
contractual  
repayments
1* £500.00 02/12/2014 28/02/2015 open ended £192.90
2 £100.00 21/02/2015 28/08/2015 6 £33.25
3 £100.00 23/02/2015 28/08/2015 6 £33.30
4 £200.00 25/04/2015 28/10/2015 6 £66.69
5 £350.00 01/09/2015 26/02/2016 6 £113.53
6 £600.00 31/12/2015 27/06/2016 6 £195.30
*this is the running  account credit facility. The maximum monthly  repayment  has been  
calculated on the basis that Miss F drew down up to her credit limit of £500  and repaid the 
balance over 5 months. 
So although  Miss F actually only had 5 instalment loans,  Ive considered the lending  chain 
as one, and Ive used the above numbering system when looking at these loans. 
In Sunnys response to Miss Fs complaint, it offered  to refund the interest fees and charges 
that were added for loan 1 and add 8% simple interest to the refund. It said no adverse credit  
file information  had been reported, so it wasnt making an offer to update her credit file about 
loan 1. 
In our adjudicators most recent findings  she believed the offer for loan 1 was fair, so she 
wasnt going to make any further  findings about  this loan.  She also thought  Sunny had 
treated Miss F fairly when  it provided loans 2  5. So she made no award against Sunny for 
these loans. 
However, the adjudicator didnt think the sixth loan - shouldve been provided. The 
adjudicator felt that by that by this point a pattern of lending  had been established which  
shouldve indicated to Sunny that Miss F wasnt able to sustainably  make her loan 
repayments.  
Miss F hasnt said whether he disagrees with the adjudicators most recent  findings.  
Sunny didnt accept  the adjudicators findings  because it said Miss F used these products as 
they had intended, and that the checks completed  showed that Miss F was able to afford  the 
repayments for loan 6. As no agreement could  be reached,  the case has been  passed to me 
for a final decision.  
Ref: DRN27724632my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  in order to figure out whether 
Miss F could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this 
in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough  checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So Sunny was required to establish  whether  Miss F could sustainably  repay  her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  Miss F could 
sustainably make her repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Fs complaint.  
As the adjudicator explained,  Sunny has made an offer for loan one that this service may 
have recommended had we considered it. So I wont be making a finding on that loan,  in this 
decision, although, I will be asking  Sunny  to pay what it has already agreed  to. 
There also doesnt appear to be any outstanding dispute about  whether loans 2  5 were 
granted irresponsibly, so I dont intend to make  a finding about  these  loans in this decision 
either. Instead Ill be focusing  on Sunnys  decision to provide loan 6. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss F, and I think  that 
Sunny should  reasonably have seen  that Miss F was unlikely to have been able to make her 
loan repayments  in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan six. I say this because:
Ref: DRN27724633by this stage, Miss F was into her twelfth month  of owing Sunny and she now had 
two loans running concurrently. In my view, Miss Fs loan history up until this point  
was in itself a clear  demonstration of Miss F was not using these  loans to cover a 
short term cash flow problem. 
Miss F continued to be provided  with new loans during  the time other loans were 
outstanding and when new loans were  taken these  tended to be taken up quickly  
after previous  loans had been  repaid.  For much  of the time Miss F was indebted to 
Sunny she also had as many as three  loans  running concurrently. And the amounts 
Miss F was borrowing were tending to increase. So Sunny ought to have realised it 
was more likely than not Miss F was having to borrow  further  to cover the hole the 
repayment of her previous loans left in her finances and that Miss Fs indebtedness 
was increasing unsustainably. 
Miss F wasnt  reducing the amounts she owed to Sunny. For example, loan 6 was 
taken out around 10 months after Miss Fs first instalment loan was approved, and 
this was six times the size.
 
So by this point,  I dont think it is relevant as to whether  Sunnys  checks indicated that 
Miss F could afford the loan, the pattern of lending in itself was an indication that the loan 
repayments were not sustainable for her. 
I think that Miss F lost out because when Sunny  provided loan 6 because:
the loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Fs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time; 
and
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Miss Fs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So Im partly upholding Miss Fs complaint and Sunny should  put things right as set out 
below.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss F paid on loans 1 and 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse credit information  recorded on Miss Fs credit file about loan 1
remove all entries about  loan 6 from Miss Fs credit file. The period of time Miss F 
owed Sunny money means that any information still recorded about loan this loan is 
adverse. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss F a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN27724634my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Miss Fs complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right for Miss F as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2772463