K821x#15complaint
Ms Rs complaint concerns the mismanagement  of her investment accounts by Cofunds 
Limited.
background
Ms R held several accounts  with three  intermediary firms, all of which  used Cofunds 
platform. In January 2018 she was told that one of these intermediaries would no longer be 
working with Cofunds.  So, she had to transfer  the accounts held with it to a new 
intermediary.
She chose  an alternative and arranged a transfer  request, which  was received by Cofunds in 
February 2018. Unfortunately, the transfer wasnt completed as intended. All the accounts 
that Ms R held across  all three intermediaries were  incorrectly transferred to the new 
intermediary. 
Although unhappy, Ms R accepted what had happened  and declined  Cofunds offer to 
correct the situation,  as she wished to avoid any further mistakes or confusion. But it then 
transpired that she was no longer able to access  or view any of her accounts. 
Ms R complained to Cofunds. This marked  the start of a lengthy  and complex  
correspondence between  the parties. (Her husband had also tried to transfer some accounts 
to the new intermediary, resulting in similar access issues. These have been dealt with as a 
separate complaint).
Cofunds acknowledged some failings in the service it had provided to Ms R - including a 
breakdown in communication, the provision of incorrect information, and problems with 
access to the accounts. But it insisted it had made  the transfer  to the new intermediary 
correctly as, although Ms R had only included one account number on the transfer form, she 
had ticked a box that indicated she wanted all her accounts transferred. Ms R disputed this 
on the basis that shed referenced only one intermediary, had included  a covering letter 
explaining that only one intermediary was being  transferred and had also taken advice from 
Cofunds in advance.
Despite the disagreement on this point,  Cofunds  paid Ms R compensation totalling £600,  
£50 in vouchers  and also made her the offer of a hamper.
Ms R didnt accept this. She felt additional compensation was warranted, particularly in 
respect of loss relating to her inability to trade from the accounts due to the access 
problems.
Ms R referred the complaint to this service, where it was considered by an investigator. In 
respect of the transfer to the new intermediary, the investigator concluded that Cofunds had 
acted incorrectly. She felt that the inclusion of the covering letter ought to have made Ms Rs 
intentions clear. But in any event, the information on the form itself wouldve been sufficiently 
ambiguous as to warrant Cofunds seeking  clarification before making the transfer. 
On the issue of the lack of access to the accounts  following  the erroneous  amalgamation,  
the investigator felt Cofunds handling  of the situation fell well short of reasonable standards, 
particular as it became  clear many months  later that the problem had been  an ongoing 
technical issue, meaning that earlier  reassurances  offered by Cofunds had been  misleading. 
Ref: DRN29647562In respect of Ms Rs inability to trade during  the period in question  the investigator explained 
that while she understood Ms Rs reticence to trade via the accounts due to the ongoing 
problems, alternatives  to on-line trading had nevertheless been available.  Without  evidence  
of specific hindered trades she didnt feel this issue could be fairly  compensated.
In conclusion, the investigator  felt that given  the seriousness of the problems caused to 
Ms R, Cofunds should increase its compensation by £650 to £1,300.
Ms R initially  broadly accepted the investigators view of the matter;  although  she felt that 
Cofunds failings  and provision of what she felt was misleading information  shouldve been 
described in stronger terms. She noted  the position  in respect of compensation for time 
spent attending  to the complaint  that this wouldnt be something this service  generally 
awarded  and also the reasoning for not being  able to support compensation of the loss of 
trading ability. She indicated her acceptance of the additional £650 of compensation. 
Cofunds didnt  accept the investigators view. In short, it maintained its view that it had 
completed the transfer of account  correctly.  And as such, it felt the level of compensation 
suggested by the investigator was too high. 
Ms R then added  further comment, reiterated a number of her previous points. She said, in 
brief: 
The main issue of concern was the lack of access to her accounts since April 2018 
and the inability to trade. 
The lack of a specific person at Cofunds to deal with her issues had led to her having  
to refer the complaint to this service.
Cofunds at first accepted that it acted  incorrectly in transferring all her accounts. It 
then changed  its position and communicated  this in a hostile and aggressive manner, 
which had continued into its response to the investigators view.
She disagrees with the investigators  view in respect of the inability to trade as there 
was no viable alternative.  
Although this services  general  approach was to not compensate  for time spent  on 
bringing a complaint,  this situation  had used up 67 working days  of her time.
Cofunds had continued to charge account  fees during  the period in question,  which 
should be refunded because the only reason she remained with Cofunds was 
because of the continued reassurance that access to the accounts would be 
restored. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has wholly accepted the investigators view of the complaint. But having looked 
carefully at everything, I find Ive reached  the same  conclusions the investigator reached,  
both in respect of the outcome of the complaint  and also the compensation that should be 
awarded, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Looking more specifically  at each issue in turn:
Ref: DRN29647563The transfer
I think Cofunds did act incorrectly when it transferred Ms Rs accounts held with all three  
intermediaries. The covering letter was unequivocal that the transfer was only intended to be 
in respect of the one named intermediary and the form quoted  an account number relating 
specifically to that same intermediary. 
Ms R did place a tick against the statement If you wish to move  all holdings for client(s) 
please tick here. But I dont think its reasonable to have concluded that the ticking  of that 
box meant that accounts relating to all three intermediaries should be moved,  particularly not 
in light of the very clear covering letter. I find it entirely plausible  that the box was ticked on 
the advice of a member  of staff that Ms R spoke with. It would seem sensible and correct  to 
tick that box if more than one account  was held with a particular intermediary. 
I can also appreciate that it mustve  been very frustrating for Ms R to be told this was an 
error, only for this to be later retracted. 
Loss of trading opportunities
I can understand why, in the face of Cofunds  failings in respect  of the transfer, Ms R might 
have been loathe to further interact with the business by trading though it, via phone or post.  
It couldve been the case that doing  so wouldve led to further confusion and an even more  
complicated situation. 
But I think if there had been specific trades that she felt had to be completed  to avoid losses 
or benefit from gains,  she wouldve made some attempt to get these completed.  At least  she 
wouldve flagged them to Cofunds,  or her intermediaries, as part of the lengthy  
correspondence, so there wouldve been  a record of her intentions  and what she was 
prevented from achieving as a direct result of the lack of access. 
In the absence of such  contemporaneous evidence of what Mrs R might have wanted to do, 
I dont think theres any way to reasonably quantify any loss in this respect.   
Account fees
Again, I have some sympathy for Ms Rs argument on this point. I can see that it wouldve 
been frustrating  to continue paying fees to Cofunds  during a period when it was not able to 
provide her with a full service. But, as the investigator noted, it wasnt the case that Cofunds  
was failing to provide  any service to Ms R. 
Cofunds was still managing the accounts  and holding  the assets. Any direction of 
compensation I make is not intended to punish  the business or to work as some sort of fine. I 
have to look at what the consequences  of a business failings were  and what,  if any, financial 
loss or material distress they caused  to the consumer. Regardless  of Cofunds failings Ms R 
wouldve had to pay some  level of fees for the custody  of her holdings.  This wasnt  a 
situation where she had to pay another business for the same service  at the same time. 
As such,  I think the most  appropriate way to compensate  for the difficulties experienced by 
Ms R is by way of a payment that reflects the trouble and upset caused, rather  than making 
a full or part refund of fees.  In this respect, as noted,  I feel that the £1,300  suggested by the 
investigator is fair and reasonable.  
Ref: DRN29647564I appreciate Cofunds  considers this to be excessive. But given the seriousness of its failings 
and their impact on Ms R, particularly in light of the protracted nature of the situation and 
poor communication during  it, I think it is appropriate  that there is a significant  increase to 
what has already been  offered.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Cofunds  
Limited to pay Ms R a total of £1,300, which I understand will involve the payment of a 
further £650.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2964756