K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Miss C says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Miss Cs credit card application  had a box for the Credit Card Repayments  Insurance - the 
PPI. The form said to mark the box if this was wanted. On Miss Cs form, this box is marked 
and she signed  the form. So I think Miss C agreed  to the PPI and its likely she was made 
aware she was taking it. And what we know of how Halifax sold PPI policies like this makes  
me think Halifax likely asked Miss C whether she wanted the PPI before marking  the box.
Miss C says the PPI wasnt mentioned or explained  and shed no idea shed  taken any 
insurance.  But the sale took place  well over fifteen years ago. So I wouldnt expect Miss C 
to recall it in detail. With this in mind, and taking into account that the application she signed  
was marked to say the insurance was wanted, what Miss C has said isnt enough to make 
me think that Halifax added the cover without asking  or telling her, or didnt give her a choice 
about it like I think Halifax normally wouldve. On balance, I think  its likely Halifax made it 
clear Miss C didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it out  but I can understand 
why she might not remember this.
Miss C says Halifax  didnt advise her to buy the PPI. But if Halifax did recommend the PPI to 
Miss C, Halifax had to do more and check the PPI was right for her. Halifax  thinks  it did 
recommend the PPI to Miss C. So I think its fair to assess  Miss Cs complaint on that basis 
 because it places  on Halifax  a higher level of responsibility for the sale. But from what Ive 
seen of Miss Cs circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was right for her. For example, 
Miss C wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And she seems  
to have had a need for the protection the PPI could give her if she lost her his income  due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as full or as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take the cover - so it looks  to me like she wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it wouldve been  useful for her if something went  wrong.  
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking the cover.
Ive thought about all Miss Cs points, including what shes  said about Halifax  not making  it 
clear she had a choice about  the policy, never making complaints without good reason and 
not knowing anything  about the PPI. But Ive explained my reasons for thinking  Miss C was 
made aware  she was taking the policy. And why on balance I think it likely Miss C was given 
a choice. Miss C says she was in full-time, stable employment when she took the cover. But 
this doesnt persuade me that at the time it wasnt possible in future for her to suffer  a loss of 
income due to unemployment or disability. And I dont think  the fact Miss C didnt claim on 
Ref: DRN24092432the PPI means  the policy was most likely  mis-sold. So, for all these reasons and the others 
Ive already given  above, these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2409243