K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that a car he acquired  with the assistance of finance  from FirstRand Bank 
Limited trading  as MotoNovo  Finance  is not of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr B entered in to an agreement with MotoNovo to finance the purchase of a used car on 25 
August 2018 for £10,990. Mr B raised concerns with the supplying dealership that the car 
was displaying  an engine  management fault.  This was repaired by a third party  garage.  Mr B 
then replaced the battery as it had failed.  The engine  management  light fault recurred  in 
December 2018  and Mr B returned the car to the dealership to repair.  The dealership said 
that because of the time of year they would be unable to look at the car until the new year.  
Mr B raised a complaint with the finance  company in January 2019 as he had not had an 
update on the repair and he now wanted  to reject the car as it was not of satisfactory quality.
MotoNovo responded on the 17 January 2019 that the dealership  had now repaired the fault 
and the car was ready for collection.  MotoNovo said that it would arrange an independent 
inspection of the car for Mr B to be satisfied that the fault was repaired before collection. 
MotoNovo said it did not agree that the car could be rejected. Mr B did not agree to have  the 
car inspected and maintained that he wanted  to reject the car although he did collect  the car 
on the 26 January  2019. Following collection of the car Mr B said that the fault was still 
present. Mr B complained to this service that he wanted to be able to reject  the car and be 
compensated for the time he has been  without  the vehicle.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Bs complaint  and thought it should be upheld in part. She 
thought that MotoNovo should  compensate  Mr B for the time he had been without the car on 
the two occasions it had been with the garage. She thought  that a refund  of one months 
repayment would be fair and reasonable.
Mr B explained that there were now issues with the clutch on the car and he really didnt 
want to keep the car. He said the garage  was refusing to look at the car until the dispute  was 
settled and he wasnt even sure he should be driving the car.
MotoNovo didnt agree with the adjudicators  view and said that Mr B had use of another car 
and he had accepted the repairs. MotoNovo  asked  for the matter to be passed  to an 
ombudsman to decide. This is the final stage in our process.
      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
At the outset, I would like to apologise to Mr B for the time taken for his complaint to reach 
me. 
Mr B wants  to now reject the car pursuant to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). 
MotoNovo says that the car should  not be rejected because it has been repaired and Mr B 
has accepted  those repairs.
I dont apply the law directly in the same way that a court  would approach matters but I do 
take it into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable. The CRA provides 30 days to 
Ref: DRN27973012reject the car if it is not of satisfactory quality. After 30 days the business is allowed an 
opportunity to repair the car.
 
I note that the fault first presented a short time after Mr B had owned the car. I dont have 
exact dates but I can see that the car was taken to a third party garage and it appears that 
the fault codes  in the computer system were cleared by rebooting the ECU. Mr B then had a 
flat battery  and this needed to be replaced. It appears that on replacement in December 
2018 the fault code  returned. The supplying dealership  has said that they were unable  to 
replicate the fault but after taking  advice from a specialist, replacement of a part was 
recommended. This wasnt  done  but Mr B was given a cheque for £80 to cover the repair  
should the fault recur. The dealership  has provided a copy  of the invoice from the specialist 
which confirms that there  was no fault and no repair.
Mr B said the fault came  back the following day but I havent seen any evidence  of this or 
whether Mr B used  the £80 to replace the part. 
I have no reason to doubt what is contained  within the invoice from the third party  repairer 
and Mr B has produced  no evidence  that would suggest that this is incorrect.  Mr B was given 
an opportunity to have  the car independently inspected before he collected it but he 
declined.
    
In these circumstances I cant be sure that the fault is a recurring one or that the earlier 
repair of the car has not resolved the issue. I dont doubt what  Mr B says about the engine  
management light coming on but I cant  be sure that this is because of the same  fault or 
because of an unrelated issue with the flat battery. In these circumstances, given that Mr B 
accepted the repairs  and the cheque for £80 I dont think it is reasonable for Mr B to reject 
the car. I cant say that it is likely, on the basis of the evidence I have, that there  is a fault 
that was there, or developing, at the point of sale that hasnt been repaired.  
Mr B has been without the car on two occasions  for a considerable period and I do think that 
the dealership  did delay  in organising  the repairs and diagnostics. Mr B had to chase the 
dealership to organise the repairs and diagnostics. During  that time Mr B has had to pay for 
a car that he hasnt  been able to use. Although I appreciate Mr B had use of another car, 
that doesnt take away the inconvenience  of paying for a car that he was unable  to use. I 
agree with the adjudicator  that a refund of one months repayment under the agreement 
would be fair and reasonable to compensate Mr B for this.
Mr B says that he has discovered other  faults  with the car but I dont  have any information 
about these or whether they have been  reported  to the supplying dealership. Mr B would 
need to contact the garage and/or MotoNovo about these faults  if they still persist.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right FirstRand Bank  
Limited should do the following:
Refund one monthly  payment to reflect the period that Mr B has been without his car;
Ref: DRN27973013Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2797301