K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to terminate his 
claim under his employers group income protection insurance policy.
background
Mr W was employed  in a desk-based role and was a member  of his employers group 
income protection insurance policy. The policy would pay benefit  if Mr W was unable  to work 
because of illness or injury.
In 2013, Mr W stopped working because of depression and anxiety. Aviva  accepted  his 
claim under the policy and began paying benefit.
In 2017, Mr W was still off work.  Aviva  undertook a review of the claim. It arranged for Mr W 
to undergo an independent medical examination (IME) in October 2017 by Dr M, a 
consultant in occupational  medicine.  Dr M confirmed that Mr W was suffering from Type II 
diabetes with diabetic retinopathy; depression; anxiety; joint pain, including knees and hips; 
and right shoulder problems which had been diagnosed as tendonitis.  Dr M concluded that 
Mr W was unfit to return to work  as a result of his visual problems, mental health problems 
and joint problems.
Aviva then presented  Dr M with surveillance footage of Mr W which had been obtained a 
month or two before,  and just after, the IME. After  seeing the footage, Dr M said that Mr W 
appeared to be far more active and capable  than he had been  led to believe at the IME. 
However, he noted that the footage confirmed Mr W had a deficiency in near vision. He said 
that opinion should be sought from a consultant ophthalmologist and that the services of 
Access to Work should be used to see whether Mr Ws VDU equipment  could be modified to 
enable him to work on a PC. If this were the case,  Dr M thought that Mr W could  attempt a 
gradual return to work, building  up to full-time  working over a two- or three-month period.
Aviva told Mr Ws employer in February 2018  that in light of Dr Ms further comments,  it 
would be terminating  the claim. It said that the employer should  arrange for a workplace  
assessment to establish what reasonable adjustments  needed  to be carried out to enable 
Mr Ws return. It said that if Mr W made no attempt to return to work, it would terminate the 
claim from the end of March 2018.
Mr W didnt attempt to return to work. He appealed against the decision and provided further 
information. However, Aviva didnt  change its position. It issued its final response in May 
2018.
In September  2018, having  still not returned  to work,  Mr W referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She noted  that 
Dr Ms view that Mr W could attempt a return to work was conditional on first establishing 
that his eyesight problems  could  be overcome through reasonable adjustments.  She said 
Aviva had terminated the claim before  doing  this. She thought  it should have followed Dr Ms 
recommendations that opinions and advice should be sought from a consultant 
ophthalmologist and Access to Work.  She considered it should now do this. If the opinions  
and advice indicated  that Mr W couldnt  return to work because of his eyesight problems, 
she thought Aviva should reinstate the claim and pay backdated benefit, plus interest.
Ref: DRN26543912Both parties  agreed to this, with Aviva stipulating that Mr W should  get things started by 
contacting Access  to Work because such a request needed  to come from either him or his 
employer. However, when Mr W approached  Access  to Work he found that it was unwilling  
to provide assistance to him and his employer due to the amount of time hed been absent 
from work.
Aviva said that Mr W and his employer should  therefore seek advice from another 
organisation such as the Royal National Institute for the Blind, to establish what adjustments,  
or specialist  equipment, might be necessary to facilitate Mr Ws return to work.
Mr W was unhappy at this. He considered the medical evidence supported that he was 
unable to work. He thought Aviva should  simply approach his treating consultant  for details 
of his eye problems  as he believed that this would demonstrate his incapacity.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought the complaint should be upheld in 
part. My findings  were as follows:
Aviva based its decision to terminate Mr Ws claim on Dr Ms amended view once hed seen 
the surveillance evidence. Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Aviva  to rely on Dr Ms 
opinion that, in light of the surveillance  evidence, Mr W wasnt  incapacitated by his mental 
health and joint problems. However,  as the investigator pointed out, Dr M did not say that 
Mr W was definitely able to return to work. While  he said that the surveillance evidence  
showed Mr W was considerably more able than he had believed when he carried  out the 
IME, he also said that it confirmed Mr W appeared to have problems with his near vision. He 
went on to say:
With regard to his insured occupation   for most of the time this involves using 
computing equipment  and there  is evidence from the surveillance that in respect of 
near vision he could  well have a problem in the use of this equipment. I therefore 
believe, as recommended  in my report, that opinion should be sought from a 
Consultant Ophthalmologist. I would strongly suggest the services of Access  to Work  
are employed to see if modifications  of the VDU equipment can be carried  out to 
enable him to return to work on a PC. If this were possible, he could  attempt a return  
to work .
Aviva chose to ignore  the recommendation that an opinion be sought from a consultant 
ophthalmologist and went straight to the termination  of the claim.
I think Aviva  was wrong to do this. And while it might  argue that it was up to Mr W and his 
employer to seek the services of Access  to Work, that is the second  part of Dr Ms 
recommendation; it wasnt an either/or.
Dr M made  clear that his opinion that Mr W could attempt a return to work was conditional on 
the outcome of the ophthalmic consultants opinion and the Access  to Work  assessment. 
Accordingly, I consider  that Aviva should  now undertake the action  which it should have 
taken at the time and obtain  an ophthalmic consultants view on Mr Ws abilities. This might  
be from his treating consultant or from another  consultant who is given access to Mr Ws 
medical records and, if the consultant deems it necessary, is able to examine Mr W. Given  
the passage of time and the possibility  that Mr Ws vision may have changed, it may be 
difficult for the consultant to comment on his ability from two years earlier. I therefore think 
the consultant should  be asked to comment on Mr Ws current ability. If this is to Avivas  
Ref: DRN26543913disadvantage, it only has itself to blame for not taking the correct action at the appropriate 
time.
Once the ophthalmic consultant has provided their opinion, and assuming the consultant  
doesnt think it impossible  that Mr W might be able to return to his job, it will then be up to 
Mr W and his employer to make  the consultants  report available to a suitable organisation to 
see whether modifications  can be made to the computer  equipment  to allow Mr Ws return  to 
work.
If, at the end of this, it appears that even with reasonable adjustments Mr W is unable to 
return to work due to his visual  problems, I would expect Aviva to reinstate his claim and pay 
backdated benefit, plus interest.
If Aviva carries out its further assessment and Mr W, having arranged  with his employer  to 
undergo any necessary  workplace assessment, is still unhappy at the eventual outcome, he 
may make a new complaint to Aviva  about  its decision and, if still unhappy, may again  refer 
that complaint  to us.   
Finally, while  I cant  say at this stage whether Aviva terminated Mr Ws claim when he was 
still incapacitated, I consider  from Mr Ws evidence that its failure  to manage the claim 
correctly has caused him unnecessary stress and anxiety for which I think  it should pay him 
compensation of £400.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Aviva didnt accept my provisional decision.  It commented as follows:
It was incorrect for me to say it hadnt contacted  a consultant ophthalmologist; it had sent 
the surveillance footage and Dr Ms report to Mr Ws treating consultant ophthalmologist 
but he had refused  to comment.
It had asked Mr W and his employer  to arrange a workplace assessment by Access  to 
Work but Mr W had refused to attend  this and had instead  complained  to us.
By refusing to attend a workplace assessment, both then and since,  Mr W was not 
complying with the policy requirement  that he take all reasonable steps to assist his 
recovery.
It should have  the right to investigate Mr Ws work for a radio station, particularly  in 
relation to a policy  clause which  prohibited the member from following  another 
occupation while working.
The workplace assessment should take place first because  the consultant 
ophthalmologist wouldnt be trained  in occupational health and so wouldnt be aware of 
what reasonable adjustment and equipment was available  to assist Mr Ws return  to 
work.
If a consultant ophthalmologist were to be asked  for an opinion at this stage, they should 
be provided with the full medical evidence and surveillance evidence, as well as full 
details of Mr Ws work station  at both his employer and the radio  station so they can 
comment on his working ability with knowledge of what  equipment  might  be available  to 
assist with Mr Ws return to work.
Ref: DRN26543914It had offered to support Mr W in his return to work at every stage but he had declined  
this support throughout and had misled Dr M as to his abilities. In view of this, it thought 
it shouldnt have  to pay Mr W any compensation.
Mr W didnt comment  on my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  I shall explain  why.
It is disingenuous of Aviva to say it contacted  a consultant ophthalmologist. It made the 
decision to terminate the claim without seeking any such opinion.  When  Mr W complained, it 
agreed to his request to send the surveillance  footage and Dr Ms report  to his treating 
consultant but it did this at the same  time it issued its final response letter. It made no 
attempt to obtain an opinion in advance. As I explained in my provisional decision, this was 
in disregard of the advice of Dr M on whose report Aviva had relied.  I consider this was 
wrong.
Aviva says that Mr W refused  to attend  a workplace assessment by Access  to Work but 
instead complained to us. To clarify, after Aviva issued its final response letter in May 2018, 
Mr W was seen by his employers occupational  health consultant  in July 2018 who advised 
that, while Access to Work might indeed  eventually play an important role in helping Mr W 
back to work, this wasnt feasible at the present time due to his poor state of mental health. It 
was after this that Mr W complained to us. But in any case, I have already explained that it 
was wrong for Aviva to push Mr W into a workplace assessment without having sought an 
opinion from a consultant ophthalmologist.
Aviva has raised the issue of Mr Ws work for a radio station and has highlighted a particular 
clause in the policy. The clause states:
We will pay total benefit if immediately before the start of incapacity  the member  was 
following their normal occupation  and, after the start of incapacity  they are not following  any 
other occupation, and the deferred  period has finished.
I presume that Aviva  has highlighted this clause  because it believes that Mr W was following  
another occupation was therefore not eligible to receive benefit. However, the policy goes on 
to define other  occupation  as:
Any occupation  performed  for profit or reward, other than the members normal occupation.
I have explained  to Aviva that Mr W has provided evidence from the radio station that he 
worked there, when  able,  as a volunteer. This means the clause which  it has highlighted isnt 
relevant in this case.
Aviva has also suggested  that Mr Ws ability to work at the radio station may provide some 
indication of his ability to perform his normal occupation. I cant  see that this is anything  to do 
with the clause Aviva has highlighted; Aviva is simply saying that Mr Ws voluntary work 
might have provided evidence to support  its decision to terminate his claim. However, I have 
seen no evidence to show that Mr W was required to advise Aviva  of his unpaid  activities or 
Ref: DRN26543915that he gave incorrect  information about such activities in response to any questions it asked 
him. In view of this, I dont  consider that Aviva can use Mr Ws voluntary work as an excuse 
to reinvestigate his incapacity at the time it terminated the claim. However, I consider it is 
reasonable that the consultant ophthalmologist is informed of Mr Ws voluntary work, so he 
may ask Mr W about this if he wishes. I say more  about what  other information the 
consultant ophthalmologist should be given below.
Aviva considers that the workplace assessment  should take place before the consultant  
ophthalmologist gives an opinion. However,  this isnt specified by Dr M, nor did Aviva 
attempt to clarify the process with him. Indeed, Aviva showed  no intent to obtain  an opinion  
from a consultant ophthalmologist at any stage before it terminated Mr Ws claim.  I consider 
the appropriate process, implied by Dr Ms report,  is for an opinion  to be sought from a 
consultant ophthalmologist followed by, depending on the consultants report, a workplace 
assessment by a suitable body such as the Royal National Institute for the Blind.   
In terms of what the consultant ophthalmologist  should be provided with, I agree that they 
should have access  to Mr Ws medical records, as well as details of his job, Dr Ms report  
and the surveillance footage. They may also be informed of Mr Ms voluntary work at the 
radio station  though it will be up to the consultant  to ask Mr M for any further  details of this if 
they consider  it relevant.
Im satisfied that Aviva has been  at fault in this matter, as I have outlined above,  and 
therefore remain of the opinion that it should  pay Mr W £400 compensation for the stress 
and anxiety he has been caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to obtain  a consultant ophthalmologists opinion 
on Mr Ws visual ability and how this might affect  his ability to perform his occupation.  Aviva  
should, if appropriate, then make this report available to Mr W and his employer so that they 
can arrange for a workplace assessment  by a suitable organisation to determine whether 
reasonable adjustments can be made to facilitate Mr Ws return to work.
I further require  Aviva  to pay Mr W £400  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2654391