K820x#14complaint
Mr O says Provident Personal Credit Limited  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about two loans Provident provided to Mr O between  February  2018  and 
April 2018. Mr Os borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate Taken 
OutDate  
RepaidLoan Amount Loan + InterestHighest 
Instalment
1 03/02/2018 07/12/2018 £300.00 £599.40 £66.00
2 25/04/2018 07/11/2018 £500.00 £806.00 £267.00
Our adjudicator felt Mr Os complaint shouldnt be upheld, and that Provident didnt do 
anything wrong  when lending Mr O the two loans above. Mr O disagreed on the basis  that 
he was given loan 2 before loan 1 had been  paid off. And so, the complaint was passed to 
me to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Provident should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN23768282I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Provident was required to establish 
whether Mr O could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
why I think Providents checks were  proportionate loans 1 and 2
For loan 1 Mr O borrowed  £300 for which he needed to repay  around £66 per month  for 11 
months.
Ive seen a record  of the information Mr O provided  when he completed this loan application. 
Mr O said he had a monthly  income  of £1,250  and had regular monthly outgoings  of £460. 
This left him with a disposable  monthly income  of £790, so it seems he had sufficient funds 
to make the monthly  repayments under the terms of the agreement, and I havent seen any 
other information which makes me think this loan was unaffordable  for him.
For loan 2 Mr O borrowed  £500 for which he needed to repay  around £201  per month for 
four months. At the time of this application Mr O declared that he still had a monthly income 
of £1,250, and his monthly outgoings  hadnt changed from £460. 
Mr O says that his complaint should  be upheld because Provident agreed to lend him loan 2 
while his first loan was still outstanding. But Ive looked at the combined  monthly  repayments  
that Mr O wouldve been required  to repay  for the time these two loans were running  at the 
same time. This amounts  to a total of around £276. But Mr O still had a monthly disposable 
income of £790,  so it looks like he wouldve been able to make  the combined monthly  
repayments. So, from this evidence it looks like both loans were affordable for Mr O.  
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely Provident was made  aware of any 
financial problems Mr O mightve  been  having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mr Os circumstances further.  So, I think it was reasonable for Provident to rely 
on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments  Provident did for these loans  
were proportionate. And I think  its decision to lend Mr O loans  1 and 2 on the information  it 
had was reasonable. So, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint about these loans. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think this complaint should  be upheld.  
Ref: DRN23768283Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2376828