K821x#15complaint
Mr J says PDL Finance Limited, (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 4 short-term loans  Mr Lender provided to Mr J between  May 2017 
and January 2018. Mr Js borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidContractual
InstalmentsAmount Maximum Monthly
Repayment
1 24/05/2017 13/07/2017 6 £300.00 £134.00
2 21/07/2017 14/09/2017 6 £750.00 £335.00
3 02/10/2017 06/12/2017 6 £1,000.00 £380.00
4 02/01/2018 - 12 £1,000.00 £219.29
Loans 1 to 3 were settled early. But loan 4 is still partially outstanding.  Mr J told Mr Lender  
during the course of this loan that he was experiencing financial difficulty  and entering into a 
debt management  plan.
In response to Mr Js complaint, Mr Lender  said that it completed assessments in relation  to 
his loans in accordance with the regulatory  requirements and guidance set at the relevant 
time. However it said further assessment questions could  have  been  asked in relation to 
Mr Js fourth  loan.  And it agreed to reduce the outstanding  balance  on this loan to the capital 
amount borrowed.  It also agreed to put all the amounts paid to date on this loan in reducing  
this balance. And for this new balance to be paid via Mr Js debt management  plan. 
Mr Lender further agreed it would  remove any adverse entries relating to this loan on Mr Js 
credit file once the balance  of the credit  had been  paid off. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Js complaint. He went further  than Mr Lenders offer and 
thought that neither loan three nor four should have been given. Mr Lender disagreed and 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ref: DRN21687012But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, he felt that a proportionate check for loans three  and four 
would most  likely have  shown that Mr J was having problems managing his money. And that 
Mr Lender would have  become  aware  that Mr J was spending large amounts of money on 
betting transactions. And that, in these circumstances,  he thought  Mr Lender ought  to have 
realised it was unlikely  Mr J would  have been able to sustainably repay these loans.
At the time of Mr Js application for the third loan the amount he wanted  to borrow  had 
increased more than three-fold in the space of five months. And he was asking for a loan of 
£1,000, even though  the amount of disposable income he declared  to Mr Lender was in 
excess of that amount.  I agree  with our adjudicator that, in the circumstances of this 
complaint, at that stage it would have been proportionate for Mr Lender to have carried out a 
full review of Mr Js financial circumstances.  Had it done so, as our adjudicator said, it would  
have seen that Mr J was spending  large amounts of money on betting transactions. 
Including in the months before he requested the third loan. In these circumstances,  I 
conclude that Mr Lender ought  to have realised it was unlikely Mr J would have been able to 
sustainably repay  this loan  and any subsequent  loans.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do?
Ref: DRN21687013A.add together  the total repayments made  by Mr J towards  interest fees and charges 
on loan 3;
B.calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mr J which were 
considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mr J originally made the 
payments, to the date this complaint is settled;
C.remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on loan 4 and treat any 
payments made by Mr J on this loan as though they had been repayments  of the 
principal; 
D.subject to what follows  the amounts calculated in A and B should be refunded to 
Mr J;
E.however if there is still an outstanding balance on loan 4 after carrying  out C then the 
amounts calculated in A and B should  be used in or towards repaying it; if this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be repaid to Mr J;
F.if C results  in Mr J having made  overpayments  then you should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled; and
G.try to agree an affordable repayment  plan for the remaining balance  on loan 4 with 
Mr J, whether by way of the existing debt management plan or otherwise
H.remove any negative information  about loans 3 and 4 from Mr Js credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest.  You should give Mr J 
a certificate showing how much tax youve  deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Js complaint. PDL Finance  Limited  
should make  the payments and adjustments set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2168701