K820x#14complaint
Mr P is complaining that Gefion Insurance A/S has declined a claim he made  on his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
Mr P is represented by a representative in this complaint. But for ease of reference I shall 
refer to any statements  or submissions they made  as if they were made by Mr P.
background
Mr P took out a commercial vehicle insurance policy to insure a vehicle he was the 
registered keeper  of. The vehicle was subsequently  stolen  so Mr P claimed  for the loss on 
his commercial vehicle  insurance policy.
Gefion investigated  the claim and ultimately declined it because  they didnt  think  Mr P had 
an insurable interest in the vehicle. It said this because the vehicle had been  bought  on 
finance by a friend of Mr Ps  Mr H. And it said that Mr P had said that Mr H was paying for 
the vehicle and Mr P wasnt making  any payments towards it. It said that, as all financial ties 
to the vehicle are in Mr Hs name, he is the only party  with an insurable interest in the 
vehicle. 
Mr P doesnt  think Gefion was fair. He says his friend gifted the vehicle to him. And he 
provided Gefion with a letter from Mr H which said that he gifted the vehicle to Mr P. Mr P 
maintained that the vehicle was his and that Mr H had no legal interest in it.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the legal owner of the vehicle was the 
finance company  and the finance agreement was in Mr Hs name. So he didnt think  Mr P 
had an interest in the vehicle. Given this, he didnt think Gefion had acted unreasonably in 
declining the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
It is standard  principle  of insurance you can only buy insurance for something  in which  you 
have an insurable  interest. An individual will generally be considered  to have an insurable 
interest in something  if they would suffer a loss should that property be lost or damaged.
Gefion has accepted that a genuine theft has taken place and the insurance policy  provides 
cover in these circumstances.  But, in effect, it says that its able to decline the claim on the 
grounds that Mr P doesnt have an insurable  interest  in the vehicle. So the issue I have to 
decide is whether  Mr P has suffered a loss as a result  of the vehicles theft.
I note and understand Gefions stance in this matter as the finance agreement is in Mr Hs 
name and Mr P has confirmed that hes not paid anything towards the finance. I recognise 
that its not a pre-requisite to actually pay for property to get an insurable interest  in it as you 
can still suffer a loss from something thats gifted  to you. 
Ref: DRN24529762But I also have to take into account that Mr H had acquired the vehicle on a hire purchase 
agreement. So Mr H didnt own the vehicle as it was owned by the finance provider. Given  
this, Mr H wasnt able to gift the vehicle to Mr P at the time as it wasnt  his to give away. And 
Mr H would have been in breach of the terms of the finance agreement in doing  so.
So, while I note that Mr H has said that he gave the vehicle to Mr P and that Mr H didnt have 
an interest in the vehicle.  I have to think whether Mr P had a legal or contractual  interest  in 
the vehicle. And I dont  think  he did. The vehicle  was owned by the finance company. And 
the hire purchase  contract was in Mr Hs name. 
Mr P may have taken  ownership of the vehicle once the finance agreement was paid off. But 
this doesnt mean that he had a legal  or contractual interest in it when it was stolen. So, 
while I naturally sympathise with the situation Mr P has found  himself in, I cant say that 
Gefion were acting unfairly in saying that Mr P didnt have  a legal interest  in the vehicle.
So it follows  that, as Mr P didnt have a financial interest in the vehicle, I cant say that 
Gefion acted unfairly in declining  his claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2452976