K820x#14complaint
K, a limited  company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc delayed opening its 
business account, resulting in loss of trade.  This complaint has been brought  on behalf  of K 
by, initially, Mr A, its director, and now by Mr R, its liquidator.
background
Mr A is the director of a limited company which I will refer to as K. Mr A originally  brought  this 
complaint to our Service, but since then K has gone  into liquidation. So the liquidator, Mr R, 
now represents K. Mr R has consented to our Service continuing to consider this complaint. 
All of the representations made in support of this complaint  have been  made  by Mr A.
K already had a business account with NatWest. In July 2018 Mr A applied to NatWest  for a 
second business account for K. He wanted this because  he had acquired new premises from 
which he was going to run a second restaurant  for his takeaway business. Each restaurant 
had its own account  with a third party  which marketed them  and processed their online 
orders in return for a commission on all online orders (which it deducts from all online  
payments before passing on the balance). So Mr A needed to register  the transfer  of 
ownership of the newly-acquired restaurant with the third party.  He says that the third party  
required each branch to have its own business bank account. So he couldnt  just use Ks 
original bank account for the new restaurant  while he waited for NatWest to open the new 
account. He needed the new bank account before he could start trading  from the new 
premises.
NatWest told Mr A that it would take three to five working days to open the account. Mr A 
sent NatWest the application form on 5 July, and NatWest received it on Friday 6 July. Five 
working days later was Friday 13 July. But the account was not opened until 23 July, ten 
days (or six working days) late, despite  Mr A chasing NatWest in the meantime. This 
prevented K from taking  online  orders (although  it could still take telephone  orders). Mr A 
says that as a result  K incurred consequential  losses of about  £18,000.
NatWest accepted that the delay had been  its error, and it paid Mr A £250  for his trouble and 
£27 for the cost of the phone calls hed made  about  the issue.  It later offered him another 
£250, which he did not accept. But it did not agree  that it was responsible for any 
consequential losses. So Mr A brought this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said that NatWest  should refund K for the lost 
online orders  (but not telephone orders) that would otherwise have been taken between  12 
and 23 July 2018.
Neither party accepted that decision, and so this complaint was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. I wrote a provisional  decision which  read as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I can see why Mr A believed that he needed  a second bank account for his second 
premises. He has sent us an email he received from the third party, dated 4 July 2018 (the 
Ref: DRN28391372day before  he sent NatWest his application  for a new account).  That email read as follows  
(emphasis in original):
Thank you for letting us know that youd  like to change your bank details on your 
[third partys  name]  account.
For us to enable the change please fill out the enclosed  form and supply the 
following information -
1 x form of ID to prove your identity  this can include  either  a copy of your Passport  
or Driving  Licence. (Please note that the ID must be for you  the new owner) 
1 x proof of bank account   this can include a copy  of your Bank Statement, Paying 
In Slip or Cheque  (Please  note that this must  show  the sort code and account 
number of the bank account you require us to make your payments to and 
must state your trading name).
Please supply  these to us as soon as possible, as your terminal will not process  any 
orders if any of the documents above are missing.
For reasons I can readily understand,  Mr A thought that if the trading name of the new 
premises did not match the trading name  on the bank statement, then the third party would  
reject his application. Since he intended  the newly  acquired restaurant to continue to trade 
under its old name, he promptly  applied to NatWest for a new account, and diligently chased 
NatWest to open a new account until it was belatedly opened. He did all he could do to open 
a new bank account, and its safe to assume  that he told the third party  about the new bank  
account on the same day as it was opened, 23 July. He began  trading from the new 
premises that same day.
However, it takes a few days  for the third party to update  a restaurants account with its new 
owners bank details. So the third partys invoice for the week  23 to 29 July contains this 
paragraph:
Youre due £483.31 but in order to pay you, we need your current  bank details. 
Please call our Customer Care team  to request a bank form.
This suggested to me that you dont need to have  opened a bank account to start trading 
through the third partys  online platform  or to continue trading, if the restaurant already has 
an account with the third party, as was the case  here. So I phoned the third party  and asked 
them about  this. The answer I was given  was that trading can continue  without interruption, 
and the money  due to the new owner  will be held by the third party until the new owners  
bank account  has been registered with it.
That is not necessarily  fatal to this complaint, because although the third party would have 
been willing  to allow Ks newly acquired  restaurant to continue  trading, that still might  not 
have been possible  in practice.  K still needed to pay its staff, and other overheads, and it 
might not have had the resources to do that while its revenue was being held by the third 
party.
However, in that phone call and in a follow-up call, the third party also told me that it is not in 
fact necessary for its clients to open a second  bank account for a second restaurant.  It is 
actually possible to use one bank account for both restaurants  even  if they have different 
trading names.  
Ref: DRN28391373Therefore it was not necessary for Mr A to delay trading until 23 July. It was open  to him to 
ask the third party to use Ks existing bank account for both restaurants. I recognise  that this 
may not have been obvious  to him at the time. But although  the delay in opening  the second 
bank account  was entirely NatWests fault,  I dont  think  I can fairly hold NatWest  responsible  
for the consequential  loss arising  from the loss of trade,  when that loss was in fact avoidable  
because NatWests error did not actually prevent K from trading. If the third party failed to 
make that clear at the time, then that is not the banks  fault.
So I think that the £577 which NatWest  has offered for its error  (which consists of £277 
already paid, and an offer of £250  which Mr A rejected) is fair compensation for its delay in 
opening the second business account.  I have  asked NatWest if its offer of £250  is still open, 
should Mr R (the liquidator) now wish to accept it on behalf of K, and I will pass  on the 
banks answer when I receive it.
Subject to NatWest still being willing to pay K another £250, I am currently  not minded to 
uphold this complaint.
I now invite Mr A and National Westminster  Bank  Plc to let me have any further comments  
by 20 September  2019, after which I will issue my final decision.
responses to my provisional  findings
NatWest confirmed that its offer of £250 was still open. It had nothing to add to my 
provisional decision.
Mr A did not agree  that it had been open  to him to use Ks existing account. He asked for 
more time to obtain evidence of this from the third party. The investigator  asked him to 
provide his evidence by 14 October,  and to tell us if the third party  indicated  that it could not 
assist him by that deadline. But he did not respond.  So there  is no reason for me to depart 
from my provisional findings,  and I confirm them here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. I leave  it to the liquidator, Mr R, to decide 
whether to accept  National  Westminster  Bank  Plcs offer of £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the liquidator, 
Mr R, to accept  or reject  my decision before  15 November 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2839137