K820x#14Complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros  y Reaseguros,  
S.A. (Mapfre) has declined his claim for holiday cancellation. 
Background
Mr P and his friend (Mr Z) booked  a holiday in July 2018 and their departure date was 
7 November 2018. 
On 1 November  2018, Mr P had immunisations for his forthcoming holiday.
Two days before they were due to travel (5 November  2018), Mr P bought an online travel 
insurance policy to start on 7 November 2018  and to be covered for eight days.
The night before they were due to travel  (6 November 2018) Mr Z fell ill. Mr P decided not to 
go on the holiday as he didnt want to travel on his own and because he also booked the 
holiday with the intention of going with his friend. He said the information  on the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office  (FCO) website advised  travelling alone  was not recommended  for the 
region they were going to. 
On 15 November 2018, Mr P submitted a claim  for cancellation of the holiday and requested 
the full cost, including that for Mr Z. Mapfre confirmed  Mr P couldnt  make a claim because  
of the FCO  advice, but it could be considered due to Mr Z falling ill. And, in order  to do that, 
Mr P would need to provide a medical  certificate from Mr Zs doctor.  On 6 December 2018, 
Mr P advised Mapfre that he was unable to provide a medical certificate for Mr Z. So Mapfre  
said it couldnt consider the claim further.
Mr P made a complaint to Mapfre who again  said a claim  couldnt  be considered further if 
supporting medical  evidence couldnt be provided. The complaint was referred  to this service  
and one of our Investigators looked into it. She said it was reasonable for Mapfre to request 
a medical certificate  in a situation where  a claim was being made for holiday cancellation for 
someone who was travelling with him and had fallen  ill. 
Following further communication, Mr P submitted a medical certificate dated 
31 January 2019  to Mapfre. This was considered by it, along  with a letter provided by Mr P 
from Mr Zs doctor. But Mapfre wasnt satisfied with the information provided as the 
information wasnt clear  enough and it showed some inconsistencies. It therefore requested 
full medical records directly from Mr Zs doctor. Without this, Mapfre said it couldnt consider  
the claim further.
Consent was provided by Mr Z to obtain  medical records from his own doctor and were 
received by Mapfre on 26 April 2019.  This showed a doctors appointment was booked  by 
Mr Z on 12 November  2018 and it had been  requested on that same  day. The doctor 
couldnt however  confirm  whether attempts  were made to book an appointment prior to 
12 November. Additionally, notes made from the appointment on 12 November 2018 
confirmed that Mr Z had a viral illness for the last two weeks and hed suffered from 
headaches and sinus symptoms.
Based on the doctors notes, Mapfre decided not to pay the claim. It said there was an issue 
with the timing of when  this policy was purchased. It specifically thought Mr P wouldve been 
Ref: DRN26690142aware Mr Z was unwell at the time of purchasing the policy. Although it declined to pay the 
claim, Mapfre offered  to refund  the premium paid on the policy as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our Investigator  issued a view and didnt uphold  Mr Ps complaint. She said she wasnt  
persuaded that Mr P wasnt aware  of Mr Zs illness when he took out the policy. 
Mr P disagreed with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision.  
The case  has therefore been passed  to me. 
In summary,  Mr P has said the following:
He didnt know of his friends illness  at all until 6 November 2018 - the day prior to 
departure;
Hes provided a medical certificate and a letter from the doctor  which confirms that 
Mr Z was ill from 7 November 2018.  He cant understand why Mapfre  hasnt taken 
this evidence into account when considering the claim; and
Hes also shown he had immunisation five days prior to his holiday which  cost him 
£50. If he had known  Mr Z was ill and couldnt potentially  travel,  it doesnt make  
sense that he still went ahead  with having  them.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issues I need to decide  are whether or not:
Mapfre has applied the terms and conditions of the policy  correctly in declining  the 
claim; and
Mr P was treated  fairly and reasonably by Mapfre.
Theres never been a dispute that Mr Z was ill. The point of contention on this complaint is 
that Mapfre believes Mr P was aware of Mr Zs illness when  he took out the policy. Mr P, on 
the other hand,  states he was completely unaware  of Mr Zs illness until the day before they 
were due to fly out and as soon as he knew, he cancelled the holiday.
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge there has been a considerable  amount of communication  
between the two parties and it did take a while  to get to the crux of the complaint. I 
appreciate also that Mr P has provided  a lot of written communication  in relation to this 
complaint. While I wont be responding to each and every point, Id like to reassure him that I 
have considered the points hes raised.  
Mr P initially  raised the point to Mapfre that he cancelled the holiday based on information he 
got from the FCO. He said the FCO  website advised he shouldnt  travel alone to the country 
they were due to go to. So Ive considered this point and refer to page 18 of the policy 
booklet, headed, Sections of insurance:
A - Cancelling and cutting  short your holiday
What you are covered  for
The following are reasons  we will accept for you cancelling or cutting short  your trip:
Ref: DRN26690143
9. You cannot  commence  travel to your intended  destination due to the (FCO) Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office advice  for your destination/location changing  to as a minimum all but 
essential travel after the purchase of your policy or after the booking  of any individual trip, 
whichever is the latter. This also applies to where such FCO advice changes  are announced 
after you have commenced  your trip/holiday.
Ive looked at the advice  given by the FCO for the country they were travelling to. Having 
done so, I can see there  is specific advice concerning safety, what  to look out for and 
regions where  travelling  alone wasnt recommended. But this didnt apply to the region Mr P 
and Mr Z were  travelling to. Although Mr P said this was the reason he cancelled the holiday, 
I dont think this reason  was enough for Mapfre to say that it would pay the claim as the 
condition wasnt satisfied.
Subsequently, that claim has been considered on the basis that Mr Z fell ill and was unable 
to travel.
So Ive then considered the areas  in the policy terms relating  to cancellation of the holiday 
because of a medical  condition.  Under the General exclusions section of the policy, it 
says:
We will not cover the following:
..
2. You will not be covered  for any claims  under section A - Cancellation  and cutting  short your 
holiday that result directly  or indirectly from any medical condition you knew about  at the 
time of taking out this insurance or when booking a trip, and that affects:
 A close relative (see Definition on page 12) who is not travelling and is not insured under 
this policy;
 Someone  travelling with you who is not insured under this policy ;
 A business associate;  or
 A person you plan to stay with on your trip.
Subject to the terms and conditions, such claims may only be covered  if the patients doctor is 
prepared to state  that at the date you bought this policy  or of booking a trip, he/she would 
have seen no substantial  likelihood of his/her patients condition deteriorating  to such a 
degree that you would need to cancel your trip. If the doctor  will not confirm  this, your claim is 
not covered. In the event of a claim the doctor must complete the medical certificate on the 
claim form.
And this is also repeated  in the Special conditions section and which also applies in this 
complaint. 
In order to meet any claim regarding  holiday  cancellation,  medical  evidence  would need to 
be provided by Mr P. So he provided the following:
A doctors letter dated 12 November 2018  sent to Mapfre by Mr P. This 
letter states at the present time this patient is not fit to travel due to a viral 
illness that hes had since 7 November 2018;
A medical certificate  dated 31 January 2019  sent by Mr P. This confirmed 
Mr Z suffered from a viral illness and states the exact date of onset of the 
illness was 7 November 2018.  It also says Mr Z was advised to cancel the 
Ref: DRN26690144holiday on 12 November 2018. There  was some inconsistency with the 
handwriting and also some incomplete  information.
Mr P has said he doesnt understand why Mapfre hasnt taken the letter and the medical 
certificate as evidence of Mr Z falling  ill. He feels these were enough to validate  the claim 
sufficiently. He also doesnt understand why Mapfre had to request information directly  from 
the doctor.  
Firstly, the policy specifically requires  a medical certificate  and I dont think this requirement 
is out of line with whats expected in industry practice. So while Mr P provided the letter,  this 
wasnt enough as it didnt provide the complete information needed for Mapfre  to decide on 
whether it should  pay the claim.  The letter says at the present time, this patient is not fit to 
travel and its dated 12 November 2018. The departure date was 7 November  2018  so the 
letter wasnt  clear enough in establishing  when Mr Z actually fell ill. I think  it was reasonable 
for Mapfre to ask for a medical  certificate  from the doctor to clarify this.
As such,  a medical certificate  was subsequently provided by Mr P. Ive looked at this too but 
I dont think the certificate or the letter  were  enough  to validate the claim. There  was still an 
issue of whether Mr Z was ill to the extent that he couldnt travel  on 7 November 2018.  
Theres nothing in either the letter  or the medical certificate that gives clear information about  
the health of Mr Z on the day of travel  and when he actually started to show signs of the 
illness. So I dont think Mapfre has treated Mr P unfairly by asking for more information in the 
form of actual medical records directly from the doctor. 
The medical records were  then received from the doctor. The covering letter confirms that a 
doctors appointment was booked on 12 November 2018 and was requested on that same 
day. The doctor couldnt confirm whether attempts were made to book an appointment prior 
to 12 November. And notes made by the doctor  from the day of the appointment confirm  that 
Mr Z had a viral illness for last 2 weeks, headaches  sinus symptoms .
Given that the medical records were sent by the doctor directly to Mapfre, between the three  
forms of communication  we have, I think the latest information sent directly by the doctor to 
Mapfre adds most  weight. While the letter and the medical certificate are also from the same 
doctor, the information  given in those werent  entirely clear  about the timing of when Mr Z 
became ill and were  also inconsistent. The medical records taken straight from Mr Zs 
patient information seem to me to be the most accurate in determining what  actually  
happened and when. The notes say that Mr Z had a viral illness for the last two weeks  
meaning that it wouldve been  around  29 October  2018 that Mr Z became ill. 
As Ive said above,  its not in dispute  that Mr Z was unwell. But the issue is the timing of 
when Mr P became  aware of the illness and the timing of the when he bought  the policy. 
Having reviewed all of the information  available,  Im persuaded that it was reasonable of 
Mapfre to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr P bought the policy with the 
awareness that Mr Z was ill. Ive based  this finding on the medical records provided by the 
doctor as those are the notes taken straight  from the database and added on the day Mr Z 
visited the doctor on 12 November 2018. The notes are a copy  of what  was recorded by the 
doctor on that day. 
In addition to this, theres no evidence to suggest that Mr Z attempted to make an 
appointment prior to 12 November 2018 and while I accept the doctors surgery doesnt  keep 
records of attempts to book appointments by patients, in conjunction with the other available  
evidence, it looks like 12 November 2018 was the first time Mr Z saw a doctor. This further 
Ref: DRN26690145leads me to think that Mr P cancelled the holiday before Mr Z sought any medical guidance  
on his fitness  to travel. I would have expected Mr Z to have sought medical attention  much  
closer to the date of their departure but I cant see that this happened.  
The evidence suggests it was likely  Mr Z became  ill in late October 2018. So, Mr P went 
ahead with his immunisations on 1 November  perhaps in the hope that Mr Z would recover 
prior to the holiday departure date. But it looks like Mr Z was still too ill to travel on 
7 November 2018. Theres also no confirmation  from the doctor which  suggests  Mr Z was 
too ill to travel on 7 November 2018   we only have  information which  says that he was too 
ill to travel at the present  time  (that date being  12 November 2018).
I must determine this complaint by reference  to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  In the light of all the evidence and submissions, I dont think  Mapfre 
was incorrect to conclude  that Mr P took out the policy when he did because it was 
foreseeable that he would need  to claim.  As such, I find it didnt treat Mr P unfairly  by 
declining the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.  It follows  that I dont 
find that Mapfre needs to do anything further. 
Mapfre has offered to refund the premium  to Mr P as a gesture  of goodwill. My 
understanding is that this offer is still open  to Mr P and I will leave it that Mr P informs Mapfre  
if he wishes to accept  this. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint against  Mapfre Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A..
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 Septemeber 2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2669014