K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua continued to increase his credit limit when 
he couldnt afford it. 
background
In February 2013  Mr N took out a credit  card with NewDay.  Initially he was given a credit 
limit of £250.  Between July 2013  and December 2014, NewDay  increased Mr Ns credit limit 
four times.  
Mr N says that he couldnt afford the credit limit increases NewDay allowed him. Mr N tells 
us that the balance on his credit card account often reached and exceeded the limit, and he 
only ever repaid the minimum  monthly  amount. 
Mr N complained to NewDay about  this. And NewDay responded to say that in July 2013, 
Mr Ns account was reviewed, and he was offered a credit limit increase from £250 to 
£1,050. A letter was sent to Mr N about  this on 28 July 2013   the letter  gave him the option 
to opt out of the increase if he didnt want it. Because Mr N didnt opt out, the increase took 
effect.
In December 2013, Mr Ns credit limit increased  from £1,050  to £1,300  and again in 
July 2014 from £1300  to £2050. In December 2014,  he was offered  a credit limit increase 
from £2,050 to £3,100. Because Mr N didnt opt out of the proposed increases, the final 
increase took effect from January 2015. NewDay said in its final response to Mr N that it 
hadnt done anything wrong  when offering Mr N the increases. And so, it didnt uphold his 
complaint. 
Mr N then came to this service and asked  us to look into his complaint. He told us that he 
would like NewDay to refund any interest and other  charges that were applied to his 
account. Hes also asked  for any adverse information to be removed from his credit file in 
relation to this account.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr N and decided that NewDay had acted unfairly by 
allowing the increases on Mr Ns account.  He thought that Mr Ns account management 
history showed that he often exceeded  the agreed  credit limit and so he shouldnt  have been 
given further increases.  The investigator  asked NewDay to put things right for Mr N by 
refunding any interest or charges that were  applied to Mr Ns account from the date of the 
first credit limit increase until the debt was sold. He also asked that NewDay  remove  any 
adverse credit reference reporting it submitted up until the sale of the debt. And Newday 
should pay Mr N £100 in compensation for the mistakes made in increasing  his limit.
NewDay didnt agree with our investigator. It said it had followed its Responsible Lending 
policies when providing Mr N his credit limit increases.
In addition to this it said, over limit and high utilisation is a strong predictor of risk within its 
internal risk score. It said it would exclude customers  for credit limit increases if they are over 
the limit as well as where a customer has incurred an over limit fee for three consecutive 
months prior to any increase taking  effect.  
Because NewDay didnt agree, the complaint  has been passed to me to make a decision on 
the matter.
Ref: DRN27436222my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I agree that Mr Ns 
complaint should  be upheld.  
The rules  and regulations throughout NewDays lending relationship with Mr N required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay 
what he owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment  or affordability  check.
These checks needed to be borrower  focussed and so NewDay  needed  to consider not 
only the likelihood of it getting  its money back,  but also whether repaying the credit would 
cause undue difficulties  for Mr N.
The checks  needed  to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the lending.  
Generally, what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent  upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit involved.
Mr N has provided me with a more  detailed account  of his circumstances  and his financial 
position when  NewDay offered him the increases.  Its clear from what  Mr N has told us that 
he was struggling  financially  so I now need  to decide if NewDay  carried  out the appropriate 
checks and increased  his credit limit responsibly  by taking into account what  Ive said above. 
And if there were any indicators that Mr N might not have  been able to afford the increases.
With this in mind, I have gone on to consider each credit limit increase NewDay  has allowed
Mr N.
the first credit limit increase in September 2013
In July 2013, NewDay sent Mr N a letter to say that it would like to offer him a credit limit 
increase from £250 to £1050. The letter said that it had done this based on how Mr N had 
managed his account so far. 
This new limit was four times the amount of the original limit, and in my opinion,  this 
represents a significant increase. So NewDay needed to carry out the appropriate  checks to 
ensure that Mr N could  afford this increase in borrowing. 
NewDay has sent me a copy of its internal  data it says it took into account when offering him 
the increase. Looking  at this data, it shows that in the first six months Mr N had his credit 
card account, he had gone over the agreed  credit limit in three out of the six months   and 
hed been charged two over the limit fees.  Based on the information NewDay has sent me, in 
the month prior to the increase, Mr N was charged an over limit fee and a late payment fee.
In my view, this doesnt represent good  account management and it shows  that Mr N was 
struggling with the limit he already  had  and he was late with a repayment to the account.  
With the above in mind,  it isnt clear to me why NewDay went  ahead  and increased Mr Ns 
limit to four times the original limit when I think  he was already showing signs  of not being  
Ref: DRN27436223able to manage the limit he already had. I dont agree  that NewDay should have increased 
Mr Ns credit limit on this occasion.
the credit  limit increase in January 2014
Based on the information Ive seen, Mr N requested for his limit to be increased  on this 
occasion  and NewDay accepted the request. Mr Ns credit limit increased  from £1050 to 
£1300. Regardless of how the increase was offered, NewDay still needed  to carry out the 
appropriate checks to make sure Mr N could afford the increased  limit. 
NewDays internal  data (that it used to decide  to increase Mr Ns limit)  shows  that in the 
three months Mr N had the £1050 limit, he had been  over the limit on one occasion. Again, 
demonstrating that he was struggling  with the previous limit. This increase was six times the 
original limit of £250. Given Mr Ns previous poor account  management,  and the significance 
in the increase, I think NewDay ought  to have  carried out some more  thorough  checks 
before offering him this limit. 
the credit  limit increase in July 2014
NewDays data shows that since Mr Ns last credit limit increase in January 2014, hed been 
over his agreed credit limit three  months  out of six. He had also been  charged a late 
payment fee. For the same reasons as Ive already  mentioned  above,  I dont  think  NewDay  
ought to have increased Mr Ns credit  limit on this occasion.
the credit  limit increase in January 2015
Ive seen a copy  of the letter NewDay sent to Mr N about the increase in December 2014.  It 
said that based on Mr Ns account management  it felt that a new increase of £3100  would  be 
suitable for him. 
Again, looking  at NewDays own data from this time it shows  that Mr N had exceeded his 
previous limit on three occasions  and hed been  charged a fee. He had also received a late 
payment fee. As with the other  increases, I dont  think this represents someone who is 
managing their account according to the terms and conditions. And I think  this demonstrates 
that Mr N was struggling financially.   
Based on the internal data provided  to me by NewDay, I dont think it should  have increased  
Mr Ns credit limit on any occasion. The information shows  that Mr N was struggling to keep 
within his agreed  limit, and he was also making payments to the account late. Since the first 
credit limit increase, Mr N has been  over the limit on 27 occasions and he has also been  
charged for making late repayments on 5 occasions. 
NewDay says that it wouldnt have increased a credit limit if its customer  had been charged 
three over limit fees on three  consecutive  months leading up to the increase. It also wouldnt 
increase the limit if the account  was showing as over the limit at the time of the increase. 
NewDay says it no longer has Mr Ns statements so, its difficult  for me to know  if Mr N was 
over the credit limit when the increases took place. But based on the information NewDay 
has given me, it does look like it went ahead with some of the increases even though  he was 
already over the limit  something it says it wouldnt do.
Ref: DRN27436224While I agree it would  be irresponsible to increase a limit when the account  had been  
charged an over limit fee for three consecutive months prior to the proposed  increase,  I also 
think it needed to consider  general account management. Which in Mr Ns case would show  
that going over the limit was a regular occurrence. 
NewDay has said that where a customer brings  the account back under the limit in the same 
statement month, then it wouldnt take this into account when  deciding  whether to increase 
the limit. But in my opinion, I think that it should. Being over the limit on numerous occasions 
demonstrates poor account management  and can be an indicator of financial difficulties. It 
also shows that Mr N was continually  very close to his credit limit. Not taking this into 
account, is not in my view taking  into consideration the high utilisation of the account   which 
NewDay tells me it considers when making a lending  decision.
Before coming to my decision on this case I asked NewDay for some more information  about 
how it checked Mr N could afford the increase  in borrowing. It responded with the same  
information it had already  provided me. And told me that it was outside of industry  practice to 
ask for a financial statement from a customer before increasing the limit. NewDay  might  not 
have had to specifically request an income  and expenditure report from Mr N, but it did need 
to check he could afford the limit. Without  requesting something similar to an income  and 
expenditure report, I dont see how NewDay could satisfy itself that Mr N could afford the 
significant increases  in his credit limit. For example,  it couldnt  have  known his income  at the 
time of each  increase, or how much he was paying  out for other  commitments  each month.  
Ive seen what NewDay has said about  it sending Mr N letters  giving him the opportunity to
opt out of the proposed  limit increases. But I dont see how this makes a difference  as to 
whether it was fair and reasonable to offer these limit increases in the first place.
Subsequently, Mr N contacted NewDay in 2016 to let it know  that he could no longer afford  
the repayments to the account.  And that hed been in touch with a third-party debt charity to 
help him manage  his finances. In my view, the credit limit increases NewDay  kept giving 
Mr N had put undue stress on his financial  position  and had significantly contributed to the 
situation Mr N found himself in. 
fair compensation  what  Im telling NewDay to do to put things right  for Mr N
As Mr N had to pay a significant amount  of interest  and charges as a result of his credit limit 
unfairly being increased from September 2013 onwards, I think that he lost out because of 
what NewDay did wrong. So NewDay should  put things right.  
In most cases, where credit has been provided  when it shouldnt  have been, it would be fair 
and reasonable for the lender to refund  any interest  and charges paid by the borrower (if 
they were any) plus interest.  And the borrower would be expected to repay any remaining 
amount of the funds they were given. So Id expect Mr N to pay back the funds  he was lent  
when he used his card  but not the interest.  
NewDay should rework Mr Ns account to remove the effect of any interest and charges 
accrued on the account as a result  of the unfair  credit limit increases which  took place in 
September 2013, January  2014, July 2014  and January 2015. In other words, for the period 
from the September 2013 statement, NewDay can only add any interest due on the first 
£250 of the balance  all late payment and over limit fees also need to be refunded 
irrespective of what any reconstructed final balance may show.  
Ref: DRN27436225The payments Mr N made from September 2013  onwards should then be applied  to the 
reworked balance. Any extra that was paid should  be treated as overpayments and returned 
to Mr N. NewDay should also add interest, at 8% simple per year, from the date any 
overpayment was made to the date of settlement.
NewDay should also remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ns credit file as a 
result of this account.
I also think NewDay should pay Mr N £100 compensation for the stress it placed  on his 
financial situation  and in turn him.
All of this means  that in order  to put things  right for Mr N, Im telling NewDay  to:
rework the account to ensure that from September 2013 interest is only charged on 
the first £250.00 outstanding to reflect the fact that no further  credit  limit increases 
should have been  provided.  All late payment and over limit fees should also be 
removed; and
the payments  Mr N made from September 2013 should then be deducted  from the 
reworked account balance. Any extra that was paid should  be treated  as 
overpayments and refunded to Mr N; and
Pay Mr N an additional £100 for the trouble  and upset  it caused by continually  
increasing his limit.
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if they were any, from the 
date they were made to the date of settlement 
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest.  NewDay must 
give Mr N a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
From what  Ive seen it appears as though  NewDay sold the outstanding balance on this 
account to a third-party debt purchaser. So, it either needs to buy the account back  from the 
third party and make the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party  in order  
for it to make  the necessary adjustments, or pay Mr N an amount to ensure that it fully 
complies with this direction.
Finally, NewDay should  arrange a suitable repayment plan with Mr N if an outstanding 
balance remains on the account after all adjustments have  been  made.  
Ref: DRN27436226my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. NewDay  Ltd should put 
things right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2743622