K821x#15complaint
Miss B is complaining about a claim she made  under her car insurance policy with 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage)  after her car was stolen. Advantage 
relied on a clause in her policy,  refusing  to pay out for the loss of the car. Miss B wants 
Advantage to settle her claim. 
background
On 9 February 2019, Miss B left her house  to visit her elderly father. Shes told us her car 
was parked within a fenced and gated area within her property. She said she opened her 
gates and reversed  her car out onto a lane between the boundary to her property and the 
road. She said that after looking around, she decided  to close and padlock  the gates. As she 
did this, she left the key in the cars ignition with the engine running. This isnt disputed.  
Miss B had difficulty in closing the padlock,  although  she says, she spent no more  than five 
seconds doing this. And she says she kept looking  around about her. She says the only 
people she saw were  the usual dog-walkers. Shes told us that, as she stood  at the gates, 
she was only two or three steps away from her car. This was approximately three or four 
feet, or one metre.  She says she didnt go off and leave her car unattended  at any time.
Miss B says she turned  from the gates to get back into her car and saw a man reaching for 
the door handle.  She says they both reached the car door more  or less simultaneously,  but 
the man was slightly quicker.  He jumped into the car and locked the doors. Miss B told us 
that she pulled at the cars door handle,  trying to open it but it was locked. She says she 
started banging on the driver's door window.  But the man started pulling away and drove off. 
This all took place within a matter  of seconds.
Because her phone and keys had been  in the car, Miss B couldnt phone  anyone for help or 
get back into her house. So, the dog walkers and neighbours  phoned the police. They drove  
her around to see if they could find her car. They couldnt, but a crime report  was issued.
Miss B says the theft has left her financially and socially inhibited.  She is now without a car, 
but still paying off the finance  she used to buy it. She is unable  to go shopping  and her 
independence has suffered. She says the impact of the theft has been traumatic.
Miss B reported the theft to her insurers. They responded  in identical terms on 5 and 
8 March. They pointed  out that in an interview on 26 February,  Miss B accepted shed got 
out of the vehicle, leaving the key in the ignition and the engine running.
The insurers  highlighted section 2 of their policy booklet. They  said that the loss of Miss Bs 
car wasnt covered  if (a) the ignition key had been left in or on the car; or (b) the car had 
been left unattended  with the engine  running. They said the circumstances of the theft fell 
within these exclusions.  So, they wouldnt settle Miss Bs claim.
Miss B complained to Advantage, asking them to reconsider. But Advantage said they were 
standing by their decision  not to settle the claim.  So, on 23 May,  Miss B complained  to us.
In his view of 22 October 2019,  our investigator  said he thought Advantage should 
reconsider Miss Bs claim and deal with it under  the remaining terms and conditions of her 
policy. Advantage said they didnt agree, so the case  has come to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN26950432my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Meeting Miss Bs claim
In email correspondence of 16 September, Advantage  maintained their position. They said 
that the crux of the matter was that Miss B hadnt  removed her keys and locked the vehicle,  
in accordance with the terms of her policy. If she had, the thief wouldnt have been able to 
steal her car in the way he did. So, they wouldnt be settling Miss Bs claim.
Ive looked at Miss Bs policy documents. And I see she was covered for loss by theft of her 
car up to its market value.  But I note that there were also a number of exceptions and 
exclusions to the policy. On page  17 of her policy booklet, under the heading Significant 
policy exclusions and limitations, there  is a list of general exceptions.  One of these  reads:
Loss of or damage to your car while:
(a) the ignition  keys have been left in or on your car or;
(b) your car has been  left unattended with the engine  running.
This so-called "keys  in car" exclusion clause is what Advantage are relying on here.  And, set 
down in black and white, this all seems pretty clear. But I think  theres more to it than that. 
When an insurer turns down a claim for theft, we look at the evidence  supporting  their 
decision. And we look at all the surrounding circumstances too. This would especially 
include things like where the car was at the time of the theft, and whether Miss B had been 
in a position to deter  the thief or make it likely that a theft wouldnt happen in the first place.
Miss B doesnt dispute that she left her keys in her car. But our normal  approach in deciding  
what the fair and reasonable  outcome is in this type of complaint is to consider whether 
Miss B had actually left her car unattended. This is because we take the view that leaving  
the keys in the car should be taken to mean more than just leaving the keys in the ignition. 
We think it should be taken to mean leaving  the keys in the ignition  and moving away from 
the car leaving it unattended.
So, I need to consider  whether Miss Bs car was actually left unattended,  given the distance  
she was from it. And I need to look at all the circumstances of the case. So, Ive looked 
through all the email  correspondence and considered  Miss Bs account  of what  happened.  
On 11 April, the insurers wrote to Miss B to follow up an earlier phone conversation. They  
wrote: I appreciate you were leaving your house,  unlocked your gates. You reversed your 
car out, left your keys in the car when  and closed the car door. You then went  to shut and 
lock the gates. You explained that you were very close  to your car, only leaving it for a 
matter of seconds, and while trying  to lock the gate you were constantly checking your 
surroundings. When you turned around, you saw a man who reached  for your car and 
jumped in just before  you could reach them. They were able to lock the car before you could  
open the door and they drove away. So, Advantage still wouldnt agree to settle Miss Bs 
claim but I think from this that they dont dispute Miss Bs account of actually happened.
Miss Bs account is clear and has remained consistent from her complaint form onwards. 
She told us that, as she stood at the gates, she was only two or three steps  away  from her 
car (approximately three or four feet, or one metre).  So, she says she didn't walk back to the 
car. She was already  there. And, she tells us her car wasnt  left unattended at any point.
Ref: DRN26950433Ive also looked  at photographs Miss B provided with her email of 18 March. These show the 
gates of her house  and the exact scene of the theft. Theyre consistent  with her account  and 
show how close everything was to each other during the incident. So, again, I accept what 
Miss Bs said that she didnt leave the car unattended as she was closing her gates.
Im persuaded that this isnt a case of Miss B parking her car any distance from the gates  
she was closing. Or that she went back into her house, away  from her car. If she had, Id 
agree that shed  left her car unattended so her insurer  would be entitled to reject  her claim. 
But she remained at her cars side at all times. Her presence didnt succeed in deterring the 
thief. But Miss B was close enough to be able to intervene in an attempt to prevent  the thief 
driving away. And she did this by trying the car door and banging  on the car window.
So, under the particular  circumstances of this case,  I dont think its fair or reasonable for 
Advantage to rely on the above-mentioned keys in car exclusion.  This is because I dont 
think Miss B actually left her car unattended.
In reply to our investigators  view, the insurers  said that if Miss B had locked her car and 
removed the keys, then the car wouldnt have  been stolen in the first place. While that may 
be true, I still think the fair and reasonable outcome is reached  by considering whether 
Miss B actually left her car unattended, with or with the key in it.
In her response to our view, Miss B also raised two further issues  when she was told the 
complaint was going for an ombudsmans decision.  These were loss of use and distress 
and inconvenience.
Loss of use
I also think Miss B should be awarded something  for loss of use. This is where  a consumer 
has been unable  to use their car because of the actions of their insurer.  And an award is 
compensation for the fact that the consumer was without a car when they shouldnt have 
been. In this case, its because I think Advantage wrongly refused to settle  Miss Bs claim.
Miss Bs financial circumstances are such that shes continued to pay monthly  for a car she 
no longer owns  while  being unable to take out a new finance arrangement to buy a 
replacement car. Shes now unable  to go shopping or go out in the evenings  without having 
to pay for a taxi. Or to go away on holiday and take family trips out. So, the lack of a car has 
meant her daily life and independence has suffered very significantly. And while  Miss B 
didnt hire another car because  she didnt  have the means, I note that she did what she 
could to improve her circumstances by using public  transport, doing some  shopping  on the 
way back from work  and asking her son to help out where he could.
I appreciate that Miss B still hasnt  got a car but, overall, allowing for the lockdown period 
and her particular  circumstances, Im going to award her the sum of £5 per day for loss of 
use. I think this is fair and reasonable.  And I think this should start from the date of the theft 
of Miss Bs car on 9 February 2019  until the date this PD is issued. This is 496 days  so the 
total amount should be 496 x £5 which is £2,480.
Distress and inconvenience
I also think Miss B is due something for the distress and inconvenience  of having her claim 
wrongly turned down.  Because I think Advantages wrong approach has left Miss B severely  
restricted, financially  and socially, with a major impact on her quality of life, I think they 
Ref: DRN26950434should pay her something in compensation. Ive already described some  of the implications 
of being without a car. But not having  a car has also left Miss B isolated at weekends  from 
most of her family, most of whom dont drive  and depended on her too. She says she may 
never be able to afford to drive again. The theft also coincided with the loss of Miss Bs 
father, which would  have  made things still harder.  So, Im going to award  £350  for this.
Paying for finance
Miss B also raised the issue of continuing  to pay the finance  despite no longer having  the 
car. Although, if Advantage  had settled her claim shed have been able to clear the debt on 
her finance,  Miss B has indicated that if her claim had been  paid, shed  have taken out 
another agreement  to get another car on the same  terms. So, Im not going  to award 
anything further  here.
Summary
In summary,  I dont think Advantage should rely on the keys in car exclusion and should  
reconsider Miss Bs claim under the remaining terms and conditions of her policy. And they 
should make  the awards I have directed above  for loss of use and distress and 
inconvenience.
the response to my provisional  decision
Miss B accepted  my provisional  decision. Advantage disagreed. They  referred to their policy 
documentation and repeated their earlier arguments, affirming  their existing position.
So, now the case has been passed  back to me to for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
Advantage have  continued to maintain that Miss B breached  the terms of the policy and was 
responsible for the loss of her car. But, as Ive said, I think  that leaving the keys in the car 
should be taken  to mean more than just leaving the keys in the ignition. I believe it should 
mean leaving the keys in the ignition and leaving the car unattended. So, I dont think its fair 
and reasonable for Advantage to rely on these terms.
So, having  considered the response  to my provisional decision, Ive no reason to depart from 
the findings Ive already reached  in this case. And my decision remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited should reconsider Miss Bs claim. And they should pay her £2,480  for loss of use 
and £350 for distress  and inconvenience, as described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Ref: DRN26950435Simon Stanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2695043