K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc recorded a CIFAS  marker  against his 
name. CIFAS  is one of the UKs fraud alert services.
Background
On 10 November 2017, Mr Bs account received a payment of £9,451.11. Later that same 
day the money was withdrawn through six mobile  banking transactions  and one ATM cash 
withdrawal. 
On 15 November NatWest received a report saying that the credit  was a fraudulent  
transaction. Its fraud  team  carried out an investigation and, as the money had been spent, 
closed Mr Bs account. It was satisfied  that Mr B knew about  the fraud and it recorded a 
CIFAS marker  against  him.
In February 2019,  finding it difficult to open  a bank account, Mr B complained to NatWest 
and asked for the marker to be removed.  NatWest was satisfied that it had taken the correct  
fraud prevention measures and wouldnt remove the marker.
Mr B said he didnt  carry out the transactions and knew nothing about  them  and he referred  
his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt see how 
Mr Bs mobile banking, card and PIN details  were all compromised. He thought NatWest 
acted fairly  in closing  Mr Bs account  and recording the CIFAS marker.
Mr B didnt agree. He said,  in summary, that:
If he wanted  to commit  a fraud  he wouldnt use his own account, IP address and device. 
Someone must  have changed the device identification  and IP address to make  it look 
like him.
He didnt know  about the credit  on his account until NatWest  sent him a letter about it.
He went into a branch to report what had happened but he couldnt  be traced on the 
banks systems.
Our investigator asked  Mr B to provide a copy of the letter,  details of which branch he visited  
and when and how he thought someone  could have used his device and his mobile  banking  
account to carry out the transactions. But Mr B didnt respond.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN28939952NatWest said it applied  the CIFAS marker  because an inception  fraud  had taken place. This 
means, Mr B had been the beneficiary  of a credit  which wasnt for him but for someone else. 
It was most likely that an email exchange had been intercepted and the beneficiary  account 
details had been changed. Mr B had spent the money which  wasnt his. And he hadnt  
contacted the bank  to report his card lost or stolen, so it appeared that he had carried out the 
transactions.
Ive looked at whether NatWest was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence it had 
and the investigation it carried out and what the rules say about applying such markers.
CIFAS standards for recording a marker  are very high and the bank must  believe  it has 
reasonable grounds to make a report to the police. 
Having reviewed Mr Bs version  of events and the evidence  NatWest has provided,  Im 
satisfied that NatWest has enough  evidence  for a CIFAS marker  to be recorded  on his file. In 
coming to this view,  Ive taken into account the following:
NatWest has evidence to show  the credit received on 10 November 2017 was 
fraudulent.
To carry out the mobile banking withdrawals a fraudster  would  have needed access to 
Mr Bs card, PIN and online banking security  information. And the transactions were  
carried out using Mr Bs mobile phone and from an IP address that hed used before. He 
didnt report his phone lost or stolen. So the only likely  explanation is that Mr B knew  
about, and authorised, these  transactions.
To carry out the ATM withdrawal, a fraudster  would have needed Mr Bs card and PIN, 
which Mr B said was in his possession  he did not report it lost or stolen.
Ive not seen a plausible explanation for how a third party could  obtain  Mr Bs card, 
mobile phone  and online banking log in details without him being  aware.
There were several mobile banking log ins to the account  from Mr Bs phone  after the 
transactions. This suggests  to me that Mr B was checking  his account and knew about 
the transactions but didnt report them as fraudulent.  He says he didnt know  about the 
credit until NatWest wrote  to him. But NatWest has no record of sending a letter  and Mr 
B hasnt been able to provide a copy.  I think its more  likely that Mr B knew  about the 
transactions when he logged on to mobile  banking.
When NatWest told him it was closing his account, he didnt  reply.  It seems it was only 
when he tried to open  an account  more than a year later that he decided to complain 
about the CIFAS  marker. I would  have expected  him to query the account closure at the 
time if he hadnt  authorised the transactions.
Taking everything into account,  I find that NatWest has met the burden of proof required by 
CIFAS to add the marker.  So Im not going  to ask the bank to remove  it.
Ref: DRN28939953My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2893995