K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999 by post.  Mr F says Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Capital One had to make Mr F aware  the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before 
adding it to his card. Capital One has sent us a copy of Mr Fs credit card application form. 
The form had a separate section for PPI which gave Mr F the choice to accept or decline the 
policy. The option  to take the policy has been  selected and the form has been signed in 
agreement with the selections that have been  made  on it. With this in mind I think 
Capital One made it clear  that Mr F didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he may not remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr F so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr F got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  he chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  he had of 
making his repayments  which included sick pay. But the PPI would have  paid out in addition  
to any sick pay Mr F would have been entitled to.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Fs circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr F about  that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr F, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr F has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN29673522The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr F any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2967352