K822xThe complaint  
Mr Hs complaint is about a car he has been financing through  an agreement  with RCI 
Financial Services Limited, trading as Nissan Finance (Nissan). He says the vehicle 
identification was incorrect.  
Whilst I understand Mr H has been  represented throughout this complaint  I will refer to Mr H 
in this decision as his is the name on the finance  agreement.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties so I wont  repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator.  
The investigator had suggested that to resolve the complaint Nissan should pay Mr H £300 
in respect of the distress and inconvenience  hed experienced. He also suggested that they 
should work with the DVLA to ensure the vehicle  identification issue  was resolved. 
The complaint has moved  on a little since the investigator provided his view.  The term of the 
contract has been completed; the car has been  returned and the vehicle identification issue  
resolved.
So Ive considered whether the £300  compensation suggested by the investigator  is 
sufficient and I think it is. Its clear Mr H was inconvenienced by the problem and I can see 
that there  was a lack of clarity about  what the business were doing about  the cars  
registration. The DVLAs position and the dealerships position were at odds and Mr H was 
stuck in the middle through  no fault of his own and understandably concerned  about his 
insurance and problems he may have if he had to prove he was the rightful  custodian  of the 
car.  But for the first three years of ownership he wasnt aware that there  was a vehicle 
identification issue and it was clearly resolved by the end of the final fourth  year of his 
contract. I can also see that whilst  Mr H didnt have  the car he was provided with a courtesy  
car of a higher specification and that the insurance was looked  after by the dealership. So I 
think the level of compensation suggested is about right.
But I dont think it would  have been reasonable to ask the business  to reject the car as it was 
functioning correctly  and it seems clear  the business  did fulfil the contract they had with 
Mr H. 
Ref: DRN21521582My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order  to resolve Mr Hs 
complaint, RCI Financial Services Limited should  pay him £300 to compensate  him for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2152158