K820x#14complaint
Ms S complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax:
-wouldnt agree  to continue a formal  concessionary arrangement to allow her to 
continue paying  a lower amount on her mortgage;
-refused to let her have a fixed interest  rate instead of a standard  variable  rate;
-didnt provide good customer service;  and
-didnt follow its policy towards  her as a vulnerable person.
Ms S wants compensation of around £7,000 for interest charged, plus compensation for her 
time spent  on the complaint. 
background
Ms S and her partner had a Halifax mortgage. In 2014, they took a four year fixed rate 
product which  was in place  until 31 July 2018, when the mortgage went  onto the standard  
variable rate.
By 2018, Ms S and her partner had split up, and Ms S was no longer working. Ms S had 
agreed a number of payment arrangements with Halifax.  But when the fixed rate came to an 
end on 31 July 2018, Halifaxs Collections team wouldnt consider another  payment 
arrangement. Nor would it allow a product transfer  to a fixed  rate. At that point, the mortgage 
was £10,007.47  nearly five months - in arrears. Instead, Halifax  said it would consider 
making an arrangement  for Ms S to pay the contractual monthly payment, plus an extra  
amount towards  the arrears.
Ms S complained. Halifax  replied that the reason it wouldnt  consider either  another  reduced 
payment arrangement,  or a product  transfer, was the level of the arrears. It explained that 
fixed rate products would  have an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) which  could run into 
thousands of pounds.  And Halifax didnt consider it would be responsible to tie a customer in 
financial difficulties into a product which carried an ERC, in case  possession action had to be 
taken.
Ms S complained to her MP. Halifax didnt  agree  with all the points of complaint, but it 
accepted that it could  have transferred the account to its Customer Priority Team  earlier.  
This team was trained  to help customers needing a higher level of support, and Halifax paid 
Ms S £500 because  it could have transferred her account earlier.  It also paid her £250  
because of the time it had taken to review  the complaint.
There was also legal  action between Ms S and her ex-partner. In early  February  2019,  a 
payment of £16,262.09 was made to the mortgage  account, reducing the arrears to below 
one month. This meant that Halifax could accept an application for a product transfer to a 
fixed rate. Ms Ss ex-partners consent  wasnt needed, because of the legal actions, and the 
mortgage was put onto a fixed rate of 2.09% until 30 April 2021.  The contractual monthly  
payment was £1698.60. Ms S wasnt working and was unable  to meet  the payments herself. 
In April 2019, Ms Ss ex-partner was declared  bankrupt. That meant that Halifax  couldnt  
pursue him under the joint mortgage. It could  still rely on Ms Ss original agreement  to repay 
the mortgage, and the security of the property. Halifax  considered the situation and agreed 
Ms Ss request to remove her ex-partner from the mortgage. It said it would only do so once 
Ms S had arranged for her ex-partner to be removed from the Land  Registrys records.
Ref: DRN23393572In June, Halifax paid Ms S a further £1,000 compensation in relation to her complaint, 
making £1,750  in all. Ms S wasnt satisfied. She wanted a refund of the interest charged at 
standard variable  rate from July 2018  to March  2019, plus compensation. She said that the 
phone calls and correspondence meant her return to work had been delayed.
Our investigator considered Ms Ss complaint carefully. She looked  at the specific issues Ms 
S had raised, which Ive set out above. The investigator said:
-in relation to concessions, she wouldnt  expect  Halifax to let Ms S make payments 
lower than the contractual monthly payment in the long term. This was because there 
would be arrears  and an increase in Ms Ss overall debt,  which might harm her ability  
to repay  the mortgage over the rest of the term. And any concession would be a 
temporary measure;
-in relation to new products, there was nothing in the mortgage terms and conditions  
to say Halifax had to make a new rate available.  It was because Ms S had been  in 
arrears that she hadnt been offered a new product in 2018;
-it was clear Ms S had been through a tough time. But Halifax  hadnt known all the 
circumstances when  it made its initial decision in September  2018. It had now agreed 
to extend the concessionary period, on a temporary basis. The investigator 
considered Halifax  had taken Ms Ss vulnerability into account.
So the investigator considered the steps  Halifax had taken had been fair and reasonable.
Ms S didnt agree. She said:
-the period  when  the mortgage  was on the standard variable rate had had an 
unbearable effect of increasing the debt. She believed Halifax should have frozen the 
interest rate at her original fixed rate, or reduced  it to a lower rate without committing 
to the terms of a fixed rate agreement; 
-she believed Halifax should  pay her £7,000 for the difference  between her previous 
fixed rate and the standard variable rate shed been  charged.  This was for the 
interest between July 2018 and March 2019,  and didnt include the length of time 
shed spent dealing  with Halifax;
-if shed concentrated  on a job search instead of having to deal with Halifax,  shed 
have been in work already;
-there were further sums which she believed were owing to her from her ex-partner;
-she wanted us to take into account the Economic  Abuse government policies which 
she felt were applicable to her case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ms S has raised multiple points in her 
Ref: DRN23393573submissions to the service. Ive understood and looked into all of those, but Ive commented 
on what I think is vital to my conclusions. 
First, Ms S has asked that I should take into account  government  policy. Id like to reassure 
Ms S that Ive carefully considered this as part of the wider circumstances of this complaint.   
Halifax not agreeing to continue a formal concessionary arrangement to allow  Ms S to 
continue paying  a lower amount on her mortgage
The fixed  rate product  ended on 31 July 2018. At that point, the mortgage  was in arrears.  
Borrowers are obliged,  under the terms of the mortgage, to pay the contractual monthly 
payment on time each  month. Lenders  arent  obliged to offer new interest rate products 
when a previous  interest rate product expires.  Where there  are financial difficulties, however, 
this service would  expect a lender to discuss the situation, and look at ways of trying  to help, 
always bearing in mind the borrowers best interests.
Ive considered whether Halifax acted fairly towards  Ms S when it refused to continue 
previous concessionary  arrangements  in summer 2018.
Its not in a borrowers best interests  for there to be long periods when theyre making 
payments below the contractual monthly payment. Ultimately, the build-up of arrears means 
that theres less equity  in the property.  I recognise that Ms S had a sizeable amount of equity 
in the property. But if this equity were  to be reduced significantly by long-term  
underpayments, this would reduce her eventual  options.  
When Halifax wrote  its September 2018 letter refusing to set up further payment 
arrangements, the mortgage was just over £10,000  in arrears. Ms S wasnt  working  and 
there was no immediate promise of a job, and her arrears were increasing every  month.  
Although there was the possibility of lump-sums being paid to the mortgage  as a result  of the 
court action between  Ms S and her ex-partner, this was by no means  certain. So I do not 
consider Halifax was wrong  to refuse  to continue to set up further payment  arrangements at 
that point. 
Halifaxs refusal to allow  Ms S to have a fixed  interest rate instead  of a standard  variable rate
Halifax had eligibility criteria  for new interest  rate products, and these included that the 
mortgage shouldnt  be in arrears. I find thats fair. As soon as Ms S was no longer in arrears, 
she was able to take out a new rate. I find that was fair, too. 
I note that Ms S believes  that Halifax could have  frozen the interest rate at her original fixed  
rate, or reduced it to a lower rate without committing to the terms of a fixed  rate agreement.  
Halifax could have  chosen to offer this but I dont think it was unreasonable  that it chose  not 
to. Ms S was in financial  difficulties and had had a difficult time with her ex-partner,  and 
Halifax had a responsibility to act fairly towards  her. But that didnt mean Halifax  had to offer 
her exceptionally  advantageous terms that wouldnt be available to its other customers in a 
similar position.  
So I do not consider Halifax  was wrong  to refuse to allow  Ms S to set up a fixed  interest  rate 
product instead  of a standard variable rate. It follows that I dont find that Halifax  should 
refund Ms S £7,000  which shes seeking for the interest debited to her account. 
Customer service  issues,  and belief  that Halifax didnt follow its policy  towards Ms S as a 
vulnerable person
Ref: DRN23393574Halifax hasnt disputed  that Ms S was vulnerable in relation to the situation with her ex-
partner. I have seen  the banks relevant policies in relation to all types of customer 
vulnerability. 
Halifax has a team which deals specifically with customers in vulnerable  situations. Halifax 
has accepted  that it could  have referred  Ms Ss case to this specialist  team at an earlier  
stage than it did. I note that Halifax has paid Ms S a total of £1,750 compensation. In fact, 
not all of Ms Ss circumstances were clear to Halifax before December 2018. And her 
situation changed over time  for example with the ongoing court proceedings against her 
ex-partner. And Ms S stopped working in 2017,  but it wasnt  known how long her 
unemployment would last - from the information available  to me, Ms S hasnt yet secured 
any paid employment  as at November 2019.
Having looked  at the information available to me, I dont agree that Halifax failed to follow its 
vulnerability policy towards Ms S. Nor do I find that it treated Ms S unfairly or unreasonably 
in the light of her specific circumstances.  Halifax  didnt always  agree to what  Ms S wanted, 
and Ive set out some  of those disagreements  above. Ms S was vulnerable in relation to her 
ex-partner, and he hadnt contributed regularly  to the monthly mortgage payment for some 
time. The unfortunate fact was that the mortgage was due to be paid and Ms S, who became 
the sole mortgagor  after her ex-partners  bankruptcy, didnt have enough  income to pay the 
full monthly payments, and there was no visible prospect of change.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2339357