K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold a mortgage  to him in 1992.
Background
Acting as a broker, Barclays sold Mr T an interest  only mortgage with a third-party lender, for 
approximately £126,000 in 1992. In his correspondence with Barclays and this Service Mr T 
has expressed is dissatisfaction about  many  aspects  of the sale. I think  the main  issues  can 
be summarised as follows:
The mortgage repayment method was never made clear to him.
The property was overvalued, leading to several years of negative equity.
The mortgage was unaffordable and his annual  income was considerably smaller 
than that stated.
The mortgage did not do what it was supposed  to as it left part of a secured overdraft 
 approximately  £30,000  unpaid.
Given the passage  of time, the evidence available doesnt provide a complete  picture  of 
what happened at the time of the sale. But, from the evidence both parties have provided, 
Ive deduced the following:
In 1992, Mr Ts main mortgage  was for approximately £50,000  and was on a capital  
repayment basis. He also had a secured overdraft of approximately £100,000, which  
appears to have built-up as a result  of the money  Mr T spent building, rebuilding or 
refurbishing the property. And documentation from the time indicates that the property wasnt 
quite finished  at the time of the mortgage sale.
Mr T says the purpose of the new mortgage  was to repay the existing main mortgage and 
the secured overdraft. But the mortgage wasnt  enough to do that and £30,000 remained on 
the secured overdraft, which  he says was expensive because of the very high rate of interest 
at the time. Mr T says he had other property at the time: - a let terraced house, two partially 
built semi-detached houses and a builders  yard  all of which  had charges on them.  He 
subsequently sold one or more of these properties  to repay the balance  of the secured 
overdraft.
The partial application form that Ive seen shows the mortgage  was applied for on a         
self-certified income basis  and that the mortgage was to be repaid by both endowment and 
pension. But a copy of the declaration page of the application containing  Mr Ts signature is 
not available.
Barclays sold Mr T an endowment policy with a sum assured of £76,000, a term of 20 years  
and a monthly premium  of £260.55.  Mr T says the premiums were  expensive because he 
was rated  for a health  condition. The endowment provider says the policy was paid for 
approximately six months before it lapsed  due to non-payment. Mr Ts complaint about the 
sale of the endowment policy was upheld by the provider  and he received compensation of 
approximately £4,000 in October 2019.  
Mr T had several pension plans, all of which commenced some years before the mortgage. 
And the providers have  confirmed that they were never linked to the mortgage. Mr T stopped 
Ref: DRN29564172making contributions  to at least three of these plans in 1995 and transferred their fund 
values out to another pension provider in 2005.  A fourth pension  plan, predating  the 
mortgage advice,  matured in 2012  paying out a lump sum and annual  annuity.
For the purposes of the mortgage,  Mr Ts house was valued  at £175,000, but Mr T says no-
one inspected the property. He says valuations he arranged some years  later show  that the 
property was substantially  lower in value. So, he thinks the property  was falsely valued  at an 
amount to satisfy the mortgage lending  criteria.
The mortgage application states  that Mr Ts annual income was £50,000. He says his annual 
income was more in the region of £15,000 at that time. So, he also thinks this was falsified to 
satisfy the mortgage  criteria. Mr T was a self-employed builder.
In its final response letter  of December 2018, Barclays said it wasnt responsible  for the sale 
of the mortgage   though  it has since acknowledged  that it was responsible.  In its letter  it did 
confirm that it sold the endowment policy. It also said it contacted Mr Ts pension providers 
which confirmed that the plans were  never  linked  to mortgages and not sold by Barclays. 
And it didnt  sell Mr Ts mortgage in 2008 so isnt responsible  for that extending beyond       
Mr Ts retirement  age. But Barclays did offer Mr T £200 for the delay in responding to his 
complaint.
Mr T brought  his complaint about  Barclays to this Service.  Our investigator explained that we 
cannot consider  the part of Mr Ts complaint about the valuation because that would have 
been instructed  by the lender, not Barclays. He also explained that, under a self-certified 
mortgage application, Mr T would have needed to state his income  but not provide evidence 
of it. He found that there was no evidence  of what Mr T discussed with Barclays about his 
income, so he couldnt say Barclays  had acted unreasonably.
Mr T disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be referred  to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.  He pointed to various inconsistencies in the 
documentation at the time, particularly around his income, the fact that the secured overdraft 
wasnt fully redeemed and the fact that a life assurance application still hadnt been finalised 
two years later. So, Mr Ts complaint  has been referred to me for a final decision.    
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr Ts complaint is about the actions of Barclays in 1992. At that time the sale of mortgages 
wasnt regulated  to the same standard that it is now. There wasnt  a requirement to record 
fact find discussions or produce  documentation  explaining the reasons for the 
recommendations made by an adviser.  Theres also no requirement for businesses  to keep 
documentation from sales dating back that far. 
In this case, we do have  some documentation from the time of the sale and that allows me to 
have a general idea of what  happened  at the time  as Ive outlined above.  But there isnt 
sufficient evidence to give a clear picture  of all that happened  some  of the evidence is 
contradictory and some is missing. So, in reaching my decision, Ive considered the sale 
generally, rather than focussing on specific questions which I dont think  can be answered, 
Ref: DRN29564173given the evidence available. If I dont mention every  detail Mr T has raised,  that doesnt 
mean I havent thought about it in my overall  consideration  of the sale.
The repayment method
I know that it wasnt clear to Mr T what the actual repayment strategy of the 1992 mortgage  
sale was. I believe that has now been clarified,  but Ill outline  my understanding.  Prior to the 
advice, Mr T had a repayment mortgage and a secured  overdraft totalling  £150,000. The 
Barclays sale proceeded on an interest  only basis. An endowment policy   called a profit 
builder house  purchase  plan  was sold by Barclays, with a sum assured of £76,000  and 
term of 20 years. That means  the endowment was designed to mature in 20 years,  repaying  
at least £76,000  of the outstanding mortgage.
It appears  from the partial mortgage  application, showing that both endowment  and 
pension boxes were  ticked  that the tax-free  cash from Mr Ts existing pension plans was to 
be used to repay the remaining balance  on Mr Ts retirement. While the value of the funds 
from each of these  investment products  at the end of the mortgage  term couldnt be 
guaranteed, this repayment strategy  would have been considered  reasonable at the time of 
the sale. Historic investment returns had led this type of strategy  to be considered reliable.
Mr T has already had a complaint about  the sale of his endowment  policy upheld, by the 
endowment provider. Mr T received approximately £4,000 to compensate him for the mis-
sale, following the providers investigation and calculation. That means I cant consider that 
part of his complaint against  Barclays. I would add that just because the complaint about  the 
sale of the endowment policy was upheld, it doesnt mean  the overall mortgage was 
unsuitable.
With regard to the pension element of the apparent repayment strategy used in the 1992 
sale, Ive seen evidence  from both pension providers that the respective plans started some 
years before the 1992 advice and were never linked to a mortgage. So, Im satisfied that 
Barclays didnt sell the pension plans as part of the 1992 advice and Ive not seen any 
evidence that Barclays sold the plans previously. That means while I do think  Barclays 
included the pension plans as part of the overall repayment strategy, I dont think Barclays  
can be held responsible for their sale.
The valuation of the property
When assessing an application for a mortgage, a lender  will want to know  that the property 
being mortgaged  is adequate security  for its loan.  That means  it needs  to be satisfied  that, 
should the borrower default on the loan, the sale of the property will yield sufficient funds  to 
repay the amount outstanding on the mortgage. To satisfy itself of this, it instructs  a surveyor  
to conduct a mortgage valuation. Its the surveyor whos  responsible for assessing the value 
and reporting  this to the lender.
I know that Mr T feels strongly that, in this case, Barclays instructed the surveyor. But 
Barclays wasnt the lender and it was in the lenders interest to ensure that the property was 
adequate security for the mortgage.  Based on what  Ive seen and my knowledge of the 
process, I think  its unlikely Barclays did instruct the surveyor. However, even if it was 
Barclays that instructed  the surveyor, it would be for the surveyor to conduct the required 
assessment of the value. So, in any event, I dont  think  Barclays was responsible  for the 
outcome of the survey.
Ref: DRN29564174While I havent considered whether the mortgage valuation  was correct or not, I would also 
point out, that Mr Ts belief that this led to negative equity is incorrect. If Mr Ts property was 
worth less than £150,000,  he was already in negative equity because  the original  mortgage  
and the overdraft were  both secured  on that property. 
Affordability
The copy  we have  of the mortgage  application  is incomplete. There  is confirmation  that the 
application was made on a self-certified  income  basis and this is supported by the fact that 
the self-employed income part of the application  is crossed through.  But I havent seen that 
Mr T did self-certify  as Ive seen no declaration containing his signature. So, I think  it is 
possible that he didnt  self-certify his income  at £50,000 per annum.
Self-certified mortgage applications were used where a borrowers income may not be 
wholly provable for one or a number of reasons. Mr T was a self-employed  builder at the 
time of the advice.  But he also says he had assets  including  a terraced house, two 
unfinished semi-detached houses and a builders yard. I think its likely that he earned,  or 
would expect to earn money from one or more of those assets. The full extent of that, along 
with his self-employed income, may not have  been provable. So, I think Mr T does fit the 
profile of someone  likely to require  a self-certified income mortgage application.
Aside from Mr Ts assertions  that he only earned around £15,000 per annum, I have  no way 
of assessing what he earned. There is an indication that the arrangement didnt turn out to 
be affordable as he didnt maintain his endowment policy.  But that doesnt necessarily mean 
that was as a result  of unsuitable  advice  by the broker. Mr T has also complained that he 
wasnt loaned enough money to cover  the outstanding secured overdraft. Hes said that the 
interest on that was very high at the time. Hes also said that he had to sell property to pay 
off the remaining overdraft, but it doesnt appear that any equity gained  from the sale was 
sufficient to reduce  his mortgage balance.
Its worth  noting here that I think the issue  of affordability dictated  the repayment  strategy  to 
some extent. I think its likely that the sum assured of the endowment  policy was limited  to 
the level of premium that was deemed  affordable at the time  using  the projected tax-free 
cash from existing pension plans  would have meant no additional expense.  That said, I do 
accept Mr Ts point  about the additional cost of the endowment policy due to a medical 
rating. But, as Ive already explained, the endowment provider has already settled the 
complaint about  the mis-sale of that policy. I also think  though I cant know  that the life 
assurance application that still hadnt been  finalised in 1994, is likely to have been  a 
replacement for the life cover Mr T lost when  the endowment policy lapsed.
In summary
Having carefully considered all the evidence that is available on Mr Ts complaint, there  are 
still gaps, contradictions and unanswered questions. I cant know from the evidence 
available what conversations took place  between Mr T and Barclays. But I know,  that Mr T 
did have an expensive debt in the form of a secured overdraft. I dont know whether he 
wanted to repay this to save money  or because Barclays   also the overdraft provider  was 
putting pressure  on him to do so. Either way, the mortgage sold by Barclays was a partial 
solution to Mr Ts existing problem, so I dont think it was unsuitable.
When we consider complaints, it isnt our role to punish businesses. Instead, where we find 
that a business should  have acted differently, we ask the business to put the consumer back  
Ref: DRN29564175in the position he would  have been in if it had. So, even  if the gaps and contradictions  in the 
evidence did show wrong doing by Barclays  and I dont think  they necessarily do  I dont 
think the advice  left Mr T in a worse position  than if he hadnt taken it. I say that because his 
overdraft was very expensive and it doesnt  appear that he had the means  to fully repay it 
another way. And, based on everything  both parties have told us, I dont think a repayment 
mortgage for the full amount would have been  more affordable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about Barclays Bank  UK PLC.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2021. 
Gavin Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2956417