K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
April 2002. Mrs S says Tesco Personal  Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Mrs S bought the policy in April 2002  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  The sale 
took place by way of a postal application.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs S case.
I dont think the policy  was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs S says she wasnt given an option of having  the credit  card without the PPI. She says 
that had she been given  a choice, she wouldnt have agreed to it. So, Ive thought about 
what shes said alongside the additional information Ive seen  from Tesco.
Tesco has provided  us with a copy of Mrs S credit agreement. This shows Mrs S was given 
the option of adding the PPI to her account. Under  the section Cardholder Payment  
Protection Mrs S was asked to tick a box if she wanted the PPI. Looking  at Mrs S credit 
agreement, I can see the box was ticked. 
Ive also noted  that under  the same section on the application form, Mrs S had the option  of 
selecting whether  or not she wanted Card Protection. Mrs S didnt select  this product, so I 
think she would have  known she had a choice about  taking out either product. Overall, I 
think its more likely  than not Mrs S would have understood  the PPI was optional. And I dont 
think she would have  selected the PPI if she didnt want to take it out.
Tesco didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been  particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But Mrs S chose to take out the PPI, 
so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time it doesnt look like she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover,  such as pre-existing medical  conditions  so it would have  been  useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mrs S has told us she didnt need PPI as she would have received at least three months  sick 
pay from her employer  if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us she could have 
relied on friends and family to help her with her repayments.
Ref: DRN28569852Using what we know about Mrs S profession, her employer and the length  of time she was 
employed, I think its likely Mrs S would have been  entitled to more  sick pay than shes  told 
us. Having thought about the sick pay Mrs S was likely to receive from her employer, I dont 
think this means she wouldnt have found  the policy useful. I say this because  the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to any sick pay Mrs S would have received from her employer and 
would have paid out for longer. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mrs S was ever 
made redundant.
Ive also thought about what  Mrs S has said about  the fact that she could have  relied on her 
friends and family to help her with her repayments.  Again,  I dont think this meant that the 
PPI wasnt useful for her. While Mrs S friends and family would want  to help, their financial 
situation could  change and so this help couldnt  always be relied on.
So overall, I think Mrs S could have found  the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and
I dont think that any better  information  would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Which  means  Tesco 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because: 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because  Tesco didnt tell Mrs S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs S the difference  between 
what Mrs S owes and what she would have owed if the commission  and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco should also pay Mrs S 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off their credit  card at some  point. Once Tesco  has calculated the amount 
due to Mrs S, it can use this to reduce the amount she hasnt fully repaid  on her credit  card.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs S can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN28569853my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs S any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2856985