K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them three payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.  
background
This complaint is about three mortgage  PPI policies:
The first was taken  out in 2000  when Mr and Mrs H applied for a mortgage using a 
broker. The policy  was in their joint names  with the benefit being  split equally between 
them and covered them for accident and sickness.
The second was taken out in 2005 in Mr and Mrs Hs joint names, but cancelled the 
same day.
The third was taken  out during a phone call in 2008. This was in Mr Hs name  only and 
covered him for unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs H didnt 
agree saying, in summary, that:
The PPI polices werent appropriate for their circumstances and they werent told the 
policies were optional.
The policy taken out in 2000 was sold by a broker who made  it clear  they should  take 
out the cover if they wanted  their mortgage application to be successful. They  were  told 
Nationwide looked  favourably  on applications  where  protection  was in place.
The 2008 policy was mis-sold because Nationwide  didnt correctly  assess if they needed 
the policy. It didnt take into account that they had savings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
2000 sale
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs H. So the key question I need  to consider is did Nationwide  give Mr and Mrs H 
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading in order to put them  in a position where 
they could make an informed choice about  the insurance  they were  buying?
And, if there  was a problem with the way the policy  was sold,  then I need to consider 
whether Mr and Mrs H are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something 
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been  any problems with the 
sale?
Ref: DRN25254762Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the 2000 sale for the following 
reasons:
Overall, I think Nationwide made Mr and Mrs H aware that PPI was optional  and they chose 
to take it out. I say this because the mortgage application included a separate  section 
headed Your mortgage  payment protection requirements and there were equally clear 
options to accept or decline  the PPI. Mr and Mrs H ticked  the Yes  box and signed, 
separately from the mortgage application, to confirm that they wanted this cover.  Nationwide  
then sent them a separate PPI application form to complete. 
Mr and Mrs H told us the policy was recommended  to them  by a broker  who is no longer  
trading. I cant hold Nationwide responsible for anything the broker  did or didnt do. And 
theres no evidence  to suggest  that Nationwide was more likely to accept their mortgage 
application if they took the PPI.
Its possible the information the society gave  Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it should have  been. But I dont think they would have been put off taking out the policy  if 
they had received better information.  I say this because:
Mr and Mrs H were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the terms and 
conditions.
They  werent  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits  such  as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
they couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they needed 
better information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Mr and Mrs H cant recall exactly how much sick pay they wouldve received from their 
employers, although  they know they wouldve at least  received statutory sick pay and 
they told us they had some  savings. But Nationwide didnt advise Mr and Mrs H to take 
out the policy  so it didnt have  to check if it was suitable  for them.  The policy  wouldve  
paid out in addition to any sick pay theyd  received  and I think its likely that, despite 
what they now recall,  they wanted  some additional cover  if they couldnt  work  bearing 
in mind the mortgage  was a major long term financial  commitment and that their home 
was at risk if they couldnt meet the repayments.
Its not clear whether  the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs H 
before they agreed  to purchase it. I dont think they were  told it would  cost around £12 
each month until after theyd  applied for it. For this reason  I have  considered whether 
clearer information about  the cost would have affected their decision to purchase the 
policy. They chose to take out the policy knowing they would have to pay something for 
it. The policy was competitively priced  and a relatively small cost in relation to their 
mortgage. So I think it unlikely  they would have  made a different decision if better 
information about  the cost had been  provided.
2005 sale
As noted above,  Mr and Mrs H cancelled this policy on the same  day it started, so they didnt 
pay any premiums.  So, even if the policy was mis-sold, theres  been  no financial loss. So 
I dont need to consider the circumstances  surrounding this sale.
Ref: DRN252547632008 sale
In 2008, Mr and Mrs H took out a policy in Mr Hs name only during a phone call.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the 2008 sale for the following 
reasons:
This application wasnt at the same time as any mortgage application, so Mr and Mrs H 
knew they didnt  have to have the policy. Overall, I think  they knew it was optional and chose 
to take it out.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy but  as with the policy taken in 2000  it needed  to 
ensure it gave Mr and Mrs H enough information so that they could decide for themselves 
whether to take it. 
Its possible the information the society gave  Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it should have  been. But I dont think they would have been put off taking out the policy  if 
they had received better information.  I say this because:
Mr H was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances  and the terms and conditions.
As noted earlier, the mortgage was a long term financial commitment  and 
Mr and Mrs Hs home  was at risk if they didnt keep  up with the repayments. In 2008, 
Mrs H was on a career break to bring  up her family and they were reliant on Mr Hs 
income to meet  the mortgage payments. So it seems  they decided  they wanted  some 
cover should Mr H become unemployed.
Mr H had been  diagnosed with a medical condition in 2005 and he wouldnt  have  been  
able to make a successful claim if he couldnt work  due to this condition,  or something 
related to it. Its likely  that he chose  to take out unemployment cover  only because  he 
was aware of the pre-existing  medical  condition exclusion.
He wasnt affected by any of the other  conditions limiting the policys  main  benefits such  
as those affecting  self-employed people. As he couldve  benefitted from the full extent of 
the cover I think it unlikely he needed  better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
I cant  be sure that the cost of the policy was made  clear  before they agreed to purchase 
it. But, having had a policy before, they knew theyd  have to pay something for it. I think 
if theyd known the policy would cost £56.57 each  month theyd  have been  unlikely  to 
make a different decision.
For both the 2000 and 2008 sales, its possible the information the society  gave 
Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont  think Mr and Mrs H would  have made a different decision about  taking  out 
the policies if better  information had been provided to them  overall, I think they would still 
have taken out the policies.
Ref: DRN25254764But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI taken out in 2000 to Mr and Mrs H 
because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Nationwide does  have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission  and profit  share it 
got in 2000 that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2525476