K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Santander UK Plc withdrew its mortgage offer after the bank 
learned that the property Mr and Mrs S was buying  did not meet  its lending  criteria. They are 
asking Santander  to reimburse the £365 valuation  fee and the early repayment charge 
(ERC) they had to pay when they went to another lender.
background
Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage with Santander. They wanted to move house  and port their 
existing Santander  mortgage onto the new property so that they could keep the fixed  rate 
they were on, which expired on 2 June  2020.  The mortgage was subject to an ERC  if it was 
repaid before 2 June 2020.
Mr and Mrs S found a property on a new development and applied  to port their mortgage. 
They paid a valuation fee of £365  and, following the valuation, a mortgage offer was issued. 
But the surveyor then discovered that the property had an age restriction for the over-55s. 
After reporting  this to Santander, a decision was made to withdraw the mortgage  offer 
because Santander  doesnt lend on properties where there are age restrictions.
Mr and Mrs S complained. They say they were never asked if there was an age restriction 
and had no idea it would  be an issue. They argue  that Santander should have asked about 
this, but because it didnt, Mr and Mrs S dont see why they should be out of pocket.
Mr and Mrs S also say that they have been told by a financial adviser that Santander  doesnt  
charge valuation fees, and so they are unhappy  that they paid £365 for a valuation  on the 
property.
Santander didnt  uphold the complaint, so Mr and Mrs S brought  it to us, where  an 
investigator looked at it. He didnt think Santander  had done  anything wrong; Mr and Mrs S 
have asked for an ombudsman to review the investigators findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same reasons.
Santander is entitled to set the criteria upon which it is prepared  to lend money. One of these 
is that it does not lend on properties where  there  is an age restriction  for the occupiers. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs S didnt realise  this would be significant, and so didnt mention it. It 
wasnt until after the mortgage offer had been  issued that the surveyor  was notified about the 
age restriction. 
So although  it wasnt Mr and Mrs Ss fault, it wasnt Santanders either. Ive looked  at the 
details of the development and it is not apparent that this is a retirement  community.  So Im 
satisfied that this isnt something Id have expected the surveyor  to have picked up when he 
visited the property,  as it looks like a new-build housing estate. But given that the property 
didnt meet Santanders criteria, Im satisfied the bank was entitled  to decline to lend on it.
Mr and Mrs S say that theyve been  advised by a financial  adviser  that Santander doesnt 
charge valuation fees and so they argue  that they shouldnt have had to pay £365. But Im 
Ref: DRN21345702afraid that advice is incorrect. Santanders  tariff of charges shows that for a purchase price  
of up to £300,000, a valuation of £365 is payable.  Im satisfied this isnt refundable; its part 
of the assessment to determine whether or not the property is suitable  security for the loan. 
The valuation was carried  out and so Im satisfied that Santander is under no obligation  to 
refund the fee.
As far as the ERC is concerned,  there  is no basis upon which it would be fair or reasonable 
to order Santander  to reimburse  this. If Santander had known at application stage that the 
property didnt meet its lending  criteria,  Mr and Mrs S would still have had to go to another  
lender and pay the ERC. So there is no financial loss to them in having had to pay the ERC, 
because its an expense  they will always have incurred on this purchase.
In the circumstances, taking everything into account, Im unable to find that Santander  has 
done anything  wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2134570