K820x#14The complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
during a telephone call in 2003. Miss W says Barclays Bank  Plc (trading as Barclaycard) 
mis-sold her the PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ws case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Barclays shouldve made Miss W aware the PPI was optional.  
Barclays has explained that the policy was added to Miss Ws card during a telephone call a 
few years after she applied for her credit card. There is limited information  available from the 
time this policy was sold, but from what I have seen, and knowing that this policy was added 
to the card after it was applied  for, I dont have  enough to say Barclays didnt make it clear 
the policy was optional, or that Miss W didnt choose  to have it.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Miss W. If this is the case  it had to check that the 
PPI was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  
that it was. For example,  she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover.
Miss W says she got six months full and six months  half sick pay benefits from her 
employer. The PPI wouldve paid out alongside  these benefits as well as covering her if she 
became unemployed. Miss W says she had some  savings, but by having the policy  this 
would have meant she could have used  her savings for other costs if she found herself 
unable to work due to illness or unemployment.  So, I dont think  Barclays was wrong  to 
recommend the PPI to her.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
Overall, I dont  think Miss W has missed out from anything Barclays  might have done wrong. 
So, it doesnt have  to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Miss W. 
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss W because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss W about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Miss 
W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN21104072My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss W.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss W any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2110407