K822xComplaint
Mr D complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc will not refund disputed  transactions  
which he didnt make. He also complains that they are holding him liable for loans 
fraudulently taken out in his name. He wants the transactions refunded.  And the loans 
cancelled.
Background 
In July 2018 and December 2018 Mr D guaranteed loans taken out by his flatmates as they 
needed money to pay the rent. 
Mr D decided to apply  to NatWest for a consolidation  loan to repay  the loans hed 
guaranteed. NatWest declined the loan application  on 13 March 2019. 
Mr D was introduced by his flatmates to someone  who I will refer to as X, who would help 
him get the loan from NatWest. Mr D gave X his phone, NatWest bank card and PIN, online 
banking log in, as well as his account number  and sort code for another  account  with a bank 
I will refer to as Bank Y. He also provided X with his passport and proof  of address.
On 3 April 2019  a successful loan application was made, and £18,500 funds were paid into 
Mr Ds NatWest current account.
Two on line banking  payments  of £5,000 and £4,900 were  made  from his account on 
6 April 2019.
A second loan application  for £6,500 was made on the 9 April 2019. The funds  credited  
Mr Ds account on 16 April 2019.
On 10 April 2019 an online payment for £4,800 was made, this was queried by NatWest  who 
sent a text to Mr Ds phone asking him to confirm  if he made the transfer.
Someone contacted the bank to query the message but didnt pass  the banks verification. 
NatWest asked that Mr D attend the branch with his ID documents  so the payment could be 
authorised.
Mr D attended the NatWest branch with his documents and confirmed he wanted to 
authorise the payment of £4,800 into his account with bank  Y. 
Mr D has told us that he attended the branch with X, so couldnt tell the branch staff he was 
being defrauded by X, he said he feared for his safety.
Mr D said X asked him to transfer £2,400 from his bank Y account to cover  Xs fees for 
helping Mr D with the loan application.
Mr D got in touch with the police and bank Y to raise a fraud  claim.  Bank  Y managed to 
recover £539 from Xs account. 
Mr D has said he has £2,942 left from the £4,800 in his Bank  Y account.
NatWests records show that around  12 April 2019,  Mr D told them a third party  had 
fraudulently applied for a loan in his name  and he wanted the bank to cancel  it. He had 
Ref: DRN21191682received text messages to his phone  about a £6,500 loan he didnt apply for. NatWest  didnt 
cancel this loan and the £6,500 was credited to Mr Ds current account  on 16 April 2019. 
NatWest said the application  had already been  completed by the time Mr D notified the 
bank.
On 17 April 2019, NatWest decided to end their banking arrangements  with Mr D, so they 
wrote to give him immediate notice  of their decision to close  his accounts. Their  letter  said 
Mr D was still liable for any borrowing that remained with the bank  and he was liable for 
making the agreed payments for the full period of the borrowing as stipulated in the terms 
and conditions of his loan agreement.
Mr D declared  himself  bankrupt  on 29 April 2019 and contacted our service on 08 May 2019.  
Following Mr Ds complaint, NatWest didnt agree that they had made an error  in dealing 
with Mr Ds concerns.
Following Mr Ds bankruptcy NatWest have  held him liable for the sum of £25,863.79
(including the disputed loans of £18,500  and £6,500 and his existing loan of £863.77)
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She said that Mr D should be held liable 
for the first loan as he voluntarily gave  X his information to get Xs help in applying for the 
loan. However, she said he shouldnt be held liable for the £6,500  loan as Mr D had told 
NatWest he wanted  the loan cancelled.
She didnt  think Mr D should be refunded the disputed transactions  as he had given X all his 
security credentials. She also thought he had authorised  the payment of £4,800.
Because she thought NatWest should have done  more to cancel the second loan or offset 
the debt by using the credit balance in his current account, she thought Mr D should get 
£100 for the trouble and upset this caused  him. And NatWest should recalculate Mr Ds 
liability to the bank by offsetting the credit  in his account.
Mr D was unhappy with the view he said he didnt feel he should be held liable for the first 
loan because he was a victim of fraud.  
As there was no agreement the matter has come  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have reached the same  
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons.
The loan applications
Generally, NatWest can hold Mr D liable for the debt if he applied for the loan himself or 
authorised someone  else to do it on his behalf.
So, I need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more  likely than not Mr D 
applied for the loans  or consented for the applications to be made  and should  therefore be 
held liable  for the debt.
Ref: DRN21191683Mr D originally applied to the bank for a loan and this was declined. 
Mr Ds second loan application was approved, and he was given a loan of £18,500. Mr D 
has told us that the application was made by X using all the information provided  by Mr D. In 
order for me to decide that Mr D hadnt consented to that loan application I would have  to 
think it was more likely than not Mr D was forced into making the application,  so that he 
didnt actually consent to it.
Having looked  at the evidence I cant say that Mr D was forced into applying  for this loan. I 
think Mr D wanted the loan and was happy  to go along with X. I have considered that Mr D 
wasnt being chased for payment as the guarantor to his friends  loans. I accept he has said 
he was worried his friends would default  on the loans and he would be liable. But I think  it 
unusual that he would  take preventative action and take out a loan to pay back his friends 
loans when he wasnt yet required to do so. I therefore think Mr D should be held liable  for 
the first loan of £18,500.
The evidence suggest that Mr D wasnt present when the second loan for £6,500 was 
applied for. I dont think Mr D knew that a second  loan would be applied for. Mr D has said 
that he told NatWest the loan had been fraudulently applied for and he wanted  it cancelled. I 
think the evidence  suggests Mr D didnt consent  to this loan and I dont think he should be 
held liable  for it.
I have seen evidence  that Mr D asked NatWest to cancel the loan for £6,500  on 
12 April 2019. I am aware that despite Mr D asking NatWest to cancel the loan they didnt do 
so. NatWest knew by 12 April 2019  that Mr D wanted the loan to be cancelled. I think  
NatWest could have  done more especially since the terms and conditions have a 14-day 
cancellation period. Our investigator  suggested Mr D should receive £100 trouble and upset 
for the way NatWest  handled this and I agree  with her.
The Disputed transactions
Mr D has said he should be refunded for the disputed transactions that were carried  out on 
his account. In order for me to decide  this I need to look at whether the transactions  were 
authorised. In this case Mr D has told us that he provided X with his card and PIN as well as 
other information which would have been  needed  to carry  out the payments. I am satisfied 
that looking at the technical evidence and Mr Ds evidence  the payments were  
authenticated. I therefore need to consider if the payments were  authorised.
A payment out of someones account can only be treated  as authorised  if the payer has 
consented to it. So, the customer must have consented to a payment  transaction  taking 
place. So, Ive gone on to consider here whether  I think  Mr D consented to the payments 
and therefore  whether  they were authorised or not.
I have considered whether Mr D consented to the payments being made. In respect of the 
payments of £5,000 and £4,900, I dont know what arrangement he came to with X when he 
went to Xs office. But, from what hes said to us I am willing  to accept that he didnt consent 
to the payments being made. 
However, Mr D did hand  over his card and PIN and his phone  to X. I think Mr D failed  with 
intent to comply with his obligations as a payment services user and by handing over all the 
information has allowed  the disputed transactions to take place.  I therefore  think Mr D should 
be held liable for the first two disputed transactions. 
Ref: DRN21191684A third payment for £4,800 was made. This payment was pending authorisation and required 
Mr D to attend the branch with ID to authorise the transaction. Mr D went into branch with X 
to authorise the payment of £4,800. So, I think he should be held liable for this payment.
I have considered that Mr D has said he was a victim of a scam and feared for his safety. I 
accept that Mr D was treated badly by his friends and X. However, Mr D was trying to get a 
loan from the bank when he had already been declined  for a loan and he voluntarily 
attended Xs offices to do so. I have also considered that as Mr D has declared himself  
bankrupt these  loans  have been  written  off.
In summary  I think Mr D should be held liable for the first loan of £18,500 but not for the 
second loan of £6,500  as Im satisfied  he consented  to the first application but not the 
second.
In respect of the disputed transactions, I am satisfied Mr D authorised  the transaction  for 
£4,800 so he should be held liable for that payment. I am also satisfied Mr D didnt authorise 
the transactions for £5,000 or for £4.900, however as he failed with intent to keep his details 
secure and thereby facilitated the disputed transactions  from taking  place, NatWest  is 
entitled to hold him liable for the transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is I partially uphold the complaint.  I require National Westminster  Bank  Plc 
to: 
Cancel the £6,500  loan and any charges incurred  from 12 April 2019, the date Mr D 
notified the bank that he wanted  to cancel  the loan and correct  his credit file to reflect 
this.
Pay £100 compensation for his material distress.
Recalculate Mr Ds liability by offsetting the credit balance  in his account  against his 
overall debt. Although  his debt has been written off by the bank this recalculation 
may affect Mr Ds bankruptcy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2119168