K820x#14Complaint
Ms M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, wont refund a 
transaction, which she said she didnt make.
Background
While on holiday  abroad, Ms M visited a mobile  phone shop. She bought a mobile phone  
and a power case and she paid for the phone to be unlocked. The total came to $425.37. 
She paid with her credit  card.
When Ms M received her credit card statement,  she saw a second payment to the same 
shop for $360.06,  made within two minutes of the first purchase.  She contacted Halifax,  
saying she hadnt  made the second  payment and it was fraudulent.  She asked for a refund.
Halifax contacted  the merchant under its chargeback  policy.  The merchant  provided  two 
sales vouchers. The first voucher related to the genuine purchase of the mobile phone, 
power case and unlocking service. The second  voucher related to a payment for a set of 
headphones. 
Halifax decided not to refund Ms M. It said the merchant had successfully defended the 
chargeback request by providing  copies  of the sales vouchers. It is treating Ms M as having 
authorised the second payment because her card and PIN were used to make  it.
As Ms M didnt  agree with Halifaxs decision, she asked this service to investigate. 
Ms M said she didnt buy a set of headphones,  or any other  items, apart from the mobile 
phone and charger.  She said her card didnt work the first time she tried using it. So, the 
sales assistant took her card and entered the details manually. He then asked her to enter  
her PIN and the payment  went  through successfully.
Ms M said she was the only customer in the shop and there  were  two sales  assistants.
She said she had her card with her at all times, except  when  the sales  assistant took it from 
her. She didnt  keep a written  note of her PIN or disclose  it to anyone else. She thinks the 
sales assistant made  the disputed  payment.
Our investigator looked into her case and decided not to uphold  it. He didnt consider that the 
second payment  was fraudulent because:
each payment was made by chip and PIN and only Ms M knew  the PIN to her card
the merchant  provided an itemised a sales voucher for each payment
the timings and information on the sales vouchers corresponded exactly  with the 
timings and information in the electronic audit report from Halifax.
Ref: DRN20262002He concluded  that it was more likely  than not that Ms M had authorised  the disputed 
payment.
Ms M disagreed with the investigators view. She has asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the relevant regulations, facts, the 
transactions and the evidence. Both Ms M and Halifax have read the investigators view, so I 
wont repeat  every detail  here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I 
can assure Ms M that Ive read the file, including her comments on the view.
In short,  Halifax is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). Ms M says she didnt make the payment of $360.06 and is seeking a refund of that 
amount. So my primary concern is to come  to a view about whether or not I think  Ms M 
authorised the payment.
Having reviewed the technical report from Halifax, Im satisfied that Ms Ms genuine card and 
PIN were used for both the genuine payment and the disputed payment. The report shows 
that the card machine read the chip in her card for each payment. The means  her actual  
card must have been inserted  into the card machine,  twice.  The report  also indicates  that her 
PIN was entered for each payment. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own,  enough to enable  Halifax 
to hold her liable. So, I need  to think about  whether the evidence  suggests that its more 
likely than not that Ms M authorised the disputed payment. 
The only other person,  who couldve made the disputed payment, is the sales assistant  who 
served her. There was no one else with the opportunity in the short  space of time available. 
Its possible the sales assistant observed  her entering her PIN and then covertly  put through  
the disputed second payment. So, Ive considered the circumstances in the shop, as 
described by Ms M. 
She told us that when  she went to pay for the mobile  phone,  her card didnt work. She said 
the assistant told her its not gone  through. She cant remember  if shed entered  her PIN by 
then. She said the assistant asked for her card and he entered the details manually in the 
till. He then asked  her to enter her PIN. Ms M said she couldnt remember  if she entered  her 
PIN twice, but, if she did, then it wouldve been  because the first attempt had not gone 
through.  
Ref: DRN20262003Im afraid the banks  technical report tells a different story. There  are no recorded  errors in 
the report. The report also shows that both payments were  authenticated  by chip and PIN, 
not by other data being keyed in manually.  And, the fact the chip was read tells me the card 
was inserted into the machine, twice.  This is inconsistent with the sales assistant entering 
details manually.
I have taken into account Ms M's comment that she wouldnt make two payments, if she 
genuinely bought the headphones. I agree that this seems unusual.  But Im afraid I have to 
weigh Ms Ms version of events against the banks technical report and Im afraid there  are 
inconsistencies. I appreciate that Ms M might have forgotten  precisely what  happened and 
thats not surprising given  the passage of time. However, the technical  evidence is clear that 
the card details were  not keyed in manually, as she describes,  and there were no errors.
I have also noted  that the merchant provided sales  vouchers with timings,  which  correspond 
exactly with the timings on the banks electronic reports.
Based on the available evidence, I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax to conclude  that 
Ms M authorised the transactions. 
I am sorry  for sending  disappointing news, especially after a long wait, but I hope the 
reasons for my decision are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2026200