K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about two payday loans Uncle Buck provided to Mrs H in December 2015. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  Mrs H disagreed and the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much  information  it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the consumers income  was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable  and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect a lender  to be able to show that it hasnt continued to provide these loans to a 
customer irresponsibly. 
Uncle Buck  says it agreed to Mrs Hs application  after shed provided details of her monthly  
income and expenditure. It says the information Mrs H provided showed that shed be able 
to comfortably make the repayments she was committing to as and when they fell due. And 
in these circumstances it wasnt  irresponsible to lend. 
The first thing for me to say is that the information provided does suggest that Mrs H was 
asked to provide  details  of her income  and expenditure. 
Uncle Buck  has also said that it carried out a limited credit check before giving this loan.  I 
think it would  be helpful for me to explain that the amount of information a lender  receives  
when carrying out a credit check on a potential borrower isnt the same  as a consumer  
receives should they request this information  themselves. So while Ive looked at the credit  
report Mrs H provided,  I havent seen anything to suggest there  was anything in the 
information Uncle Buck had at the time that warranted  further  investigation. 
I accept that Mrs Hs actual circumstances werent  reflected either in the information she 
provided, or the other  information Uncle Buck obtained. And Mrs Hs actual financial position  
Ref: DRN22021532might well have been apparent  if further information  such  as bank statements  had been 
obtained. 
But Uncle Buck could only make its decision based  on the information it had available  at the 
time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mrs H, I dont think  it had 
reached the stage  where there  was a greater risk of the loan being unsustainable for Mrs H. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Uncle Buck needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where  I can safely say that a lender has done  
something wrong. And, in this case, I think that Uncle Buck  carried out reasonable checks  
even though its look like the information it mightve been provided wasnt reflective of       
Mrs Hs actual financial position. 
Uncle Buck  relied  on the information  it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved, together with Mrs Hs declared income and Mrs H only taking a couple 
of loans, I think that this wasnt  unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mrs Hs 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mrs H. But I hope that shell at least 
feel his concerns have  been listened  to.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2202153