K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited was irresponsible when it opened a credit card 
account for him and then increased  the credit  limit.
background
Mr S opened  a credit card account with Vanquis  in March 2011. It then increased  the limit 
even though he says hed missed  many monthly  payments. He thinks  if itd done the proper 
credit checks at the time it wouldve seen the numerous payday loans hed had. And it 
wouldve seen his gambling transactions. Hes says hes now in a debt spiral.
The adjudicator explained this Service couldnt look into his complaint about when he 
opened his card account because that was more  than six years ago. But she said she could 
look at the circumstances around  when Vanquis increased his credit  limit at the end of 2012. 
When she did that she didnt think Vanquis  had done anything wrong. Although  Mr S had 
occasionally gone  over his credit  limit it wasnt by an excessive amount. He was making  his 
monthly payments  on time and often  he paid more than the minimum required. And there  
werent any gambling transactions in the months  before the credit limit increase. She 
couldnt see any adverse information  that wouldve been available  to Vanquis  when it 
undertook its credit  checks.  And any payday lending seemed to be after Vanquis had offered 
him the increase.
Mr S didnt agree with this. He said Vanquis  didnt take all factors into account  when it 
increased his credit  limit. He had payday  loans  he was struggling with. And he kept going 
over the original limit Vanquis had set.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons.  
The adjudicator was right when  she said we couldnt  look at Mr Ss complaint about Vanquis  
opening his credit card account in 2011.  We have to follow  rules  which  have been  set by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. Those rules mean we cant consider complaints that are made 
more than six years after the date of the event  complained about.  And we cant consider the 
complaint if its made more than three years after the date on which  Mr S realised (or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware) there was a problem so he had cause  for complaint. 
People are generally aware they can complain  about goods or services  when things  go 
wrong. So I think that by the time Vanquis froze the charges  and interest towards the end of 
2013 Mr S shouldve reasonably been  aware there  was a problem  and that he had cause to 
complain. So according to our rules, hes out of time.
I can consider complaints  outside those time limits if there are any exceptional 
circumstances. The test for exceptional circumstances means  I have to be satisfied there are 
circumstances which prevented Mr S from making  a complaint in time.  And I dont have 
sufficient evidence to make that finding.
But Vanquis increased Mr Ss credit  limit towards  the end of 2012 and Im satisfied thats 
within the six year time limit so we can look at whether Vanquis was irresponsible  to do this.
Ref: DRN27075212Irresponsible lending  is not just about whether  Mr S could afford to repay the credit  or not  
its whether theres  another reason  he shouldnt  have had the credit.  This will depend on his 
personal circumstances. And it could  be irresponsible to lend money to someone who is in a 
debt spiral because  they are borrowing  money  to repay other  loans. 
Mr S said Vanquis didnt take all the factors into account. And as the adjudicator explained, 
there is limited information  in the credit record he gave us. But I cant see anything in his 
credit card account history  that wouldve concerned Vanquis. Mr S did go above his credit 
limit a few times. But not by so much  that shouldve  alerted Vanquis  to any financial 
difficulties. Particularly as he often paid more  than the minimum payment. And hes 
confirmed that any gambling transactions were  on his personal bank account. So Im 
satisfied Vanquis carried  out all the checks we would expect and these showed he could 
afford to meet any increased  minimum monthly repayments after the credit limit increase.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with my decision but I dont think  Vanquis  was irresponsible 
when it increased  his credit limit towards  the end of 2012.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2707521