K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains about a whole-of-life policy she took out with Abbey Life Assurance 
Company Limited.  She wasnt told that the benefits of the policy could diminish  over time.  
background
Mrs P took out a whole-of-life  policy with Abbey Life in 1985. She chose  for it to be on a 
maximum cover basis, giving her £100,000 of cover for her premium.  
Her policy was reviewed after the first ten years, and it was found that the premium  was no 
longer enough to support  this level of life cover, and it would need  to be reduced.
Mrs P complained about this in 1997  and was given two other options: 
-to increase her premiums and keep the same level of cover;  or
-to keep the level of cover and premium the same with the value of the policy  being 
used to support  it. The policy would then not last for life, but until the value had been 
used up.
Mrs P chose to pay the same premium for the reduced amount of cover.
Her policy was subject to further reviews in 2000, 2005 and 2015 when the sum assured 
also needed to reduce.
In 2018, Mrs P complained that the policy had been mis-sold to her. She took it out to 
provide her family with a significant lump sum on her death and wanted this to still be the 
case.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mrs Ps complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld.  He 
didnt think Mrs P was misled and thought the policy was suitable for her. 
Mrs P didnt accept the adjudicators findings as she feels she should have compensation for 
the policy being mis-sold  to her. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Mrs P has been  disappointed  that the amount the her policy would pay 
out has gone down significantly over the years, and is now much  less than it was when she 
took it out.
But I find I agree with the adjudicator in that I dont think Abbey Life has mis-led  her. Her 
original sum assured  was guaranteed only for the first ten years the policy  was in place. It 
was then subject  to periodic reviews  to make sure the premium  she was paying was still 
enough to meet that sum assured. These  reviews  form part of the policy conditions.
Ref: DRN28020792Mrs P chose the maximum level of cover  for her premium when it started, and when it was 
first reviewed in 1995 this took into account a number of factors such  as the cost of providing 
life cover;  administrative charges and the performance of this investment. And the review 
then showed that the premium she was paying was no longer enough to maintain that level 
of cover.
Mrs P took out her policy  in 1985, before the Financial Services  Act 1986 came  into force. 
This means  that, at the time, there was no regulatory requirement for a business to give 
advice, or to ensure that a policy was suitable for a customer.  But if a business did give 
advice it had a legal  duty to do so with reasonable skill and care. 
Mrs P has told us that she took out the policy intending on it providing  a lump sum for her 
family on death. And this is the intention  of the whole-of-life  policy. I know  that she feels its 
value had diminished over time. However,  there  was the option to increase the amount of 
monthly premium to a level that would maintain the cover that she initially  had. I can see that 
this option was given to her at the times  her policy review showed this was needed, and 
when she raised  first made her complaint about  this in 1997. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think this whole-of-life policy was mis-sold  to Mrs P.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2802079