K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a mortgage. Mr C says Bradford  & Bingley plc (B&B)  mis-sold this policy to him.
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in April 2019, setting out why I thought  
the complaint  should be upheld.  And I asked both parties to provide any further submissions 
or information to me within one month. 
my findings
Mr C agreed with my findings,  but B&B didnt. So Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence 
and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The crux of this complaint is how the PPI was described in the mortgage application Mr C 
was asked to complete  and sign. In my provisional  decision  I said the section about PPI 
wasnt clear enough.  I said this because the relevant section began by saying SELECT  
Payment Protection  Insurance. It then said Please  tick the box to indicate  the type of cover  
required and it went on to give two different types of PPI. However,  there was no option not 
to have any PPI. So the PPI was, in my view,  portrayed quite strongly as something that was 
required with the mortgage. Much further  down on the form it said that if PPI was not 
required, a cross needed to be placed in both boxes. 
I said in my provisional decision that the assumption  was clearly that the mortgage applicant  
would agree to the PPI because to decline  it, they needed to specifically say so  otherwise 
it would  get added. 
In replying to my provisional  decision, B&B hasnt really said anything  different or provided 
any new information. It has merely repeated that it thought the choice was clear enough. I 
disagree. 
Those selling  these types of policy had a duty to demonstrate that consumers had a choice 
and I dont think B&B did this. Given the other features of the case, which  Ive described  
below, I believe Mr C would have thought the PPI was something  he needed to have. 
He was mis-sold the cover,  so Im therefore  upholding his complaint in full.
what B&B should  do to put matters right 
B&B should  put Mr C in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI. It should:
Pay Mr C the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 15% a year before April 1993 and 8% after that .
Ref: DRN23712372If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, B&B can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  B&B to take off tax from this interest.  It must  give Mr C a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint  and I direct Bradford & Bingley plc to pay the compensation as 
outlined above . 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23712373summary  provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out with a 
mortgage. Mr C says Bradford & Bingley  plc (B&B) mis-sold this policy to him.
background
This PPI policy covered  Mr C in the event of him being unable to work or losing his job.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  B&B agreed 
with this and they said theyd previously written to Mr C telling him this back in 2017.  However due to 
Mr C being ill throughout that period B&B has agreed  that we could look into his complaint even 
though it had issued a final response some time ago.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Im considering upholding  this complaint.
Mr C is represented by a relative who told us Mr Cs understanding of English isnt particularly good.
It seems he took a mortgage  out with B&B in August 1991. Understandably, the records relating to 
this sale are quite patchy,  but B&B says no PPI was being paid after January  1994.  I have a copy of 
the original  mortgage application form where  Mr C was asked about having PPI, so it looks to me as if 
the PPI was added then  and then stopped being paid for around January 1994. So it looks like he 
had the PPI for two and a half years.
B&B says Mr C chose the PPI and it was sold to him properly, but Im afraid I dont agree with this. 
This is because the section  on the mortgage application form about  PPI doesnt appear to me to be 
clear enough.
I say this because the section begins by saying  SELECT Payment  Protection Insurance. It then says 
Please tick the box to indicate the type of cover required  and it goes on to give two different  types of 
PPI. 
There is no option not to have any PPI so I think  the PPI is portrayed quite strongly  as something 
thats required with the mortgage. Much further down  it says that if PPI is not required, a cross needs 
to be placed in both boxes. This confirms to me that the assumption is clearly that the mortgage 
applicant will agree  to the PPI. And to decline  it, the applicant needs to specifically say so  otherwise 
it gets added. 
In short, the PPI gets added unless  its de-selected by the applicant.
Thinking about everything we know about Mr C and what weve been told about this case, I dont think 
he would have understood he had a choice. I dont think the optionality of the PPI was made  clear.
Having decided this, I dont need to go on to consider the other  aspects  of the case. Those selling 
these types of policy  had a duty to be clear about the optional nature of the cover. B&B didnt do this 
and the evidence seems  to strongly  suggest Mr C went on to cancel the policy  probably  because he 
never wanted  it.
I therefore  intend  to uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN2371237