K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Coutts & Company (Coutts) misled him to transfer his Individual  Savings 
Account (ISA) to one of its accounts knowing it did not provide the type of self-select 
execution only service  he required. He has since transferred (out) his ISA from Coutts.  He 
also says that Coutts liquidated his ISA in the transfer process  contrary to his instructions to 
transfer the ISA in specie and leading to the loss of dividend  payments. He seeks  
compensation for this loss and for account charges  he incurred.
background
One of our investigators  first addressed a matter about our jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint. The matter was about  whether (or not) the complaint has been made in time and 
the investigator determined that it has. The investigator proceeded to address the merits of 
the complaint.  She did not consider that the complaint  should  be upheld.  
In the main,  the adjudicator noted that a misunderstanding between  the parties  appeared to 
have taken place,  whereby Coutts  presented a type of self-select  account  service  that was 
limited to selection from five of its funds but this was not what Mr H wanted. She considered  
available documentation  to clarify  the matter further and noted that he had discovered  from 
Coutts website that it did not provide the (unrestricted self-select)  service he wanted but 
proceeded with the transfer regardless. She also noted his assertion that he had been 
induced to do so on the verbal  understanding that Coutts could  deliver the service he 
wanted, but she said there is no available telephone  recording evidence to support this. 
The investigator drew a similar conclusion  with regards to the liquidation matter and said that 
whilst it might not have been  his intention to have the ISA liquidated the transfer form he 
signed gave Coutts express  authority to do so in the course of the transfer.
Mr H disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He made  the 
following key points  (as part of his complaint and in response to the investigators  view):
He has self-managed  share dealing accounts (including ISAs) for over 30 years. In 
September 2017 he met with Coutts  and expressed his wish to transfer  his ISA (in 
specie (investments/assets and cash)) but to retain  the same  unrestricted self-select 
execution only service  he had received  from the transferor firm (the previous 
account). Coutts assured him it could provide such a service.
In October 2017 he received transfer  documentation that referred  to limitation to the 
five managed funds;  he did not want managed funds (or the limitation)  and queried 
this with Coutts; he also re-affirmed his wish to transfer the ISA in specie; he was 
reassured he would get the type of account  he wanted and was encouraged to 
complete and submit  the transfer documentation.
The transfer proceeded,  he then learnt  about  the liquidation and that the account was 
not what he wanted, and he complained to Coutts in November  2017.  Coutts  offered 
to transfer the liquidated  ISA back to his previous  account  but he considered  that an 
insufficient resolution as it did not give him the assets that had been sold.
He does not dispute the website and transfer  form evidence the investigator 
highlighted. With regards to the former,  he verified  what  he read on the website  with 
Coutts and was reassured that it could still provide the account service he wanted; 
with regards to the latter his discussions with Coutts (during  the meeting in 
September and the telephone call in October)  included confirmation that he wanted  a 
transfer in specie so it knew  he did not want the ISA liquidated; and the section of the 
Ref: DRN28118832transfer form that has been cited  has been  misrepresented because  it says 
liquidation will take place  during a transfer  where appropriate  not as standard  
and Coutts knew  it was not appropriate for him.
Coutts continues  to dispute the complaint and, in the main, it relies on documentary 
evidence; it highlights information about  the account  that Mr H was aware of before 
proceeding with the transfer as evidence that he knew what  the account was, chose to 
proceed regardless and holds sole responsibility for that; it makes a similar point about the 
liquidation issue and says Mr Hs signing  and submission of the transfer form meant he 
expressly gave authority  to Coutts to liquidate the ISA; and it says it has shared the relevant 
telephone recordings  it could retrieve and it does not appear possible to retrieve  any more.
The investigator sought further clarification  (and evidence) with regards to what  was 
discussed between  the parties. The matter was assigned to another investigator who 
continued to do the same, it was then assigned to me and I shared the same questions  that 
both investigators had sought  to clarify.  With the second investigators assistance, I 
conveyed the following  to Coutts:
I queried the absence  of telephone  recording evidence for a telephone conversation 
between the parties in October 2017. Three such conversations  happened on the 
same date;  a recording of the first (in which Mr H asked to speak to someone  about 
the transfer form and was put on hold)  has been  disclosed; no recording has been 
disclosed for the second (during which Mr H appears to have discussed the form with 
Coutts); but a recording for the third (which features  a discussion between the parties 
after the form had been completed  and submitted) has been disclosed. 
Given that the second call appears  to be most relevant to the complaint and that it 
was in between  the two calls for which recordings have been disclosed  with all 
three calls happening  on the same  date  I questioned why a recording for the 
second call is not available.
I also gave notice  to Coutts that unless disclosure of the second call provides 
evidence to support  its position or unless  it can refer me to sufficient  evidence  not to 
uphold the complaint,  I was minded to uphold the complaint as I was persuaded by 
available evidence  that Mr H would not have  proceeded with the transfer without  
Coutts giving  him the impression that it could deliver the type of account he wanted.
Coutts was invited to comment on my queries  and preliminary view.
Coutts responded as follows:
It initially queried why I do not consider the written  word and a signed agreement  to 
be suitable evidence.
It then attempted  to find the recording for the second call but confirmed that it could 
not  it said it does not appear  that the second call was recorded.
It repeated the view that I should  give weight to documentary  evidence that is 
available (including the transfer form, the website details about the account and the 
terms and conditions  of the account) and not to hearsay (about what  was or wasnt  
said between the parties).
Documentary evidence shows that Mr H was informed about the account before 
proceeding with the transfer and he instructed  liquidation of the ISA by signing and 
submitting the transfer form. The first investigators view  which  did not uphold  the 
complaint and was based on these elements  was therefore correct. It is plausible  
that Mr H wilfully transferred his ISA to Coutts  on this basis and then chose  to move it 
elsewhere because  he changed his mind.
Ref: DRN28118833my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments  including Coutts  responses to 
my enquiries  in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, I retain  my preliminary view that the complaint  should be upheld  
 and I uphold  the complaint.
In response to Coutts initial comment the second  investigator helpfully explained that this 
service can, within  its inquisitorial remit, consider wider surrounding circumstances in a case  
and that in this respect Mr Hs assertion  of what was discussed with Coutts  could be verified 
by the missing telephone call recording  especially as recordings of the two calls either side 
of it have already  been disclosed. 
I shared the same  rationale when I presented  my queries. Mr H does not dispute what  
Coutts website said or what the transfer form said. He argues that the former was 
overridden by what he discussed with Coutts and that the latters reference to liquidation  of 
assets (where appropriate) should not have applied  to him because of what he discussed 
with Coutts. It follows that what Mr H discussed with Coutts is a relevant part of the 
complaint. In the absence of evidence to clarify  what was discussed, I have considered the 
balance of available evidence. The outcome does not favour Coutts  as it appears to believe 
it should. I note the following:
Coutts has provided a copy of its notes for its meeting with Mr H in September  2017. 
Within the notes, it is recorded  that Mr H had self manged investment portfolios for 
himself and his wife both in the UK and abroad; that he had done so for many  
decades; that the portfolios were held through notable/high level investment firms  (in 
the UK and abroad); and that the portfolios he managed were worth many  millions of 
pounds. This matches Mr Hs description  of the depth of his investment  self-
management experience and his assertion that this is why his specific requirement of 
Coutts was an account that allowed unrestricted self-selecting/management.
Coutts also shared  a copy of a background document  that appears akin to a fact 
find document, which appears  to have been produced before the meeting and in 
which broadly the same  facts  were recorded.  Importantly,  this document  also records 
that Mr H managed his and his wifes  UK investments in order  to generate 
income. This objective is precisely  why Mr H says he made  it clear  to Coutts that he 
wanted the ISA transferred in specie   as the investments within it generated 
required income.
A day after the meeting, Coutts sent a follow-up email to Mr H within which  it said  
I agreed to revert back to you on the query in relation to setting up multiple dealing 
and custody accounts. The good news is that we are able to arrange this for you 
which will allow  you to manage your execution  only holdings  in the way you have 
done previously . [my emphasis]
This matches Mr Hs claim that he made  it clear to Coutts that he wanted the same 
self-management arrangement he had used previously and used in the previous 
account; and that it assured him it could provide that arrangement.
In one of its responses to Mr H (and his complaint) Coutts said as follows  
Ref: DRN28118834During your early discussions  with us, it was clear  that you wished to provide dealing  
instructions yourself  and to monitor the performance  of the investments you had 
chosen.
I am persuaded  that Mr H was very experienced in self-selecting  and self-managing  
investments (high value  investments)  and available evidence, part of which comes 
from Coutts, supports  the conclusion that he had done this broadly consistently for a 
number of decades. In this context, I consider it implausible that he would not have 
known what he wanted from a Coutts  account  and/or he would not have made  clear  
to Coutts what he wanted.  The quotes, above,  from Coutts  arguably concede  its 
awareness  from the September meeting and up to his complaint  that Mr H 
wanted a self-management arrangement that mirrored his previous  experience  and 
the previous account.  Coutts agrees it did not offer such  an account. In 
straightforward terms, it should  have declared  this to Mr H at the outset and 
concluded its engagement with him on this basis. I have not seen evidence that he 
was open to being sold something else. 
Overall and on balance, I consider that Coutts  assured and reassured Mr H that it 
could provide the account service he wanted, irrespective of what  the website  and 
information about terms said. It could not provide that service,  so the account was 
misrepresented to him. It appears  more  likely  (than  not) that he was given 
information, verbally, by Coutts to override what the website and terms said and that 
he relied on that information in good  faith.
I draw a similar conclusion on the ISA liquidation issue.  The form says such 
liquidation would happen where appropriate, and I consider this an important 
qualification. Liquidation was not appropriate  for Mr H and, on balance, Coutts knew 
(or would  have  known) this. It knew he used the investments for required income  it 
recorded this in its background document ahead of the September  meeting. I have 
not seen evidence that Mr H gave Coutts a different or opposite message after the 
meeting. Coutts awareness of this remained relevant in the course  of the transfer  
and, for that reason,  it should not have liquidated  his assets.
redress
Having upheld Mr Hs complaint, my aim is to return him  as fairly as possible  to his pre-
transfer position and to compensate him for not receiving the service he contracted  for. In 
this respect, he claims compensation for lost dividends and for account related fees/charges. 
I conclude that he is entitled to both,  as detailed below. 
I order Coutts to refund  to Mr H any and all of the transfer and account related fees and/or 
charges he incurred in the course  of the transfer of his ISA to Coutts,  during the time of his 
account with Coutts and, ending, in the course  of the transfer  of his ISA away from Coutts. 
Coutts must  also pay him interest on all of the refunds from the date on which  each relevant 
fee and/or  charge was incurred to the date of settlement, at the rate of 8% simple per year.  
This is compensation  to Mr H for not receiving the account service he contracted for and the 
interest payment  is for Mr H being deprived of the money used to meet the fees and/or 
charges. Income  tax could be payable on the interest payment.
I order Coutts to compensate Mr H for any and all of the dividend payments he lost from the 
investments that were  liquidated as part of the transfer. Both parties are ordered  to engage 
Ref: DRN28118835meaningfully in calculating the precise amount that is due in this respect and Mr H must 
cooperate with Coutts in terms of providing  any information, within his possession  or access, 
it needs to conduct the calculation. Both parties  should note that compensation to Mr H for 
this element caters for loss of dividends arising from Coutts liquidation  of his ISA and that 
calculation of the loss should take into account  and stop at the point at which  Mr H either 
mitigated and stopped each loss with the receipt  of dividends from reinvestments   or ought  
reasonably to have  been  in such a position  after transferring the ISA away from Coutts. 
Coutts must  also pay Mr H interest  on each  relevant  lost dividend  payment from the date on 
which he would have  received it to the date of settlement, at the rate of 8% simple per year. 
This is to compensate  Mr H for being deprived  of the use of the dividend  income  he missed 
out on as a result of the liquidation  of his ISA. Income tax could be payable on the interest 
payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I order Coutts  & Company  to pay 
him compensation as detailed above and to provide him with a calculation  of the 
compensation in a clear and simple format.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2811883