K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold a monthly  premium payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy  in April 1996.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
background
Mrs B bought the policy in April 1996  some time after she took out the store card.  The policy  
was taken out to protect her store card repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why below.
Mrs B says the PPI was taken out during  a meeting.  FICL on the other hand says the PPI 
was sold to Mrs B during  a telephone call. Given the PPI wasnt taken out at the same time 
as the store  card and taking  into account  what we know generally about the lenders sales  
practices at the time, I think its most likely  the PPI was sold to Mrs B over the phone.
FICL says Mrs B would have been  given a choice about the PPI. Unfortunately,  FICL  hasnt 
been able to provide a recording of the call in which the sale took place or a copy  of the 
sales script the lender would have used  when selling the PPI to Mrs B. This isnt surprising 
given the sale took place  over 20 years ago. So I dont know  what  was said in the discussion 
between Mrs B and the lender.
So, Ive had to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened at the time 
of sale. It looks like Mrs B initially applied for her store  card without PPI. FICL later phoned 
her to sell her a policy. And following that call, a policy was set up. Mrs B had already had 
use of her card for some time before  the PPI was added to it, so I think  she would have 
known that she didnt have to have  PPI with her card  and I think  she would have realised  
that it had been added to her card. Overall, I dont  think Ive seen  enough in this case to 
make me think its more likely that the policy was added without Mrs Bs agreement. Instead, 
I think its more likely Mrs B agreed to take it out, knowing that she didnt have to.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs B got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Ref: DRN25113992FICL hasnt  been  able to provide us with a copy of the policy wording from 1996, so Ive had 
a look at the policy wording from 1997   which is the closest  copy  FICL has to the time of 
sale. Because of this, I havent seen the policy wording from the time of sale.  But based  on 
the closest copy Ive seen and using what I know about these types of policies generally, I 
think its likely Mrs B would have been  eligible for the cover.  And I cant see she would have 
been affected by any of the main things  the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing 
medical conditions.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mrs B has told us she would have received six months full pay followed by six months  sick 
pay from her employer  if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us that she had some 
savings.
Having thought about what  Mrs B has said about  her sick pay and savings, I dont think  this 
means she wouldnt have  found the policy useful. I say this because  the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs B would have received from her employer and would 
have paid out for longer  than her full pay. The PPI also would  have paid a benefit if Mrs B 
was ever made redundant and would  have enabled her to use her savings for any other 
financial responsibilities she may have had.
So overall, I think Mrs B could have found  the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and
I dont think that any better  information  would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2511399