K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that Mr D holds with Santander UK Plc. Hes unhappy 
that he was on the standard  variable  rate (SVR)  for about a year.
background
Mr D took out his mortgage  with Santander in November 2013. In November 2015 he moved 
to a new interest rate as his 2013  preferential rate had come  to an end. The 2015 mortgage  
offer notes  the rate to be A variable rate which is 0.99% above the Bank  of England  official 
bank rate (its base  rate), currently 0.50% until 01/11/2017, to give a current rate payable  of 
1.49%. It goes on to explain After  01/11/2017, interest will be charged  at Santanders 
standard variable  rate, currently  4.74% for the remaining  term of the mortgage.
In February 2017  Santander put a mailing block on Mr Ds mortgage account as post had 
been returned as gone away. And then on 2 November 2017 Mr Ds mortgage account 
moved to the SVR which increased his monthly payment roughly from £1,260 to £1,750.
On 19 November 2018 Mr D phoned  Santander and a complaint  was raised that hed not 
been notified of his preferential rate coming to an end. The same  day Mr D applied online for 
a new rate fixed at 2.19%  until 2 February 2024.
Santander dealt  with two complaints from Mr D. The first  which  is the only one Im dealing  
with here  was about Mr D not being  notified of the end of the preferential rate period. The 
second complaint  was that Santander had now turned down Mr Ds application for consent 
to let the property  because  hed applied for a new residential interest rate (on 19 November 
2018) despite already renting the property out so was in breach of his mortgage conditions.
Santander rejected  this complaint. It said that as post had been returned it put a stop on 
sending out any mortgage mailings  to protect  his account. 
Our case handler didnt  think  Santander had done  anything wrong.  Mr D didnt agree and so 
its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr D wont  take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr D but although Ive read and considered  the 
whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what  questions  should be asked or 
answered. For that reason I wont be answering  Mr Ds questions, nor will I be ordering 
Santander to answer  them
Ref: DRN24769712The onus is on the customer to know what mortgage product they have, at what  rate and to 
ask for advice if they need it. Its not Santanders responsibility to monitor  Mr Ds mortgage 
account and approach him with unsolicited  advice on what he could do differently. When 
considering how many customers Santander has thats not feasible. I wouldnt like to try to 
estimate how many of Santanders  mortgage customers  have a preferential rate ending in 
any one month, and a lot of customers make a conscious decision to move to the SVR.
Santander would have written out to Mr D before his rate ended in November 2017  had 
there not been  a mailing block  marker  on the account. And the mailing block  marker was 
only there because  Mr D hadnt updated  the address on his Santander mortgage account. 
Santander had no responsibility to try to contact Mr D in other ways about his rate ending.
Mr D has said he notified Santander of his new address for his bank accounts in either  2015  
or 2016, but you cant just change an address on a residential mortgage account the same 
way. Thats  because its a condition of a residential mortgage account  that you be resident  
that is, live  in the property. So questions  will need  to be asked by a lender if a consumer 
asks to change  their address on a residential  mortgage account. Thats normal  industry 
practice. Santander has also told us that the address for Mr Ds business account hasnt 
been changed since April 2011 and all that time has been the address  Mr D now lives at, not 
the residential property  address he was supposed  to be living at.
Mr D says he wasnt told on the phone  when he updated his address for his bank account  
that he needed to do anything differently for the mortgage. Santander  says he would have 
been told that, always assuming hed asked in the first place. Unfortunately  as Mr D said the 
call happened in either 2015 or 2016  that will no longer  available as it happened so long 
ago. 
Mr D has said that even  if letters had been sent to the property address then he still would 
have received them because his tenants  always forward his post to him. But thats clearly 
not the case because Santander received  post back that had been sent to the property 
address, which  is why the mailing  block marker was put on the account. If the tenants  
always passed post on then Santander  would not have had post returned and wouldnt have 
put the mailing block marker on the account.  
Mr D has questioned what the returned post was, saying all he ever received on the 
mortgage account were  annual  mortgage  statements.  Whilst Santander  hasnt been  able to 
confirm what the post was as thats not something thats noted on the system, having looked  
at the dates it seems  possible  it was an annual mortgage statement are they are generally  
issued each February and the returned  post marker  was put on the account on 27 February.
When considering  any complaint  like this, as Mr D is the one bringing the complaint against 
Santander, to uphold the complaint Mr Ds version  (in that he says he wasnt told to do 
anything different to amend the address on his mortgage, and he was unaware it hadnt 
been done)  needs to be more likely than Santanders version;  not just as likely. Having 
considered everything  I cant  say Mr Ds version is anything more  than just as likely,  which  
isnt enough for me to uphold his complaint.
Santander put a mailing  block marker  on Mr Ds mortgage account when post was returned 
in February 2017.  I cant say Santander was wrong to do so; indeed  Im likely to have been 
more critical if it hadnt done so. Such  markers are an important tool in helping to prevent 
fraud, and help to protect consumers information.  Mr D thinks  Santander should have done 
Ref: DRN24769713more to contact him once  the mailing block marker was placed  on his account  but it didnt 
have to, and I cant  hold a business liable for not doing something it doesnt  have to do.
Mr D has said the increase in his payments  was a lot of money  for him. But it seems  he 
didnt notice that he was paying  about £500 a month  extra for nearly a year. I understand 
Mr D had some personal difficulties, but that doesnt  mean  the responsibility passes to 
Santander instead. Mr D cant dictate how Santander runs its business. If he wants a more  
bespoke banking service  then Mr D will need  to look into providers of that, but the mortgage 
account he has with Santander is just a standard one.
Santander set out the details of the contract  upfront in the mortgage  offer and information 
about the rate was also included in the annual mortgage statements. I understand Mr D 
thinks Santander should have done  more, but it didnt have to.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2476971