K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold him a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage.
background
Mr L took out a mortgage through Nationwide in 1994. At the same time he was sold a PPI 
policy which  wouldve  covered his mortgage repayments in full and provide him with an 
additional amount of £100 per month if he was made redundant, or was too ill to work.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ls complaint should  be upheld because  he had a pre-existing  
medical condition  (PEMC) at the time of the sale. The adjudicator didnt think the restrictive 
terms relating to PEMCs were adequately drawn  to Mr Ls attention.  Had they been brought  
to his attention, the adjudicator didnt think he wouldve  taken the policy.
Nationwide disagreed. It didnt think, in summary,  there was enough  evidence  to conclude 
Mr Ls PEMC would  have put him off taking  the policy.  So Mr Ls complaint has come to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold  Mr Ls complaint.
Nationwide were under a duty to provide Mr L with information on PPI in a clear, fair and 
non-misleading way so he could make an informed choice about whether or not he 
wanted to take the policy. To make  an informed choice Mr L needed to understand the 
costs and benefits of PPI, as well as the main exclusions and limitations  of the policy.
Mr L was diagnosed with a serious condition as a young child and had an operation which  
he said affected his immune system  going  forward. At the time he took out his mortgage and 
PPI he was in remission,  but was still, as an adult, having annual  check ups. 
Nationwide said that in 85% of cases Mr Ls condition could be cured, if caught early  
enough. 
Given that in adulthood,  Mr L was still being  checked annually, it seems to me that there  was 
a continuing risk to his health. And although  at the time of sale of the policy Mr L says he 
hadnt had any time off work because of it, Im satisfied the condition was one that could 
possibly change over time, potentially  leading to Mr L having to take time off work because  
of it.  
Im satisfied Mr L suffered  from a PEMC  which was excluded  from cover under the policy.
So I think the PEMC exclusion  wouldve mattered to Mr L because he wouldnt have been  
able to make  a successful  claim for time off work related to his condition.  And I dont think  
hed have taken  the policy if things were  made  clearer and he understood this.
Ref: DRN20320792I think  Mr L has lost out financially because Nationwide  didnt make the exclusions 
relating to PEMCs clear  to him. Because of this I uphold Mr Ls complaint.
what Nationwide should do to put things right
Nationwide should  put Mr L in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and Nationwide should:
 Pay Mr L the amount  he paid each  month  for the PPI.
 Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
 If Mr L made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. 
Nationwide must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mr Ls complaint against Nationwide Building Society 
and direct it to put things  right as described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2032079