K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O say ReAssure Limited told them when they took out pensions  in 1989, that 
they could have the whole amount paid out as a tax free lump-sum.
background
Mr and Mrs O have told us that in 1989  ReAssure  contacted them  and gave them advice to 
contract out of the State Earnings  Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). Mr and Mrs O say 
that they took out the plan as they were told that when they reached retirement age theyd 
be able to take the whole lot as a lump-sum and tax free.
Theyve explained that it was the ability to take the whole  lump-sum tax free that made  their 
mind up to contract out of SERPS.  And for nearly  thirty  years  they have  been  expecting to 
get this when they take their benefits. Its only recently that ReAssure has told them  that they 
can only have 25% as a tax free lump-sum.
ReAssure responded to say that it wouldnt be upholding the complaint. It said that Mr and 
Mrs O met the requirements at the time for contracting out of SERPS  to be considered 
beneficial. And that Mr and Mrs O were only entitled to 25% of their pension as a tax free 
lump-sum.
Mr and Mrs O were unhappy with this and our investigator looked  into their concerns. 
However, our investigator didnt think ReAssure had done  anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs O say that ReAssure should  pay them their pensions as a tax free lump-sum. 
And Reassure should foot the tax bill as they were given false  information about their 
pension and had relied upon this advice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr and Mrs Os complaint  is that ReAssures adviser told them in 1989 that they 
could have their pension as a tax free lump-sum when they came to take their benefits.
Obviously with not being present when this occurred and with the time that has passed I 
cannot be sure what was said to Mr and Mrs O. Whilst I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs O 
genuinely believe that they were  told by the adviser they could have the whole pension  as a 
lump-sum  I hope theyll understand why I dont  think that their testimony from an event 30 
years ago on its own, is enough for me to conclude that ReAssure did something  wrong.
Whilst it is possible that the adviser at the time purposely misled Mr and Mrs O and told them  
they could have their whole  pension  as a tax free lump-sum, I do think  this is unlikely.  I say 
this because legislation at the time and even now, typically  only allows  for a maximum tax 
free lump-sum of 25%. The adviser or anyone who worked in pensions,  wouldve been well 
aware of this.
Whilst I understand that potentially a dishonest salesman might have told Mr and Mrs O 
what they wanted to hear, this would seem  a particularly risky sales tactic. Because  if Mr and 
Mrs O had spoken with anyone else at ReAssure or anyone else with a basic  knowledge of 
pensions they wouldve  found out that this wasnt true. 
Ref: DRN25416192Pensions are complex financial  products and most people arent familiar with how they work,  
so its easy for misunderstandings  to occur.  Its not hard to imagine a scenario where the 
adviser told Mr and Mrs O that the whole  lump-sum would be tax free. And that a 
misunderstanding took place, where  Mr and Mrs O thought  this meant  the whole pension  
could be taken as a lump-sum and tax free. 
Ultimately I cant  be sure what happened  but I dont think  theres  enough evidence  to say 
that on the balance of probabilities that Mr and Mrs O were  misled by Reassure.
Mr and Mrs O have said that it was this tax free lump-sum incentive  that persuaded them to 
contract out of SERPS. But contracting-out at the time was designed to offer an alternative 
to SERPS under similar terms. If Mr and Mrs O had stayed contracted  into SERPS they 
wouldnt have received a tax free lump-sum  at all  as SERPS didnt allow  for this. So if a tax 
free lump-sum was Mr and Mrs Os main  concern,  contracting  out has allowed them  to get a 
tax free lump-sum that they wouldnt  have  received  otherwise.
Mr and Mrs O have also sent in evidence from around the time of the sale that they say 
shows they were told by ReAssure that the lump-sum was tax free. But as Ive said above  
the lump-sum is and was tax free, but this is restricted to 25% of the pension fund. And Mr 
and Mrs O have only provided one page  that talks about the tax free nature of the lump-sum.  
Legislation has changed since 1989, and it does  allow in some cases for the whole pension  
to be taken as a lump-sum but still only 25% of this is tax free. I cannot  fairly say to 
ReAssure that it should  pay Mr and Mrs O their whole pension as a lump-sum tax free, 
legislation does not allow for this. 
As Mr and Mrs O have  complained about the advice  given to contract out of SERPS  Ive also 
considered whether this advice was suitable  for their circumstances at the time. But having 
done so and for the reasons previously explained to them, I think that it was. Mr and Mrs O, 
had the relevant earnings and were  of an age where  contracting  out of SERPS was 
considered to be potentially beneficial for them.
Im sorry  to hear that Mr and Mrs O thought  for thirty years that they would get a tax free 
lump-sum and I understand finding  out that this wasnt the case has been upsetting  for them.  
Unfortunately, tax-free lump-sums from pensions arent usually higher than 25% of the fund 
value.
I know Mr and Mrs O will be disappointed  with my decision, but for the reasons explained, I 
do not uphold  their complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint and make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Ref: DRN25416193Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2541619