K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Mr B are unhappy that The New India Assurance Company Limited wont  pay their 
full claim under their Shops and Restaurants Policy for water damage to their restaurant. 
They are represented  by a loss assessor,  Mr L.
background
In October  2016 Mr P and Mr B suffered damage to the basement  area of their restaurant 
due to a blockage in the main sewer. The blockage was cleared by the water  company and 
Mr P and Mr B made a claim to New India. They submitted a quote for repairs  of the 
buildings under the Fixtures and Fittings cover of the policy.  After inspecting  the premises  
New India assessed that the fittings  in the basement and the ground floor should  be valued 
at £85,000. This equated to the figure  for plant and machinery in the businesss annual 
accounts for 2015.  Under the policy there  was only £20,000 cover. It assessed the costs to 
repair/renew the fixtures and fittings at £10,640.  This was after deduction of the parts of the 
quote which in its view related to the buildings and so were  the Landlords responsibility.
It applied averaging to the policy which meant  that the claim was reduced by the percentage 
the claim was underinsured.  For the fixtures and fittings this meant  a reduction to £2,503.65 
which is what it offered in respect of the claim. It said it would consider an increase  if Mr P 
and Mr B were able to show how much  they had spent on fixtures and fittings or produce the 
lease to show which items were the tenants responsibility. They produced  a letter  from the 
landlord explaining that they took over the premises as a shell and carried  out all the 
fixtures and fittings and decoration But they couldnt produce evidence  of the amount spent 
nor of the lease. And New India didnt think Mr P and Mr B had offered sufficient evidence for 
it to increase the amount  offered.
On referral to this service  our investigator  didnt  think the complaint  should be upheld.  She 
thought that New India had acted  reasonably  in the absence of any further proof of the claim 
from Mr P and Mr B.
Mr L objected.  He said that New India hadnt  shown an itemised breakdown  of its calculation 
for the amount at risk, and that Mr P and Mr B had shown ample evidence to show  they fitted 
out the restaurant and are legally liable for all fixtures  and fittings.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN23796282valuation of tenants fixtures and fittings
Mr P and Mr B have a quote for just over £37,000  for the repairs to the building.  New India 
has assessed that just £10,640 of that is the tenants responsibility. The rest it assesses is 
for repairs to the buildings like replacing  walls,  ceilings and flooring. Mr P and Mr B have 
been asked to produce either an asset  register or the lease to show  that they were  
responsible for the items deemed to be part of the building rather  than their fixtures  and 
fittings. They couldnt do so We asked for a copy of the lease but the only document Ive 
seen is a licence  to assign, which doesnt detail any responsibilities.
Mr P and Mr B were  also asked for evidence of the amounts they had spent but again  were 
unable to provide  any. Considering that this only goes back  to 2012 and a considerable 
amount was spent  between 2014 and 2015, I think they should  be able to produce  some 
evidence. Particularly  as they would need  this information for tax purposes. I dont think the 
undated letter from the Landlord is sufficient to show what  parts  of the building  the tenants 
might have been responsible for.
So New India has assessed  the value at risk for fixtures and fittings at £85,000 as this is the 
amount set for plant and machinery in the businesss  accounts.  Mr L says this is just a figure 
for accounting purposes and that New India should be able to independently verify this. But I 
think, in the absence of any other  evidence,  that the figure in the accounts should be taken  
as a reasonable assessment of the value at risk. New India says its loss adjusters visited the 
premises and assessed that this was a reasonable figure for all the fixtures  and fittings  in the 
basement and ground floor. Ive seen the assessed  list and it appears to reasonably  
separate out the landlords as opposed  to the tenants liability to me. But if Mr P and Mr B 
want to put forward  a different figure  its up to them to produce evidence  of it.
I think the assessment  of the vale at risk and the value  of the claim for the fixtures  and 
fittings is reasonable.
underinsurance
It is for the policy holder to prove their claim and the value of it. The cover  in the policy  is 
under the Contents section and is for fixtures fittings and interior decorations . There  is no 
cover under Tenants  Improvements . The amount  covered is £20,000. The policy was 
bought through a broker and according to the proposal form that was the amount of cover 
requested
As Ive said,  Mr P and Mr B clearly asked for cover of £20,000.  This was against the value at 
risk of £85,000. If the sum insured is less than the value of the property covered, the policy  
allows for any claim to be reduced  proportionately.  So where the amount  of cover is, as 
here, less than a quarter  of the value  at risk, it was fair for New India to pay less than a 
quarter of its assessed value of the claim. 
overall
I think that, in the absence of further evidence from Mr P and Mr B, New India has 
reasonably assessed their claim and the amount it will pay out.
Ref: DRN23796283my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 December 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2379628