K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mr J, trading as J, a business,  have complained about their commercial insurer, AXA 
Insurance UK Plc in relation to claims made to it following  two burglaries at Js premises.
background
Js policy began on 24 June 2017 and J began trading  on 12 July 2017. On 22 July 2017 Js 
premises were  broken into. Some damage  was done to the premises  and various items were  
stolen and damaged. Repairs were done,  stock was replaced and the business  re-opened  
the same  day. AXA was notified and its loss adjuster visited the premises on 26 July 2017.
On 1 August 2017 there was a second break-in. This time many  more items were stolen and 
damaged. Mr and Mr J tidied up and began trading again the following day with depleted 
stock. The loss adjuster  re-visited  on 2 August 2017.
The loss adjuster issued reports on 31 July and 9 August 2017. At that time there were some 
concerns, including that the policy had only recently begun. But also as to whether there  had 
been a previous theft that should have been reported but hadnt and also whether  the right 
type of security had been  in place  for the premises. AXA wanted  to carry out further  
enquiries before acknowledging the policy and/or looking to settle the claims. On 
9 September 2017 J ceased  trading.
On 12 September 2017, AXAs loss adjuster  interviewed Mr and Mr J. The loss adjuster 
made a report to AXA on 19 September 2017.  At this stage Mr and Mr J were unhappy that 
the claim didnt seem  to be moving  forward. The loss adjuster responded, noting thered 
been some  oversights in claim handling and a copy of the police report was requested. On
11 October, having received no further update,  Mr and Mr J told AXA the business  had 
ceased trading.
On 25 October  2017 AXA decided not to avoid the policy and accepted  the claim. It arranged  
to make an interim  payment  of £2,500 on each claim. In November a further £750 was paid 
against each claim.  During this time evidence was being sought and gathered  regarding  Js 
losses that stemmed  from the claim and in December 2017 a long conversation  took place 
between a loss adjuster  and Mr and Mr J to try and establish exactly  what  was being claimed 
for under which claim and what evidence there was to support each item.
In March 2018, having considered the situation,  the loss adjuster wrote to Mr and Mr J 
setting out the final offer of settlement for both claims. The loss adjuster felt there was a 
possible total loss of around £8,500 across the two claims, including loss related to business 
interruption. He explained though that he felt the evidence to support even this level of 
payment was scarce. He said as £6,500 had been paid to date, only a further £2,000  would 
now be sent.
Mr and Mr J were extremely unhappy. They said they felt AXAs delays had caused  J to 
cease trading. They said they were  expecting a much greater settlement; theyd been led to 
believe by a senior loss adjuster that theyd  get around £100,000. They said evidence,  such 
as data from Js till had been ignored.  When AXA wouldnt change its position,  Mr and Mr J 
complained to this service.
Our adjudicator felt that AXA had settled  the claim fairly and reasonably given  the level of 
evidence available  to it. He didnt recommend that it do anything more.
Ref: DRN28443462Mr and Mr J said they felt this was a wholly unfair  outcome.  They said theyd been  treated 
unfairly by AXA throughout and just when they thought a good settlement had been  reached, 
that was revoked  and they were left with nothing.
As Mr and Mr J remained unhappy  the complaint was passed to me for decision. I asked 
AXA to provide a recording of the phone call from December 2017. Unfortunately that took a 
while to get in a format we could  use. Once  we received that and I listened to it I completed  
and issued a provisional decision (because  we hadnt previously considered the content of 
that call or considered if AXAs  actions had caused  J to cease trading). I explained that 
I didnt think the complaint  should  be upheld.
Both parties  had a chance to respond  to my findings. Neither did. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My provisional findings were:
I think AXA did cause  delays during  the early stages of these claims; in essence very little 
happened between  the loss adjuster visiting and compiling his reports  in late July and early  
August, and Mr and Mr J being  interviewed  in September 2017.  However,  claim enquiries  of 
this nature would  always  have  taken  some time (police reports  commonly take eight weeks 
to obtain) and given AXAs concerns Im not convinced  it would be reasonable to say it 
should have completed those enquiries,  accepted the claim and made  interim  payments 
prior to the business closing on 9 September.
But Im also mindful  that health  issues impacted Mr and Mr Js ability to keep trading. And
I also think the nature of the break-ins that occurred had an impact here. For example, 
I know Mr and Mr J were looking to the police to help get them  out of the lease for Js 
premises as it was likely unsafe  for them to remain trading.  Taking everything into account
Im not convinced that J ceased trading due to any failure by AXA to progress  the claim more  
quickly.
Ive listened to the long conversation that took place in December 2017.  I think the adjuster 
during that call treated  Mr and Mr J fairly and reasonably.  He explained the current situation 
and set out what  was then needed  to support the claim. Im not convinced  that, during this 
call, any promise or suggestion  was made of what was likely going to be paid. The adjuster 
didnt, in my view, mislead Mr and Mr J in respect  of what AXA might  pay. And if any other 
operative had given any indication prior to this point that any specific  amount was likely to be 
paid, I think this conversation reasonably cleared up that confusion.
I know  Mr and Mr J have a concern that AXA has ignored the data they provided which was 
gathered from the till records. I dont think that is the case. The call in December  shows 
these were considered  but found to be unreliable or not particularly useful for a number  of 
reasons. Im satisfied AXAs view of this evidence is reasonable.
Ive considered the payments AXA has made and the points raised  about  the inadequacies  
of the available  evidence.  Its my view that, wherever reasonably possible, AXA has given 
the benefit of the doubt to J and made  fair allowances  within  its settlement. For example
Ref: DRN28443463£399 was claimed  for a well-known brand of laptop,  but there were no purchase receipts for 
the item,  no tracker code,  no photos  of it being used by Mr and Mr J, no evidence, beyond 
the fact that the item had been reported  to police as stolen during the theft, that such  an item 
had been owned or if it had, of its likely  make, model or value. But even in light of such  little 
evidence, AXA paid £250 against this item. Im not persuaded that I could reasonably  expect 
AXA to have  done anything more.  In saying that I think its worth noting that, given the limited 
evidence Mr and Mr J were able to provide in support  of their claims, if AXA had looked to 
pay less in settlement,  I might have found that wasnt unreasonable.
I fully understand why Mr and Mr J think  they should get a larger  settlement, I dont doubt 
they genuinely believe Js loss is far greater  than that accepted and paid for by AXA.  But 
insurance claims need to be evidenced. We wouldnt expect an insurer to demand evidence  
that proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that something was owned and that it was worth a 
particular value, or that there was definitely  a loss in terms of earnings. That wouldnt be fair. 
But there does  need to be a fair degree of substantiation. And the settlements Mr and Mr J 
are looking  for in respect  of Js claims, through no fault of their own because I know  theyve 
done their best,  just havent been sufficiently substantiated.
Whilst I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mr J, I dont intend to 
require AXA to make any further payment to them. Im satisfied that AXA has assessed  the 
claims reasonably and made fair settlements for them.
As neither party raised any objection to my provisional findings, Ive no reason to move  away 
from them. My provisional findings, copied above,  now form the findings of my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make  any award against  AXA Insurance  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 September 2019. 
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2844346