K820x#14complaint
Ms E complains  Tradewise  Insurance  Company  Limited (Tradewise) unfairly declined a 
claim she made on her motor insurance  policy. 
Ms E is represented in bringing this complaint but for ease Ill refer to all actions  and 
comments as being those of Ms E. 
background
In February 2018  Ms Es car was stolen. The keys had been taken from her property by a 
family member and the car had been  recovered by the police. It had been in an accident that 
had caused damage to her car and others. 
Tradewise said the policy excludes loss or damage caused as a result a theft by a family 
member, so it declined the claim for damage to her car. 
Ms E complained to Tradewise, she said the person who had stolen her car wasnt  really a 
family member. And shed asked the police to press charges.  She also thought  on reading 
the exclusion Tradewise  had referred  to; the damage to her vehicle should be covered. She 
said the exclusion said any payment would be limited to the cost of repairs,  so this is what 
she wanted. She said the term was ambiguous and so should be read in her favour. 
She also complained  that Tradewise kept taking the premiums for her car insurance even 
though she didnt have the car. And that it didnt  offer her a courtesy car. Tradewise didnt 
agree to change  its mind.  It said even if the person who stole Ms Es car wasnt her nephew  
the policy also excludes cover for theft by a friend. So Ms E brought  her complaint to our 
service. Ms E asked  for Tradewise to cover her claim and losses including her legal costs.  
Our investigator thought Tradewise was entitled  to rely on the exclusion to decline the claim. 
She noted Ms E had given the family member access to her property, and this is where 
theyd been able to take the car keys from. Her car had been involved in an accident with a 
third party, so her insurance had to cover this in line with legal requirements. So our 
investigator thought  Tradewise  had acted reasonably in collecting the insurance  premium for 
the year. And she didnt think a courtesy car needed to be offered as Ms E wasnt  covered 
for this under  her policy.
Ms E didnt agree. So the matter has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator. Ive explained why below. 
When making a claim on an insurance policy, it is for the insured (so in this case Ms E) to 
demonstrate theyve suffered a loss covered by the policy. If the insurer  wants to decline the 
claim based on a policy  exclusion  it must  show it can rely on it.
Ref: DRN25015362Ms E has suffered damage to her car as a result  of a theft. But Tradewise has relied on the 
following exclusion:
The insurance does not cover
15) Loss  or damage occasioned by theft or attempted theft or any malicious act 
expedited by or in anyway brought about  by the Insured  Friend or member  of their 
families. Any payment will be limited  to the cost of repairs or, if stolen or beyond  
repair, to the value at the time of the loss or Accident.
Ms E initially said the thief was her nephew, she later said it wasnt  really her nephew;  they 
were related  through  extended family.  Family  isnt defined under the policy, but Im satisfied 
that he can be considered as a member of the family even if he wasnt  immediate family as 
they were extended  family and Ms E considered him to be her nephew. And even if I were to 
accept that he wasnt,  he would meet the definition of friend; he was in Ms Es property with 
her permission and shed given him her house  keys to return when she wasnt  there. I think 
this would be enough to satisfy a friend  under the policy.
Ive also thought about whether Tradewise has acted fairly in relying  on this exclusion,  and I 
think it has. I appreciate  Ms E didnt  give permission to take the car, but this means the car 
was stolen. And the policy excludes  damage  when the car has been stolen by a family 
member or friend. 
I note there  is a further sentence of the exclusion which suggests a payment could be paid 
even in these  circumstances. But I dont think this invalidates the previous  exclusion as Im 
satisfied that the policy  is clear  that it doesnt cover damage caused by a theft by a family 
member or friend. Tradewise has said it can use its discretion to make a limited  payment 
under the policy,  even  when it could rely on the exclusion. Its given me some examples of 
when it would do this, but its decided not to do so in this case.  And I think  its acted 
reasonably in not doing so given the close connection between  the two parties. 
Ive seen several other policies that dont  cover theft by a family member.  Although some will 
offer cover where the policyholder has agreed  to press charges against  the person  who stole 
the vehicle. Because Tradewise doesnt  do this, I think  its fair to expect it to highlight  the 
term to make sure the policyholder is aware of it. In this case  I can see this term is in the key 
facts document.  I think this is enough  to bring  it to Ms Es attention  so I think Tradewise can 
fairly rely on it.
I appreciate Ms E is unhappy  that a courtesy car wasnt provided. But I dont  think  Tradewise 
was unreasonable in not providing one. Within a week of the theft being reported  Tradewise 
had interviewed  Ms E and told her the claim was likely to be declined. And it doesnt seem  
from looking at Ms Es policy that she was entitled to a courtesy  car. So I think  Tradewise 
acted reasonably in not providing one.
 
Im aware Ms E has been charged the full insurance premium even though she was without  
her car for a period  of the cover. This is because Tradewise received a claim from the owner 
of the other car that was damaged in the accident. Tradewise was obliged  to cover the claim 
against  Ms  Es insurance policy. And given the claim amount was likely to exceed  the 
premium Ms E paid,  it is entitled to keep  the full premium. 
Ref: DRN25015363I appreciate this isnt the outcome Ms E was hoping for but Im satisfied Tradewise  has acted 
fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. So it follows  that Im 
not going to ask it to compensate her for any losses, including her legal costs. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2501536