K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to an existing store card Mrs H had. The policy 
was taken out during a telephone call in 2002.  Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the 
insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision in August 2019, explaining 
why I was thinking of coming to a different outcome to the adjudicator. Ive attached a copy 
of my findings to the end of this decision.  
I asked everyone to come back to me with any further comments or evidence  before I issued 
my final decision. Neither party had anything  further to add. 
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case. 
Having done this, and as no one has given me anything else to think about, my decision 
remains the same - Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. 
Overall, I dont  think Mrs H has lost out by anything  FICL might have done wrong. 
Ref: DRN25045902my final decision
For the reasons  explained in my provisional decision, my final decision is I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN25045903complaint
Mrs H says Financial  Insurance Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold  her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  attached to an existing store  card Mrs H had. The policy was 
taken out during a telephone call in 2002.  Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, 
should take responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to FICL  as the seller in my 
decision.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case. 
Having done this, Im thinking of not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. 
Mrs H says the policy was sold to her during a meeting. FICL says the policy was sold during  a 
telephone call a few months after she took out the store card.  Looking at a copy of Mrs Hs application 
form for the store card,  I can see that she didnt opt for the PPI at that time, so I think the policy was 
sold during  a telephone call at a later date. 
During that telephone call, FICL should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear to     Mrs H that 
the policy  was optional. Mrs H says she was not aware  she had taken  PPI and it was added  without 
her knowledge. Unfortunately FICL hasnt been able to provide any further information  - such  as a 
recording of that telephone call or a copy of the call script used at the time. So its not possible for me 
to know  exactly what was said at the time this policy  was taken out. But based on what I do know  of 
the sales  process at the time and given the fact the PPI was added  some time after she applied  for 
the store  card, I think     Mrs  H would have understood the policy  was optional when she chose to 
take it.
So on balance I think FICL made it clear that Mrs H didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I understand why she cant remember this.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But it did 
have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. Mrs 
H says she had a medical condition  at the time of sale and our adjudicator thought this condition was 
something that wouldve made it difficult for Mrs H to make a claim  on the policy, so they upheld her 
complaint. 
Ive thought carefully about  the information Mrs H has told us about her condition.  Having done this, I 
dont have enough evidence that Mrs H would have thought this would be the main reasons she might  
have needed to claim  on the policy in the future.  And the policy wouldve covered  her for other things. 
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by 
any of the other exclusions  or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mrs H says she had sick pay benefits from her employer.  But the PPI wouldve paid out alongside her 
employee benefits. It also wouldve covered  her if she became unemployed.  And it doesnt look like 
Ref: DRN25045904Mrs H had any other means she couldve relied on to make her repayments  such  as savings. So I 
think the PP would  have  been useful for her if something went wrong.  
Overall, I dont think Mrs H has lost out by anything FICL might have done wrong.  
Ref: DRN2504590