K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained about the way a claim under his home insurance policy  was handled 
by Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G).
background
In early February 2018 Mr O made a claim to L&G after a vehicle crashed into the front of his 
house.
L&G appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim. The loss adjuster assessed the damage 
and offered Mr O £1,388  (after deduction  of the policy excess) to repair  his property.  It said if 
he obtained his own repair  quotes, it would consider them. Alternatively  it offered to carry out 
the work  for him.
Mr O said he went to a great deal of trouble obtaining quotes for the various works and 
discussing them with L&G and its loss adjuster. He said it refused to give him a breakdown 
of its cash settlement so that he could compare it against his quotes. After  several  weeks  
L&G agreed to pay him £2,261 and that was paid at the end of April 2018.
Mr O feels he shouldnt have had to go to such lengths to get the cash  settlement offer 
increased, especially  when the entire cost of the claim should be recoverable from the driver 
of the vehicle. He also said his neighbour who suffered  similar damage in the same  accident 
had their claim processed by a different insurer much more quickly  and easily.
Mr O brought his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator  didnt uphold  the complaint. He 
didnt think thered been excessive delay on L&Gs part or that it had failed to provide 
reasonable support to Mr O.
As Mr O didnt  agree, the matter has been  referred  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of Mr Os policy L&G might repair the damage. But if Mr O preferred to use 
his own contractor for the work, his policy  says that the amount paid will not exceed what 
L&G would have  paid its supplier. The only exception is when L&Gs  own contractor is 
unable to repair the property. Thats a reasonable term thats often  found  in home insurance 
policies. Mr O seems  to have preferred a cash settlement. Ive no reason to think  L&Gs  own 
contractors would have  been unable to repair the property. So it only had to offer him what  it 
would have paid its own contractors. 
Unfortunately obtaining  quotes  from several  contractors for different sorts  of work can often 
be time-consuming and inconvenient for a consumer. Insurers have agreed (and usually  
discounted) rates with their contractors,  so its much easier for them to work out how much a 
repair will cost them. I can understand that it would have been helpful  for Mr O if hed had a 
breakdown of costs  from L&G. But I think L&G was entitled to keep the cost information 
confidential because  builders might be less likely to give it competitive rates in future if that 
information were more widely available. Despite this I can see that it did spend  time 
Ref: DRN29438002discussing the scope  of works and Mr Os quotes over the course of several phone calls with 
him.
I cant fairly blame L&G for the effort it took Mr O to get to an agreed cash  settlement. As a 
result of Mr Os efforts he managed to increase the amount he was paid. If he didnt want to 
do this, L&G would have  carried  out the works  for him. Im also not persuaded that L&Gs  
original cash settlement offer was unreasonable.
I appreciate it must have  been frustrating for Mr O to find that his claim took much  longer 
than his neighbours. But I dont  know the terms on which that claim was settled. Just 
because another  claim was settled relatively quickly doesnt mean  that there were 
unreasonable delays on the part of L&G.
All in all, Im not convinced that L&G has treated  Mr O unfairly or unreasonably.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2943800