K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that a finance agreement that was brokered by Pendragon Finance and 
Insurance Services Limited,  trading  as Evans  Halshaw, was misrepresented to her.
background
Mrs D has been represented by her daughter throughout  this complaint but for ease I will 
refer to Mrs D in this decision.
Mrs D took receipt of a used car in August  2018.  She wanted  to pay for the car in cash which 
would be provided  by her solicitors when they released equity  from her property. But she did 
want to take advantage of an extended  warranty. Evans Halshaw therefore brokered a hire 
purchase agreement  to finance  this. Mrs D understood this would  cost her £11.03 per month 
but was subsequently  disappointed to find the finance agreement  was for a total of £1,500 
and for a little under  £50 per month.
She complained to Evans Halshaw  and they explained that the minimum amount a hire 
purchase agreement  could be set up for was £1,500 so it had been  explained  to her that 
they would  fund part of the car purchase  with the hire purchase agreement  and the rest 
would fund the extended warranty.
Mrs D was disappointed  by their response so she referred her complaint to this service and 
our investigator provided an opinion.  He didnt think there was sufficient  evidence  to suggest 
Mrs D had been mis-sold the agreement.  He understood  Evans  Halshaws position that a 
smaller finance arrangement was not possible and he reviewed  the finance agreement  and 
thought it reasonable to suggest Mrs D would have understood  that she was signing up for 
higher payments. He noted the agreement set out the payments clearly.
Mrs D didnt agree with the investigator. She said that Evans Halshaw were wrong to 
promote a warranty for £11.03 when they were not able to provide one. She said that if shed 
been told the monthly payment was a little under £50 she would not have  agreed  to the deal 
and she therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mrs D so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN25832632Mrs Ds complaint relates to a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the agreement  should not have been 
misrepresented to Mrs D. If it was, and if Mrs D was told something  that was wrong,  without 
which she would not have entered into the finance  agreement, Id think Evans Halshaw were 
responsible and Id ask them to take some  action.
Im not persuaded here that theres  sufficient evidence the finance agreement was 
misrepresented to Mrs D. The business  has explained that an £11 warranty  was available  as 
advertised but that, as Mrs D wanted to finance  the warranty rather than pay cash,  it was 
necessary to finance some of her car deal to reach  the £1,500  lower  limit for the hire 
purchase agreement.  That explanation seems plausible.
I can see that the finance agreement, order form and invoice all refer to an amount to be 
financed of £1,500.98 and theyve  all been signed  by Mrs D. I think  its reasonable to 
assume she would therefore  have been  aware that the monthly  payments over a 24 month  
period would be significantly more than the £11 warranty offer and I can see the monthly 
payments of £49.35 were clearly set out on the finance agreement.
In those circumstances I dont think it would be fair to suggest  there  is evidence  the 
agreement was mis-sold to Mrs D and Im therefore not asking Evans  Halshaw to take any 
further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2583263