K820x#14complaint
Mr C1 and Mr C2, were  partners trading as a business called NN. They complained  to 
Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) about mis-sold payment  protection  insurance (PPI) associated  with 
their business account and are unhappy with the compensation that Lloyds offered to settle 
the complaint.
background
In 1998 Mr C1 and Mr C2 opened  a current account  for their business, NN, with Lloyds  and 
at the same  time took out a PPI policy to cover the overdraft on the account. This type of PPI 
is also known as commercial overdraft repayment  insurance (CORI).The PPI was cancelled  
in 2014.
Mr C1 and Mr C2 say that they first complained to Lloyds about  mis-sold PPI in 2012 but 
were told there was no PPI associated  with the business account. But when they complained 
in 2017, Lloyds upheld the complaint  that the PPI was mis-sold and offered compensation of 
£64,627.11 to settle  the complaint.
Mr C2 says if Lloyds  had paid the compensation in 2012 this would have avoided the 
business financial problems in 2016 and he would  not have been made personally bankrupt. 
Also Mr C2s share of the compensation was paid to his trustee in bankruptcy  and if Lloyds 
had dealt with the complaint in 2012  he would have received the money  directly.  
Mr C1 and Mr C2 think they should  get more compensation for consequential losses  as they 
say all the business and personal  financial problems were caused by having paid for the 
PPI.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2018, a copy of which is attached  to and forms 
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I set out in some detail the background to this complaint and the 
reasons why I thought the offer made by Lloyds was fair.
Mr C2, on behalf of Mr C1 and the business has responded to that provisional decision 
explaining why they remain unhappy and dont agree. 
The business has received my provisional  decision but has submitted no further evidence.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I slightly delayed issuing  this final decision  to allow Mr C2 to provide additional information 
he had requested from Lloyds. Mr C2 has raised concerns about Lloyds failing to provide the 
information within timescales expected for his data request. If Mr C2 has any concerns about 
Lloyds failing to provide  such information or not complying with the law in relation  to his data 
requests this would  need to be taken up with the Information Commissioner.
Mr C2 has now received  the information he requested and he has sent a reply  to my 
provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN23090082He has provided  an extract from a record of Lloyds that indicates in January 2011 there is a 
reference to the PPI (referred to in the note as CORI) being on the account.  The full note 
also refers to the fact it relates to the review of the overdraft limit. From all the records  I have 
seen previously from Lloyds this overdraft review  occurred in January most years.
I agree  that Lloyds  knew Mr C2 had PPI on the overdraft  and the record from 2011 confirms 
this. As I said in my provisional decision Mr C2 had made a successful claim on the PPI a 
few years before this, which  is also evidenced in the records. But the issue in dispute was 
whether Lloyds had told Mr C2 that there  was no PPI associated with this account. 
The records  Ive seen  from Lloyds  do not contain  any indication  that Mr C1 or Mr C2 ever 
made a complaint in or before 2017 that the PPI was mis-sold and that it was ever denied by 
Lloyds that there was PPI on the overdraft  account.  Mr C2 made a successful claim on the 
policy in 2004  so both parties should  have been  aware there was a policy.
As I also said in my provisional  decision Mr C2 had submitted that he was told in a letter  by 
Lloyds that there was no PPI on the account. I have still not seen such a letter. Nor does the 
evidence and records provided indicate  that Mr C2 was told there was no PPI on the account 
or that a letter stating  this was ever sent.  
I note his recent submission that he says the bank representative said there was no PPI on 
the account in the presence  of Mr C1, Mr C2 and another family member.  It would  be 
unusual for the bank  to discuss business  accounts  in the presence of non-partners. It has 
also been shown  previously that a letter was sent by Lloyds regarding PPI on a personal 
mortgage and it is possible there  is some  confusion about the two issues  of personal and 
business PPI. But there  is nothing in the records I have seen to show  Lloyds  ever said in 
2012 there was no PPI on the business  overdraft. 
Mr C2 has in his response said I was clearly paying CORI as shown in the notes and 
therefore there was no need to take out any security at all.  But the PPI was an insurance to 
cover for example sickness if Mr C2 was actually unable to work and so make some monthly 
payments to the overdraft on his behalf. Exactly  as happened when he had made  his 
successful claim  in 2004. 
PPI does not cover paying the debts  incurred by the business or the repayment  of the total 
overdraft facility. As I indicated in my provisional  decision  the overdraft had increased over 
the years  and Lloyds  had discussed on a number of occasions with Mr C1 and Mr C2 
reducing this unsecured  debt. So having the PPI did not mean Mr C1 and Mr C2 did not 
need to secure  their borrowings  as was required by the bank.  
Mr C2 has also made a number of further points in response to the provisional decision. But 
none of these add any additional  evidence to support that the complaint about PPI being 
mis-sold was denied by Lloyds. Nor is there anything  to show  that the PPI mis-sale directly  
caused Mr C1 and Mr C2 to take out a loan for £50,000 or caused  Mr C2s personal 
bankruptcy.
I acknowledge Mr C2s point that the compensation in 2012  may have been more than 50% 
of the amount paid in 2018.  I had not accurately worked out the amount and only stated in 
my provisional decision it was possible it could have been  around 50%.  I apologise if Mr C2 
misunderstood my point as I was not saying it was at that level.  However it would  have been  
Ref: DRN23090083substantially less in 2012 that what was actually paid in 2018 and I believe less than the 
amount Mr C2 has estimated.
I have also noted  all Mr C2s further  points, but they are his recollection and interpretation of 
events and there is no additional evidence  provided  in his recent submissions about the PPI 
other than the note extract.  
No one can say for sure what may have  happened  in alternative scenarios. But I have seen 
no additional  evidence  to show that the PPI was the direct cause of the loan or of any further 
consequential losses.
In this decision I am only considering what is fair compensation for Lloyds to pay for the mis-
sold PPI on the business  overdraft. I cannot  comment on any other concerns Mr C2 has 
raised about mis-sold  loans or the actions of Lloyds in dealing  with him over many years. 
These matters may be dealt with by separate complaints but do not affect the issue of what 
compensation should be paid for the mis-sold PPI on the overdraft.
Therefore as I have  seen  nothing new to persuade me I should  reach  a different outcome, I 
am still of the view that Lloyds has paid fair compensation  in relation to the mis-sold PPI. My 
full reasons for this are set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and 
forms part of this final decision
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc has offered and paid fair compensation and Im not 
going to tell it to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C1 and Mr C2 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23090084Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr C1 and Mr C2, who were  partners in NN, are unhappy with the compensation that Lloyds Bank 
PLC (Lloyds)  has offered  to settle  their complaint about the mis-sale  of a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy that was associated with their business current  account.
background
In February 1998 Mr C1 and Mr C2 opened a current account  for their business,  NN, with Lloyds and 
at the same time took out a PPI policy to cover the overdraft on the account. Mr C1 and Mr C2 were 
joint partners in the business.  Mr C2 has brought the complaint on behalf of both partners.
Mr C2 says that they complained to Lloyds about the PPI in 2012 but were  told there was no PPI 
associated with the business  account. But when they complained again in 2017, Lloyds  upheld the 
complaint that the PPI was mis-sold and offered total compensation of £64,627.11  to settle the 
complaint.
Mr C2 says if Lloyds had paid the compensation in 2012 this would have avoided  the business 
financial problems in 2016. He also says he would not have had to take out a £50,000 business  loan, 
secured on his property,  and he personally  would not have  been made bankrupt  if the PPI complaint 
had been settled in 2012. Mr C2s share of the compensation was paid to his trustee  in bankruptcy  
and he believes  if Lloyds had dealt with the complaint about mis-sold PPI in 2012 he would have 
received the money  directly.  
Mr C2 also thinks substantially more compensation  should  be paid by Lloyds  to compensate for all the 
financial and personal problems caused  by having  paid all this money  for the PPI.
Our adjudicator said what Lloyds had offered  and how it had paid the compensation was fair. Mr C1 
and Mr C2 still disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman to look at their complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been  brought in principle  by Mr C2, one of the partners, but in effect on behalf of 
both partners  of the business, NN, and both partners have signed up to the complaint.
Any issues or complaints Mr C2 has about products from Lloyds,  other than relating  to the PPI sold to 
cover the overdraft on the business current account, would need to be looked  at as separate 
complaints. These matters would first have to be considered and responded to by Lloyds  before this 
service can consider a complaint about other products or issues Mr C2 may have. 
The complaint about the PPI sold to cover the business  overdraft has been considered  by Lloyds, it 
has upheld that a mis-sale took place  and offered to pay compensation. In this decision I am looking  
at whether the compensation offered for the mis-sold PPI attached  to the business  current  account  is 
fair. 
calculation of the compensation
The purpose  of the compensation in a mis-sold PPI complaint is to put the consumer as far as 
possible in the positon they would  have  been  in if the PPI hadnt  been bought.  So I would  expect the 
bank to refund to a consumer all of the costs of the PPI that were paid for the policy and also any 
other losses that can be clearly shown  to have  been directly caused by the PPI. I would also expect 
Ref: DRN23090085the bank to pay some compensatory interest to compensate  for any time a consumer  was out of 
pocket for the costs of the PPI. 
In this complaint the PPI was taken out when the business account was opened in February  1998.  
The PPI was cancelled  in September 2014 and the last premium of £130.10 taken out of the account 
on 2 September 2014. Premiums were paid monthly to cover the repayment of the overdraft  in certain  
circumstances. As the premiums were  charged to the business  current  account, interest may have  
been paid on the premiums  in the same way it was charged on other spending on the account when 
the account was in its overdraft. 
In its offer of compensation Lloyds  is refunding all the premiums  ever charged for the PPI, between  
1998 and 2014, which total £19,338.65.  It has also included an amount of £5,097.50 for other losses 
caused on the account  because  of the PPI. It has then worked out the interest charged on these  
amounts which Lloyds  says is £43,025.13. This interest is at the rate as charged on the overdraft  
account.
Lloyds has also worked out that £5,999.17 should be paid to compensate Mr C1 and Mr C2 for any 
times they were out of pocket because of the PPI costs.
In August 2004 Mr C2 made a claim  on the PPI policy following an accident. This paid a total of 
£8,833.34 in eight payments  to cover the claim.  Lloyds have deducted the total amount of this claim  
from the compensation. This is fair, as if the policy  had never been taken out Mr C2 wouldnt have 
been able to make the claim and this amount wouldnt  have been paid. 
I also note that in its calculation for the premiums and interest  Lloyds havent  actually made  any 
amendment for the period the claim  was being paid. So it has included a refund of all premiums and 
interest on them for this claim period,  when in fact Mr C1 and Mr C2 were benefiting  from credits to 
the account which would  have reduced the interest paid on the PPI costs. 
Taking all these factors into account I think what Lloyds has done to work out the PPI costs and the 
total compensation is fair. I think in view of the other spending on the account  and the interest this 
would have caused, plus the period  of the claim being paid, that the interest Lloyds says was caused 
by the PPI and some  of the charges, is generous as it is refunding a large proportion  of the interest 
ever charged  on the account. 
So I am satisfied, based on what I have seen so far, that the offer amount of £64,627.11 is fair.
consequential loss issues 
Ive also considered the other points and issues Mr C2 has raised to consider  if any additional loss 
may have been directly caused by the PPI.
Mr C2 has said that he raised  the question of whether  there was PPI on the business  current account 
with Lloyds  in 2012 and was told by letter at this time that there was no PPI associated with the 
account. Mr C2 hasnt been able to provide any correspondence from Lloyds to show this happened. 
Mr C2 argues that if Lloyds  had correctly agreed the PPI was mis-sold in 2012 and the PPI 
compensation had been paid then, this would have avoided the financial difficulties of the business in 
2016 and also prevented his personal  bankruptcy.
Lloyds says it has no records of any concerns or questions being  raised  in 2012 about  the PPI on the 
current account overdraft. Lloyds has said that in 2012 it was contacted  by a third party  and had some 
correspondence about Mr C2s personal mortgage and asked about  any PPI on that account. That 
account is nothing to do with the business current account overdraft  and the PPI associated  with that. 
Lloyds says it records show  the first contact made about PPI with the business account was in late 
2017.
Ref: DRN23090086So I have seen no evidence to show that a PPI complaint was raised in 2012 regarding the business 
account overdraft. The records I have seen from Lloyds of meetings about  the business account 
make no reference to such a complaint. There are some  comments  about  the insurance  claim 
following Mr C2s  accident in 2004 on these notes but no other reference to the insurance.  Mr C2 has 
said he didnt realise he had PPI on the business account; this is despite the fact he made a claim in 
2004/2005. 
Mr C2 has also indicated he was put under pressure  in 2012 to take out a loan to clear a substantial 
part of the overdraft, so he took out a loan of £50,000 secured on his property.  In fact the records Ive 
seen from Lloyds suggest  the business  overdraft  and the fact it was unsecured lending  had been  an 
issue since 2005/06 when  the overdraft limit was increased to £75,000, initially  for a temporary period. 
I note from 2006 to 2008  the bank records indicate alternative funding for this overdraft, by way of 
some form of secure funding, was discussed regularly  with Mr C1 and Mr C2 and in 2008  a loan 
quote for £50,000 was provided. But Mr C1 and Mr C2 said they wanted to retain the overdraft but 
would reduce  this substantially over the next few months. This discussion about  securing the 
overdraft continues  until 2012 when a secured loan was eventually taken out. Although there is in 
2012 also an indication  this loan was also in part the result of wanting  to expand the business  
activities. It seems  the overdraft  remained  at £50,000, although  was later increased again and this 
was in addition to the loan that was taken out.
This was all some  years ago and it is possible  Mr C2 has confused the issue raised about  his 
personal accounts  and the business account having PPI. He possibly  also may not fully recall the 
request of Lloyds to secure the borrowings rather than retain the overdraft over a number of years. So 
Im not persuaded  that the £50,000 loan was caused directly by the PPI costs.
But even if Lloyds had made a mistake  in 2012 and told Mr C2 that there was no PPI on the business  
current account, as Mr C2 suggests, I dont  think it would  have made any difference  to the financial 
problems that occurred in 2016 and Mr C2s personal bankruptcy. 
I say this because:-
The compensation  that would have been due in 2012, using Lloyds calculation approach, 
would have  provided  substantially less compensation. From  the calculations Ive seen  the 
total compensation in 2012 may have possibly been around half of the total calculated in 2018 
in total. This is because fewer premiums would have been  paid, so less interest paid on them  
and less compensatory interest would have been due for being  out of pocket.
Lloyds appears to have requested Mr C1 and Mr C2 to secure the borrowing  for many years.  
So I dont think the 2012  loan was related to paying for PPI each month but was caused by 
the business issues  and unsecured financing over many years.
The cost of the PPI was charged monthly and not in a lump  sum. So if no PPI had ever been 
taken out the business wouldnt have had the lump  sum in 2012. It would have just paid 
around £130 per month less for the PPI and reduced the monthly overdraft by this amount 
plus a little interest each month.
I dont  think being paid any compensation  in 2012 for the business account  PPI would have 
prevented Mr C2s personal bankruptcy in 2016. The PPI was cancelled and no further 
premiums paid after September  2014. 
As Mr C2 had been  made personally  bankrupt in 2016 then Lloyds would pay any 
compensation due to him as a partner,  to whoever it was agreed would get any assets as 
required under his personal bankruptcy. 
Ref: DRN23090087Overall having  considered  all the information available  about  the PPI on the business  current  account 
overdraft, Im not satisfied this PPI directly  caused the financial problems  of the business  or the 
personal financial  issues of Mr C2. The PPI payments ended  in 2014 and so added  nothing to the 
overdraft balance  after that time. So I am not satisfied that the PPI caused any consequential losses 
as Mr C2 has suggested.
Mr C2 has also recently provided comment about the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) Regulations 
and the fact he feels  Lloyds  hasnt complied with these.  This service is here to try to informally resolve 
issues between consumers and business about specific  complaints. Whilst  we take into account the 
requirements of the regulations, if Mr C2 feels Lloyds  is in breach of regulations that would be an 
issue for the FCA not this service.
I am issuing this provisional decision to give the parties a final opportunity to provide any additional 
information or evidence regarding the PPI and how it may have directly caused any consequential 
loss. 
I appreciate Mr C2 feels that it is essential  that he has all the information  from 2012 about  his request 
regarding the mis-sale complaint he says he raised  for the business  account. And he also says he 
thinks Lloyds was dishonest in the information it provided  about  there being no PPI when  he raised 
the issue  in 2012.
I havent seen anything from either party to show and information  about  the PPI was discussed  and a 
letter sent in 2012 saying there was no PPI on the account. Also as Mr C2 had made  a claim a few 
years before I would have  thought  he would raise this with Lloyds at the time if it had said there was 
no PPI.
And in any event, as Ive explained above,  I cannot see that if this PPI complaint had been settled in 
2012 it would have made any difference to the eventual financial problems that occurred  in 2016. So I 
can see no purpose in delaying this complaint unnecessarily. 
Mr C2s most recent correspondence indicates he may have a meeting  with Lloyds about  some 
matters very shortly. If this provides any new evidence  related to the PPI on the business current 
account overdraft, then this can be submitted and I shall consider it before issuing my final decision in 
this matter.
I understand Lloyds had paid the compensation, sending 50% to Mr C1 and the other 50% to the 
trustee in bankruptcy  of Mr C2. If Mr C2 has any issues about the payment to his trustee he would 
need to take this up with the trustee.
In summary I think,  based  on what I have seen so far, that the compensation offered and paid by 
Lloyds to settle  this complaint is fair. 
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further information provided by either party by the date given at the start of this 
decision, Im intending to say that the compensation offered and paid by Lloyds Bank PLC of 
£64,627.11 is fair. 
I also think  how Lloyds Bank PLC has paid the compensation is fair and Im not going  to tell the 
business to do anything further. 
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2309008