K820x#14Complaint
Mr K complains that Al Rayan Bank PLC made an unexpected call to him on the date that he 
was expecting his fixed term deposit to mature, causing him concern  over receipt of the 
payment.
Background
Mr K had a Fixed  Term Deposit account  with Al Rayan Bank PLC that was due to mature on 
19 March 2019.
Mr K called Al Rayan  Bank PLC on 11 February  2019 following receipt of a letter requesting  
instructions on what to do with the account  balance on maturity.  I listened to this call. Its 
clear that Mr K provided the account details that he wished the money to be transferred  to.
Mr K phoned  Al Rayan  Bank PLC a further 2 times  (on 5 and 18 March)  in order to ensure 
that the money went into his nominated account.
On 19 March when  the investment matured, Mr K was called by Al Rayan Bank PLC. He 
was not expecting a call so did not answer  their security questions over concerns of fraud.
Al Rayan  Bank PLC still made  the payment to Mr Ks correctly nominated account on 
19 March. Al Rayan Bank PLC explained that its their internal procedure for high value 
sums to make  a call on the day, to make a last check on payment details. In this case they 
were not able to do so, but the payment  still went ahead on the same business  day that it 
was due. Al Rayan  Bank PLC acknowledged  that Mr K had not been made aware that a call 
would have been made on maturity  of the investment, which  would have managed Mr Ks 
expectations better. They remained  satisfied  that there was not a delay in sending  the 
payment, so did not uphold the complaint.
Mr K remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Al Rayan  Bank  PLC were  wrong in not informing Mr K that he may
have been called on the date of maturity, and spoke  to him on 3 different occasions where
they could have told him this. The investigator  acknowledged that Mr K had suffered no
financial loss as a result but considered  that the inconvenience he had been caused
warranted £75 in compensation.
Al Rayan  Bank PLC didnt agree and this matter  has been referred for an ombudsman 
decision.
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Mr K acted promptly  and responsibly  in contacting  the bank to provide instructions for the 
maturity of the fixed term deposit. He followed this up with two further calls confirming the 
details with Al Rayan  Bank PLC.
Al Rayan  Bank PLC could justifiably have made the payment to the account  details that they 
had on the date of maturity,  without any further checks  had they wished. What I have had to 
consider is whether the act of making  a call on the maturity date to confirm a final time was 
or wasnt a reasonable thing to do. Al Rayan Bank  PLC stated that the sum involved was 
Ref: DRN21429402significant, and explained that they were following their policies. I dont feel that attempting to 
make a final check was an unreasonable thing for the bank to have done. I note that they 
identified that Mr K could  have been made aware  of the possibility  of this, which would have  
prevented this complaint. Even so, I cannot  see that they were  obliged to have done  this, 
and I dont think it is fair to suggest that not doing so was wrong.  It would not have been fair 
on Mr K had the transfer of funds been delayed because Mr K did not take Al Rayan Bank 
PLCs call on the day. This was not the case though, and Mr K has suffered no financial loss.
That Mr K complained to Al Rayan Bank PLC to query  the reason for the call was 
understandable. In response I would have  expected  Al Rayan Bank PLC to have had a valid 
reason for having made the call and to have offered an explanation to Mr K for it. This has 
happened and in the circumstances I find their explanation to be reasonable.
Our investigator felt that the call from Al Rayan Bank PLC amounted to a service that was 
unfair or unreasonable. She identified there had been no loss to Mr K, but felt that he should 
be awarded £75 compensation  for the inconvenience caused.
I do not agree with this view. I do not see that the actions  of Al Rayan Bank PLC in this case 
have been unfair, or unreasonable. Because of this I do not feel that it is fair for me to 
instruct Al Rayan  Bank  PLC to pay compensation. I appreciate that Mr K will be disappointed 
with this, but I am minded  not to uphold  this complaint.
The response  to my provisional  decision 
Mr K responded, disappointed with my original  decision. He stated that he believed that the 
money was only transferred on the day as a result of extra  calls that he made. He believes 
that had he not made the calls the money would not have been  released. He also felt that 
the decision did not address the fact that the payment being late caused him a loss of 
interest.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has raised further points that I will address as follows: 
Mr K believes that had he not made  further calls himself the money would not have been 
transferred. I have based my decision on what happened and what seems on balance to 
have been likely. I cant say with any certainty what may have happened  had Mr K not made 
follow up calls. The key fact is that the transfer occurred on exactly  the date it was supposed 
to so I dont feel that I can conclude, in all fairness, that it was only because of calls that 
Mr K made. Moreover, I explained in my provisional  decision  that I didnt think  
Al Rayan  Bank PLC phoning Mr K on the date of the transfer was an unreasonable  thing to 
have done. Mr K could  have gone through security questions with them  and he would  not 
have needed to make any follow up calls.
Mr K feels  the issue of his potential  lost interest was not addressed.  In this he is touching 
upon what he felt were consequences  of Al Rayan  Bank PLCs  actions. In considering a 
complaint the first thing I need to do is determine what  happened  and decide whether a 
business did anything  wrong. Only where I feel that something has gone wrong, would I then 
consider what needs to happen to put things right. Because I dont think that Mr K was 
Ref: DRN21429403treated unfairly  in this case,  it follows  that I havent considered  any possible implications of 
what Al Rayan Bank PLC did.
I understand that Mr K is disappointed with this decision, but for the reasons  given  I dont 
think that Al Rayan Bank PLC did anything unfair or unreasonable. For the reasons above  I 
do not uphold  this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2142940