K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited (MBFS) charged him for 
damage to his car at the end of a Hire Purchas  Agreement that he didnt cause. He would  
like charges for damage and additional  mileage  waived.
background 
Mr B says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement  with MBFS in September  2016.  He says 
the car was collected at the end of the hire period on 26 September 2018. And inspected  on 
10 October 2018 after which he was charged  £331.80 for excess  days of hire, £426.17 for 
excess mileage and £380 for damage to the car. 
Mr B said he wasnt disputing  the excess mileage charge.
He says the damage to the car was made up of £25 for a missing  V document, £85 for a 
gouge of up to 2mm on the left hand  rear wheel, £85 for a gouge  of up to 2mm inn the right 
hand front wheel and £210 for a scratch on the bumper.
Mr B said he didnt  feel these charges were fair as he had not caused the damage. He was 
also not happy at the delays in the car being collected.
In light of problems  with collecting the vehicle  MBFS agreed to waive  £300  of the excess  hire 
charge and the £25 missing document charge as a gesture of goodwill.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint. She felt it was fair that the remaining amount of 
excess hire charge (£31.80 ) should  be waived as the car had been available  to collect but 
the agent had failed  to collect  it on the agreed date
On the basis of photographic evidence she found  the scratch  on the front bumper wasnt  
there when  Mr Bs car was collected and so felt that charge (£210) should be waived.
She didnt  feel it was clear  that there were two gouges on the car. She felt these could have  
been minor  damage  of less than 25mm  so on this basis  felt the two charges of £85 should 
be waived.
She recommended that MBFS:-
-Remove the remaining excess day charge of £31.80 in additional to the £300 
reduction it had already offered.
-Remove the two £85 charges for gouges to the wheels
-Remove the £210 charge for damage to the bumper
MBFS accepted this view but Mr B didnt. 
Mr B said although he accepted  the redress our adjudicator  suggested he felt that MBFS 
should apologise to him. And that there should be some redress  such as a fine to prevent  
MBFS treating other customers  in a similar way.
Ref: DRN20752242Our adjudicator explained that we look at individual complaints not the wider aspect of how 
businesses interact with its customer base. She gave Mr B details of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) should he wish to raise  any concerns with that organisation.
Mr B also asked that consideration be given to compensating  him for the inconvenience. He 
said he had stayed at home for his car to be collected for inspection on 26 September  2019 
but the car hadnt been collected on that day. He also said that he had been charged and 
chased for damage charges that he wasnt responsible for. And was still continuing to be 
contacted by MBFS.
Our investigator considered these points. She felt that the failed attempts at collection  and 
inspection resulted in Mr B having separate collection and inspection  dates leading to the 
charge for damage. She did feel that Mr B had been inconvenienced and felt it was fair that 
in addition to the redress that MBFS had agreed to that it should  also pay £100 for distress 
and inconvenience
MBFS didnt accept this view. It didnt feel that compensation was appropriate as it felt that 
the amounts it had waived to date were  sufficient compensation.
Our adjudicator considered comments from both parties  in relation to distress  and 
inconvenience compensation.
She found there had been failings  and mistakes in the inspection and collection process. But 
felt that, although  she accepted this would have  caused Mr B some  distress and 
inconvenience, that the amount that MBFS had agreed to waive was more than any distress 
and inconvenience  payment she would  recommend.
She reiterated her redress which MBFSs had agreed to offer (as detailed below) that she 
felt was fair.
-Remove the remaining excess day charge of £31.80 in additional to the £300 
reduction it had already offered.
-Remove the two £85 charges for gouges to the wheels
-Remove the £210 charge for damage to the bumper
MBFS accepted this but Mr B didnt.
Mr B said that as the car was due to be returned  on 3 September  2018. He disagreed  that 
the £331 for excess  hire was his liability as the car was available  to collect from 7 September 
2018. At best he felt he was liable for three days extra hire (3-6/9/2018) which  equated to 
£31.80. 
He didnt believe this amount covered the distress and inconvenience of staying at home  
twice for the car to be collected, numerous phone calls, unfair  costs  and poor service.  
Additionally he said he had been  harassed  by letters demanding payment  whilst his 
complaint was being investigated. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN20752243Mr B feels  strongly about this so I realise  he is going  to be disappointed  as Ive reached  the 
same conclusion as our adjudicator.
As I understand it when Mr B first complained to us he wanted  MBFS to waive the damage  
and addition hire charges  made. Partly through  its own offer and partly  as a result  of our 
adjudicators input MBFS has agreed to do that.
So the only outstanding issue seems to be if it is reasonable  for MBFS to pay compensation 
for distress and inconvenience  to Mr B. And if so what  amount.
MBFS said when it responded to Mr Bs complaint it waived  £300 of the £331.80 charge for 
additional miles to. It said this was to reflect  the inconvenience of the failed collection and 
overall experience.
Mr B doesnt  feel this is fair. He said the car was due to be returned on 3 September  2018 
and was available to collect from him from 7 September  2018. So he doesnt feel he should 
have been charged more  than 3 days additional  hire. Which at a cost of £31.80 he feels is 
insufficient compensation for the distress and inconvenience to him.
Ive looked at the timelines I have been  given. From that it seems Mr M cancelled two 
collection appointments himself. One due to an emergency and the second as there was 
delay in getting his new car.  These  arranged  collection dates were in August 2018  so in 
advance of the contract ending.
I accept Mr B had good reasons to rearrange  the collection.  And that, as he has said, the car 
was available  for collection from 7 September 2018 but couldnt be collected until 17 
September 2018. This was then further delayed by the collection agent  to 26 September 
2018.
But had Mr B not cancelled the first two appointments it could be that his car would have 
been collected within the contract hire period. So in fairness to MBFS I think some  of the 
overall delay was due to Mr B.
Notwithstanding that I think it is fair to refund the full cost of the additional  hire as I think  the 
main delay in collecting  the car was down to MBFS not Mr B.
Mr B has made a number  of other  points  in relation to compensation. He said he had to 
make numerous phone calls. We asked MBFS about  this and it said its collection agent  
disputed this. I accept  Mr B must have made a number of phone calls  to rearrange 
collection times and to find why his car hadnt been  collected on 17 September 2018. But 
some of these calls were for his convenience  i.e. to rearrange collection to suit him.
Mr B has also said he continued to be contacted by MBFS about  his outstanding payments 
whilst his complaint was with us. I can see our adjudicator explained  that we can ask 
businesses to put such processes on hold whilst we investigate. But we cant force them  to 
do that.  I believe MBFS did do this and although  that might have taken some time to take 
effect it didnt have to do this. It was within its rights to continue  to pursue outstanding 
payments if it wished.
When things go wrong we acknowledge here will be a degree  of inconvenience involved for 
consumers - in making phone calls for example but we dont automatically award 
Ref: DRN20752244compensation for this. We look at the overall situation and what  the business  has done to 
put things right. I think MBFS  has acted fairly  it has fully refunded all of the payments Mr B 
requested. And I dont  feel the level of inconvenience to Mr B is sufficient for me to say it is 
reasonable to expect  it to make any further payment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited should:-
-Remove the remaining excess day charge of £31.80 (in addition to the £300  
reduction it had already offered).
-Remove the two £85 charges for gouges to the wheels
-Remove the £210 charge for damage to the bumper
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2075224