K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that Sanlam Life & Pensions  UK Limited  mis-sold  her a long-term and 
inflexible savings plan.  
The complaint has been brought by a representative  who Ill refer to as T
background
In 1990 Ms L was advised to set up a savings plan by a firm that Sanlam has since  acquired 
liability for. She was 21 years old at the time and its recorded that she wanted to save a 
small amount on a monthly  basis from her salary of £5,000 per year. The plan was invested  
in a managed  fund with the premiums  of £20 per month being payable  until 2034.
Ms L surrendered the plan in 2006 and received about £4,400. 
T complained to Sanlam  in 2018  saying  the plan had been mis-sold. They said there wasnt  
anything to show Ms L required a long-term  savings plan. And, given there was a strong 
likelihood her circumstances  would change over the years, they didnt think such an 
inflexible plan shouldve been  recommended. T also added that there  wasnt anything to 
show Ms L had adequate  deposit-based emergency funds available to support this type of 
plan being recommended.
Sanlam said Ms Ls complaint had been raised  too late and so didnt look in to it.
The matter  was referred to our service and, in August  2019,  one of our ombudsmen  decided 
Ms Ls complaint was one that our service could consider.
Our investigator subsequently  looked in to the complaint  but she didnt think  the savings plan 
had been mis-sold. She explained the records show Ms L had an intention  to save  and that 
the £20 per month seemed  affordable  to her. She also thought it was reasonable for the 
savings plan to be set up as, while it was designed  for the long term, it also offered Ms L the 
flexibility of accessing  the funds at any time  as well as the option of taking a six month  
break in premium payments. So, she didnt think any lack of emergency funds meant the 
savings plan was unsuitable for Ms L as it wasnt as inflexible as T alleged.
Our investigator also said that the application  form Ms L signed confirms  she received the 
savings programme brochure which explains how the policy  works.  So she ought to have 
read and understood this. 
T disagreed  and so the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to same  
conclusions as the investigator and for largely  the same reasons. Ill explain why.
There is limited  information available to confirm Ms Ls circumstances at the time of sale or 
why the savings plan was recommended to her. But, given it is recorded  that Ms L wanted  to 
save a small amount each  month,  the amount  of £20 doesnt seem unreasonable. And as she 
paid the premiums up until the plan was surrendered in 2006, I dont think there  seems  to have 
been any affordability concerns when it was set up or throughout the duration of the plan. 
Ref: DRN21151762T however  argues that it wasnt appropriate for the plan to be set up when  Ms L didnt have  any 
emergency savings.  Although having funds available  on deposit will likely be a consideration 
when financial advice  is provided, Ive not seen anything to show what  funds Ms L had available 
at that time. I therefore cant be sure she was left without any readily  accessible funds. But in 
any event, the savings plan allowed Ms L to suspend premium payments for up to six months if 
needed. This meant if Ms L did experience any financial difficulties  then shed be able to 
maintain the plan without paying the premiums for a short period of time.
As the plan was sold about 30 years ago, I cant be sure what was discussed between  Ms L 
and the adviser.  But the application  form Ms L signed confirms she received the Savings 
Programme brochure. This explains the plan was designed to grow  steadily with the full 
benefit and worth being realised after about  25 years. Im therefore satisfied Ms L ought  to 
have understood  this plan was set up for the long term.
I dont think Ms Ls age prevented her from making plans to save for the long term. And 
although the savings plan allowed premiums  payable up until 2034, Ms L could  also access  
the funds  as she did in 2006  at any time. The Savings Programme brochure gave 
examples for what the funds could be used  for. This included, amongst  others,  things such  
as the cost of coping with a family emergency,  an unexpected loss of income,  a new car or 
home improvements. The purpose of the plan wasnt therefore exclusively for those wanting  
to invest for 25 years  or longer.
I acknowledge Ts point  that its likely the plan wouldnt have provided a significant return, if 
any, in the first 18 months. But this isnt uncommon  with these types  of plans as set up 
charges are often applied  by the provider  at the front end of the contract. And, as Ive already 
established, the plan was set up for the longer term and Ms L ought to have understood this. 
So if Ms Ls intentions  werent for the longer term, then I think  its reasonable for her to have 
questioned this at the time.  Ive not seen anything  to show  this happened.
T has also questioned the flexibility  of the plan as they say there  wasnt any likelihood of it 
breaking even  in the first seven to eight  years. While  there would  be a period of time in 
which the plan value wouldnt exceed  the premiums paid, this was dependent on future 
premiums and investment  growth. Again, this isnt uncommon for a plan that is set up for the 
long term but Ms L had the option  of accessing  the funds sooner if she needed.
Ms Ls saving plan was invested in a managed fund. I havent seen anything to show  her 
attitude to risk was assessed at the time.  But it doesnt seem unreasonable  for a person in 
their early  twenties to be willing to take a degree  of risk with the hope of making  long term 
investment growth.  And so, based on the information available to me, Im not persuaded the 
fund choice was unsuitable for Ms L.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2115176