K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked  a number of transactions  he 
tried to make on his credit card despite the fact he contacted them to confirm the payments 
were genuine.
background
Mr M attempted  to make a purchase online for £499.99 using his NatWest  credit card at just 
after 8pm one evening.  Earlier that same day, hed made a £300  payment on his card to a 
different merchant.
He received an automated call to ask him to confirm that hed attempted to use his card.  
Thinking that call may not have been genuine, he called NatWest  to discuss.
They pointed out the payment had been  blocked because it had raised a security  flag. The 
operator was satisfied she was talking to Mr M and that the payment  was genuine, so she 
removed the block and suggested Mr M try again.
He did so, but again the payment was blocked.  He also tried to make  a further purchase that 
evening which was blocked. And because  he couldnt use the card from that point on, he 
was inconvenienced in his travel  home  that evening.
Mr M spoke  to NatWest first thing  the next day and the £499.99 transaction was successfully 
processed. Mr M was unhappy that he may have missed out on a promotional  offer which 
ended the previous evening.
Mr M complained to NatWest about the blocked payments and the loss of the use of his 
credit card that evening.  He was also concerned hed been told by NatWest staff that the 
security on his card could be lowered given  the difficulties hed experienced.
NatWest said theyd  done nothing wrong and had acted in accordance with their security  
procedures. But they credited £35 to Mr Ms account  to recognise the inconvenience hed 
experienced on the evening in question.
Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome and complained to us. He said he wasnt interested  in 
more compensation  but wanted  an explanation of how these events had come about and 
didnt want other customers to have the same experience.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ms frustration about  what happened.  It must have been annoying to find his 
credit card had been blocked as a result  of genuine  transactions he was trying to make.
Ref: DRN29207582However, theres no suggestion  here that NatWest did anything other than follow their 
standard security  procedures. There was no human intervention at play to bring  about the 
blocked transactions. They were  brought about  by the automatic algorithms NatWest  apply 
to all transactions. So I cant say NatWest  have unfairly or unreasonably dealt with Mr M in a 
different way to any other customer.
I can see why Mr M was particularly concerned that the second attempt to perform the 
transaction was blocked  after hed spoken to NatWest and been told the block  had been 
removed. 
But NatWest  have  pointed  out that the second  transaction was blocked  by a different,  high 
level, automatic process. So, I cant say that the operator who spoke to Mr M knowingly 
misled him at the time.  She wasnt to know there was an additional process which would  kick 
in to block the payment after shed removed the initial block. 
I dont think anyone could  reasonably argue that banks shouldnt have robust security 
procedures in place  to guard against  credit  card fraud. Its also clear  that given the volume 
and speed of transactions, these processes need to rely on an automatic element.
Sometimes, this will cause  a degree  of inconvenience to a genuine customer,  but I dont 
think thats an unreasonable  price  to pay. And in any case, our role is to look at whether 
Mr M has been treated  unfairly in this case,  not to ask NatWest  or other businesses  to 
change the nature of their security  processes.
I appreciate Mr Ms very reasonable position  on his complaint.  Hes clearly concerned about 
other customers finding themselves in a similar  situation in future   and hes been very clear 
that he doesnt want further compensation  over and above that already provided.
However, I dont think Mr M can expect NatWest to provide a forensic explanation of why his 
attempted transactions were  turned  down  on the evening in question   which is what he 
seems to want. 
I can understand that Mr M might want to be able to see for himself  whether the processes  
and criteria used to block his transactions are justifiable. But he cant reasonably  expect 
NatWest to disclose  to members of the public how their credit  card security algorithms work. 
If that became public knowledge it would clearly  undermine security and facilitate credit  card 
fraud.
I understand NatWest  have paid further compensation to Mr M for telling him  wrongly  
that the security  checks on his credit card account might be lowered. Given that Mr M 
hasnt suffered any material loss because of this misinformation, I dont  think thats 
unreasonable.
So, in summary,  I dont think NatWest did anything wrong  when they blocked Mr Ms 
transactions. As soon as they were able to speak to him the following say, they ensured the 
transaction went through. 
Theyve fairly compensated Mr M for the misleading  information they gave him about the 
level of security on his credit account.  And Im satisfied theyre justified in not explaining to 
Mr M the precise criteria their security  checks apply to requested transactions.
Ref: DRN29207583my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2920758