K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that the personal  pension he holds with Phoenix Life Limited was mis-
sold. He says he wasnt made aware  of the charges and he believes these were  excessive.
background
Mr R took out an Abbey  Life personal  pension in November 1994, contributing £30 a month. 
At the time he was self-employed and so didnt have access  to a pension through an 
employer. The responsibility  for this sale now lies with Phoenix.  
Mr R complained to Phoenix in January  2018.  Phoenix reviewed the complaint but it didnt 
think it had done  anything wrong in terms of the charges. It said that these  had been  detailed 
in the policy  booklet, a copy of which Mr R had been  provided  with at the time of the sale.  
However, having reviewed matters  Phoenix  did think that Mr Rs plan had been invested in a 
fund that didnt match his risk profile. Hed been wholly invested  in the International Fund,  
which was suitable  for an adventurous investor.  However, it considered Mr R to be a 
balanced investor. So, it offered to reconstruct Mr Rs plan as if it had always been invested 
in the Managed Fund. This had the effect of increasing the fund value from £9,687.38 to 
£9,940.32.  Phoenix  also confirmed  that another department would  be in touch with a full 
breakdown of the charges  on Mr Rs plan, as hed requested. 
Mr R didnt accept Phoenixs  findings so he referred  his complaint to this service for 
consideration. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint. Initially she was of the opinion  that the 
charges hadnt  been made  clear  so she upheld the complaint and awarded compensation to 
Mr R. However,  Phoenix didnt accept the adjudicators opinion. It said that the charges had 
been made clear  at the outset. The adjudicator reviewed matters  again and advised Mr R 
that:
although the fees hadnt been fully explained in the policy terms, its common for 
charges to be applied to a pension. So, Phoenix  hasnt done anything  wrong in this 
regard. 
the charges  were  a significant proportion  of the monthly contribution of £30. But 
these included the cost of managing the pension,  which has increased with inflation 
since the pension  was taken out in 1994.  But Mr Rs monthly contribution remained 
at £30. So the proportion of the £30 contribution being taken by fees increased over 
time.
the fees were  broadly in line with other  providers so Mr R wouldnt have necessarily 
been better off if hed taken a pension with another provider. 
Mr R didnt accept the adjudicators findings so the matter has been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having one so, I agree with the 
conclusion the adjudicator  reached and for mostly the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN26968182I think its important to explain that the adviser that sold this plan at Abbey Life was not an 
independent financial  adviser, they were tied to Abbey  Life and only able to sell and provide 
advice on Abbey Life products. This is important because  it means  they werent able to 
search the market  to get the best deal for Mr R. 
The fact find completed  at the time of the sale recorded that Mr Rs objective was to save 
towards his retirement,  with the aim of retiring at 50. As Mr R was self-employed  at the time, 
he wouldnt  have had access to a pension through an employer so the advice to take out a 
personal pension  met this objective.   And it appears  the adviser recommended  Mr R 
contribute £30 per month  as this was what was affordable at that time. However, as Mr R 
didnt pay an ongoing adviser fee to Phoenix, it wasnt  required  to review Mr Rs pension 
arrangement after it was initially set up. So it was Mr Rs responsibility to seek  advice if he 
wanted his pension planning to be reviewed.   
Ive considered the product literature  that Phoenix  says wouldve been provided  to Mr R 
when the plan was sold. This does explain that charges  apply but I do agree  with the 
adjudicator that this couldve been clearer. Notwithstanding this, the charges arent 
disproportionate to what other providers were  charging at that time.  So I dont think  Mr R has 
been disadvantaged by these charges  not being  clearly explained.  And I dont think Phoenix  
has done anything  wrong by applying  the charges as they were set out in the terms. So Im 
not asking Phoenix  to refund any of the charges that were taken. 
The issue  seems to have  arisen because the terms of the policy  set out that certain charges 
will be increased in line with inflation. Whereas Mr R hasnt increased  his premiums since 
the plan started. This has meant that gradually over the years more  of his premium  has gone  
towards covering  the charges. And lower  investment returns,  which couldnt have been 
foreseen when  the plan was taken  out, have meant that the fund hasnt grown  as much as 
initially expected.  
I do agree  with Phoenix in that Mr R shouldnt have  been placed  in the international fund. So 
I think its offer to restructure the plan as if it had been invested fully in the managed fund,  
was fair as it better  reflects Mr Rs circumstances  at the time of the advice.  As I understand 
it, the restructuring  has already taken place.  So Phoenix doesnt need to do any more in this 
regard. However, if thats not the case,  I would expect Phoenix  to arrange for this to be 
completed. 
my final decision
For reasons explained,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 November 2020.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2696818