K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Yorkshire Building Society  (YBS)  mis-sold him a mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2000, which  he paid a monthly amount for.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.  
After doing so, Ive decided  that Mr Ms PPI policy wasnt  mis-sold   Ill explain why.
Mr M says he was intentionally mis-informed by YBSs representative. He says he was told 
that hed had PPI on his previous mortgage with YBS and that he should take a PPI policy  
on his new mortgage.  He now knows he didnt have PPI on his earlier  mortgage.
While I dont doubt Mr Ms recollection, I cant know how the policy was presented to Mr M or 
what YBS  representative  told him. But I can look at the information I do have from the time 
of the sale to see whether the policy was presented  as being optional.  
YBS has been able to give us copies of the Mortgage Payment Insurance Illustrations, the 
mortgage offer letter, the welcome letter and the Mortgage Payment Insurance  Certificate.  
There are two Mortgage Payment Insurance Illustrations both dated 3 August 2000.  One 
illustrates a £300  monthly benefit  at a cost of £7.97, and the other  illustrates a benefit  of 
£400 at a cost of £10.63.  Both were for unemployment cover  only. The Mortgage Payment 
Insurance application signed  by Mr M on the same  day indicates that a policy  with a benefit 
of £400 was chosen. (Mr M later increased the benefit amount to £700  in February 2007.)
Mr M was sent a mortgage offer letter  on 9 August 2000 which stated, You have  chosen  to 
take out mortgage payment insurance to cover  a monthly amount of £400.  And it asked Mr 
M to complete a Mortgage  Payment Insurance  application form. This was followed the next 
day by a welcome letter which gave details of the monthly cost of the mortgage to Mr M and 
which included the PPI cost. The subsequent Mortgage Payment Insurance Certificate  
detailed the monthly  cost and benefit,  the benefit  period  and the type of cover  
unemployment only.  
All of the above leads me to conclude that the policy was most likely presented as optional to 
Mr M  and he decided what level of cover he wanted and the amount of monthly benefit that 
was most appropriate for him. There was clearly a discussion  about  the amount of benefit  
Mr M wanted - £300 or £400. And Mr M had made  a decision about  what  type of cover   
unemployment only  rather than accident,  sickness and unemployment. 
Ref: DRN25005592As Ive said above,  while I cant know what was discussed or how the policy was presented 
to Mr M, the information and evidence I do have available suggests that Mr M was given a 
choice about the PPI and he decided to take it. 
Mr M cant recall  whether he was given  advice about  the policy but YBS has told us it did. 
This means  it assessed his circumstances and ability to meet his repayments and made a 
recommendation to take out the PPI. When a business recommends a consumer  take a 
policy  as in this case  the business has to make  sure it is right for their circumstances. 
And based on what Ive seen, I think it was. 
Mr M was employed when the policy was sold. The policy only provided cover if Mr M was 
made redundant, and this seems to have been right for him under  his particular 
circumstances as he has told us that he had a pre-existing  medical  condition  which  may 
have meant  he couldnt  have  claim  for any sickness benefits under the terms of the policy  for 
that illness. 
Mr M has said that he would receive  redundancy pay which  he could have relied  upon  and 
he was confident he would be re-employed  quickly because  of his professional qualification 
and the sector he worked in. But the policy would have paid out for 12 months,  and over and 
above any redundancy pay he may have received so any redundancy pay could have been 
used for other essential outgoings at what could have been  a difficult  time. 
Taking a mortgage  is a large and long-term financial commitment.  The penalties  for not 
making the monthly repayments are serious   even  as far as Mr M losing his home. And    
Mr M was solely responsible for the mortgage repayments so I think  the policy gave  Mr M a 
financial comfort he wouldnt otherwise have had. 
The cost of the policy was made clear to Mr M  in the illustrations and subsequent 
paperwork he received.  So, I think Mr M would have understood how much  he would need to 
pay for the policy, and I havent seen anything to show it was unaffordable. 
Id like to assure Mr M Ive taken his comments into account, including that he was told he 
had a PPI policy on his previous YBS mortgage so should take a further  policy.  But because  
of what Ive said his comments  dont change my mind, but I hope Mr M understands how Ive 
reached the conclusion that I have. 
YBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
When the policy was sold,  YBS expected  to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr M about that. 
Because YBS didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. But Yorkshire  
Building Society does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already done this. 
Ref: DRN25005593Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2500559