K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about Admiral  Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes their agents.
background
Mr Ms car was insured with Admiral. In October 2018, he was involved in an accident with 
another vehicle.  Mr Ms car suffered damage  to the right hand rear panel,  right hand side of 
the rear bumper and the rear right allow wheel.
Admiral had the car repaired but Mr M complained that the boot had an intermittent fault as it 
would open by itself. Mr M said he believed the fault was related to the accident as he 
bought the car new around  six months earlier and the problem wasnt present until after the 
accident.
After looking into the issue Admirals engineer said he couldnt find a fault with the boot. 
Admiral then got the main dealers garage to assess the car. After examining  the car they 
too couldnt find a fault.  Admiral didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint on the basis  that neither they 
nor the main  dealers  garage could find a fault. Admiral told Mr M that if he got engineering 
evidence himself that identified a problem,  then Admiral would look into it. Mr M didnt agree 
and felt that if Admiral  couldnt resolve  the problem they should treat the car as a total loss 
and pay him its pre-accident market value. Admiral  disagreed. Mr M didn't think that was fair 
so he brought  his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked into it. He felt that Admiral 
had dealt with Mr M fairly. As Mr M didnt agree with our adjudicator, his complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr M, but Im not going to uphold  his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr M has made a number  of detailed  points  and Ive considered  all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Admiral have  dealt  with Mr M in a fair and reasonable way.
I can understand why Mr M felt the problem with the boot was accident related. He bought 
the car new just six months or so before the accident and he said the problem only started 
after the accident. But both Admirals engineer and the main dealers engineer  examined  the 
car but neither found a fault.  Our adjudicator also contacted the main dealer garage  who 
provided him with their report  of the tests they carried  out.
Admiral said if there is a problem with the boot it would be covered by the manufacturers  
warranty. Admiral  also told Mr M that he would have to provide them  with engineering 
evidence confirming there was a fault before Admiral could do anything  about it. I think  
Admiral have been reasonable. I can understand Mr Ms frustration but two engineers, 
including one from the main dealer, have said they couldnt find a problem. So, I wont ask 
Admiral to do anything  further.  If Mr M does  get engineering evidence to prove there is a 
fault with the boot,  Admiral have said he should  let them know  and they will look into it and I 
Ref: DRN22305442think thats fair. And given Admiral havent  found a fault, I wouldnt expect them  to treat the 
car as a total loss. A car would only be deemed  a total loss if it was uneconomical to repair  
or if it suffered damage which meant it was dangerous to drive.
Finally, Mr M wanted Admiral to refer the car to a different branch of the main dealer for 
further analysis  and for Admiral to extend  the use of the courtesy car they gave him. Admiral 
refused because they felt they had done  what was necessary.  I understand Mr M didnt want 
to take his car back at which point Admiral told him unless he took his car back  and returned 
the courtesy car, he would be charged storage costs  for his car and for the use of the 
courtesy car. So, Mr M reluctantly took his car back and returned the courtesy  car. Given I 
think Admirals  actions  were reasonable and they were justified in returning  the car and 
taking back the courtesy  car, I dont think they did anything wrong by telling Mr M he would 
be charged for the storage  and for the use of the courtesy car.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.  
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2230544