K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited unfairly  turned 
down his claim for critical illness benefit. 
background
Mr P held a level term assurance policy with critical illness cover  with Legal and General 
from April 2014 to April 2019. The policy  provided  £210,000 worth of cover, payable if Mr P 
had died or been diagnosed with a listed critical illness during the policy term. 
Mr P was sadly  diagnosed with transitional  cell carcinoma,  a form of cancer that occurred in 
his kidney, in 2016. He required  surgery to remove his right kidney, ureter  and part of his 
bladder. Mr P made a claim under the policy, but it was declined by Legal  and General.  It 
said the evidence  didnt support that thered been  invasion  of tissue, as required by the 
policy terms and conditions. 
In September  2018 Mr P asked  Legal and General to reconsider his claim as hed become 
aware of a case in the press where a consumer with a similar form of cancer to him had a 
claim successfully paid after referring the matter  to our service. 
Legal and General reconsidered the claim but declined it again. It explained the evidence 
didnt show Mr Ps cancer had invaded  surrounding tissue, as was required by the policy  
definition of cancer. 
Mr P remained unhappy  so he referred the matter to our service for consideration.  
Our investigator considered the complaint  but didnt uphold it. He was satisfied the available 
medical evidence  didnt support that Mr Ps cancer  had spread into surrounding tissue,  so he 
was satisfied that Legal and General were entitled to turn down the claim.  He explained that 
while there may have  been similarities  between Mr Ps case and the one hed seen in the 
press, each  case is considered on its own merits and the evidence  in his case  didnt support 
he met the policy definition. 
Mr P remained dissatisfied so the matter has been  referred to me to reach a final decision. 
Mr P has raised a very similar complaint against  another insurer, which  Im also considering  
under a separate complaint. Given the facts and circumstances of the two complaints are 
almost identical I hope  Mr P will understand why there will be considerable overlap in my 
findings between  the two cases. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint for much the same reasons as the investigator.  I appreciate this is going  to come 
as serious disappointment  to Mr P, so Id like to explain  how Ive reached this conclusion.  
Firstly, Id like to say how sorry I am to hear of Mr Ps ill-health. Its clear from the evidence 
that hes been through a very difficult time, both having received his diagnosis and also 
undergoing significant surgery. I do hope  his health  has now improved.  
Ref: DRN26696732policy terms and conditions
The policy terms and conditions explain that for a claim  to be met, the policyholder must 
have been diagnosed with one of the listed critical illnesses. Cancer is specifically defined 
as: 
Cancer - excluding less advanced cases
Any malignant tumour positively diagnosed  with histological confirmation and characterised 
by the uncontrolled growth of malignant  cells and invasion of tissue []
For the above definition, the following are not covered:
 All cancers which  are histologically  classified as any of the following:
- pre-malignant;
- non-invasive;
- cancer in situ;
- having  either borderline malignancy; or
- having  low malignant potential []
The policy definition is clear that for a claim to be met there must be evidence that the 
tumour is both malignant and has invaded other tissue. Thats  to say the cancer has spread 
from its original  site to surrounding  tissue. No cover is provided for non-invasive cancers. 
While this definition may seem on the face of it restrictive, and potentially even unfair, 
Im satisfied it complies with industry  best practice at the time. No policy  can provide cover 
for all serious illnesses a person may experience  to do so would make policies like this 
prohibitively expensive.  So policies such as this provide  cover  for a number of the most  
serious forms of commonly suffered critical illnesses.  
Its not my role to seek to extend  the scope of these  policies. Instead I have to carefully  
consider the available  medical evidence alongside the policy  definition,  to decide  if 
Legal and General has reached a fair and reasonable  conclusion  in all the circumstances. 
Having carefully considered the available medical evidence,  Im satisfied that Mr Ps tumour 
did not meet  the policy definition of cancer.  Its clear that Mr P had a very large tumour that 
required extensive treatment to remove, but the evidence from his treating specialists and 
the histopathology report are clear  that the cancer  was non-invasive.  
The histopathology report  completed after Mr Ps surgery  confirmed there was no evidence 
of invasion. And after microscopic testing of the tumour, Mr Ps diagnosis was confirmed as 
non-invasive, Grade 2 papillary Transitional Cell Carcinoma. When Mr Ps consultant  
urological surgeon, who Ill call Dr N, was asked to confirm the staging of the cancer he 
stated it was TaN0M0.  From  my understanding, this once again indicates that there had 
been no invasion into other tissue.
Mr P has more  recently asked Dr N to comment on his diagnosis and whether the treatment 
was likely to be curative.  I note in his letter,  Dr N explains that Mr Ps tumour  was multi-focal, 
meaning there were  multiple tumours present which extended over a considerable area of 
the collecting system of his kidney. But he confirmed the tumour was proved to be a pTa 
grade 2. He explained With pTa  this is a pathological descriptor, which  described  the 
depth of invasion  into deeper layers  of the ureteric wall or kidney. As a pTa, whilst the 
tumour involves the urothelium, there is no actual disruption of its overall structure. The 
Ref: DRN26696733tumour was also grade 2, which is an intermediate gradeIn terms of tumour  stage,  this 
was obviously very favourable  given the lack of definite invasion. 
So while Dr N explains the extent of the tumour and the radical treatment  needed to treat it, 
hes confirmed that the tumour hadnt  invaded other  tissue, as the policy  definition  requires.  
Without evidence  that there has been  invasion of tissue, I cant say Legal  and General acted  
unfairly or unreasonably by declining the claim.   
I understand Mr P decided to pursue this complaint after he became aware, through  the 
media, that a case with similarities to his own had been upheld  by our service.  While I can 
understand this wouldve given Mr P reason to question whether his claim had been  
considered correctly in 2016. But as the investigator  has explained each case is considered 
on its own merit - and importantly for cases like this on the particular medical evidence. 
I cant comment specifically on the case Mr P has referred to, but as Ive explained  above  
Im satisfied that the medical evidence in this case doesnt support that he meets the policy 
definition of cancer. 
While I appreciate this will come  as a serious  disappointment to Mr P, I cant say Legal and 
General has acted unfairly or unreasonably  in its assessment of his claim or complaint, so 
Im not asking it to do anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.  
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2669673