K821x#15Complaint
Miss F complains that the car she acquired through a conditional  sale agreement with Close  
Brothers Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Background
In June 2018, Miss F acquired  a used car. She partly financed this acquisition by a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers.
The day after acquisition. Miss F experienced an issue with the car. She contacted  
the dealer to say the engine management  light (EML) had come on. She said the 
dealer agreed  to sort out the issue but after giving it four chances the issue hadnt 
been resolved.
Miss F then contacted  Close Brothers  and explained the issues  and the repairs that 
had taken place.  She said Close Brothers agreed  to cover the cost of the repair and 
said this could take place at Miss Fs suggested repairer. The repairing  garage  redid  
work that had previously  been undertaken by the dealer but there was still an issue.  
Miss F said that she contacted Close Brothers about  the outstanding issue  on 
numerous occasions and was then told the dealer would be in touch about the repair.  
Miss F said she wasnt happy  with this as she had already explained her concerns 
regarding the dealers previous repair work.  She said she didnt  hear from the dealer.
Miss F wants  to be able to reject  the car and get a refund.
Close Brothers said in its final response letter (January 2019) that repairs had been 
undertaken but issues remained.  It said that the dealer had agreed  to undertake the 
required repairs but said it had been unable to contact Miss F to arrange this.
Our investigator upheld this complaint.
Close Brothers didnt  agree. It said it should be given the opportunity to carry out the 
repairs that were agreed before Miss F stopped responding to it.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint as I came to a slightly  different  view 
regarding the redress. I concluded in summary:
Miss F experienced an issue with the car the day after acquisition. She contacted  the 
dealer and based on the information provided it appeared that it had opportunities to 
carry out repairs, but the issue wasnt  resolved. 
Close Brothers became involved and following  diagnostics undertaken in October 
2018, a repair was undertaken but the problem wasnt resolved. The issue was then 
identified as being with the turbo  electro  valve and vent pipe being partially blocked.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (CRA 2015),  if an issue is identified  within  the 
first 30 days  then,  under certain  circumstances, the consumer will be able to reject 
the car under the short  term right to reject. Although Miss F identified an issue  within 
this period, she initially accepted that repairs could  be attempted. 
Given when the issue first arose, I thought  it was more  likely than not due to a fault 
that was present at the point of supply. Repair attempts were carried  but the issue 
wasnt resolved. I thought Miss F had given Close Brothers enough opportunity  for 
repair and as this hadnt resolved the issue,  it was fair that she be allowed to reject  
the car. 
Ref: DRN23588972As a resolution to this complaint I thought that Close  Brothers should cancel Miss Fs 
agreement with nothing further owing and that her deposit should be refunded.  
Miss F had use of the car until May 2019,  but the MOT  wasnt  renewed at this time. I 
thought it would have been  reasonable for Miss F to have been allowed to reject  the 
car when she had previously asked  for a refund in March  2019 (before the MOT was 
due) and I thought  it reasonable that she wasnt held liable for the payments that fell 
due since she stopped having use of the car (May 2019).
Our investigator suggested that Miss F be refunded 20% of the payments  made due 
to impaired use. However, as Miss F had driven  around 7,000 miles by December 
2018, I found that she did have reasonable use of the car. I did agree  with our 
investigators recommendation that Miss F be paid compensation of £100  for the 
issue she experienced and inconvenience this caused.
Close Brothers responded to my provisional  decision. It again reiterated that it wanted the 
opportunity to address the issue with the blocked  turbo electro valve and pipe and said that if 
Miss F was open to an alternative offer it would ask her to book the car into her own garage 
with it covering the repair cost. It would then, as a gesture of goodwill, cover the cost of her 
MOT and repair costs and the instalments from May 2019  as recommended. 
It said that if Miss F wished to reject the car it had no further  points to add but asked for 
clarification regarding the repair costs it would be asked to cover.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F acquired  a car and financed  this in part through a conditional sale agreement. Under  
the regulations,  specifically  the CRA 2015,  Close Brothers can be held liable  if the car wasnt  
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  In this case  the car was around 11 years  old and 
had been driven  over 87,000 miles when  Miss F acquired it. Therefore, it would  be 
reasonable to expect  some wear and tear. However, Miss F experienced an issue  the day 
after acquisition.
Given when the issue arose, I accepted that it was due to a fault present  at the point  of 
supply. The issue arose within  the first 30 days  and so Miss F could have  rejected the car 
under the short term right to reject. However,  she accepted  repairs  and had this resolved the 
issue I would  have  thought this an acceptable  remedy. The repairs  werent successful, and 
the issue remained. Given Close Brothers  had been  given the opportunity to repair the car 
and this had failed to resolve the issues, I find it fair Miss F be allowed to reject the car.
As part of the redress, I said that Close Brothers should refund any repair  costs  (associated 
to the issues raised in this complaint) Miss F has incurred subject to evidence  being 
provided. Close Brothers asked for further  clarification of these costs  to prevent further 
issues arising after the final decision had been issued. Miss F has provided a copy  of an 
invoice for a diagnostics  report  (£59) and she has also mentioned the cost of having  her car 
towed to her new address  although she hasnt been  able to find the receipt. I think  that both 
of these costs should  be refunded (subject  to Miss F providing evidence of the towing cost). 
Ref: DRN23588973My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Close  Brothers Limited should:
1.cancel the conditional sale agreement with nothing further owing;
2.collect the car at no cost to Miss F;
3.refund  Miss F the deposit  amount  she paid - recorded as £1,000  in the agreement;
4.refund  the costs  she incurred due to the issues with the car. Based on the 
information provided by Miss F these costs  are: a diagnostic report and the cost of 
having the car towed to her new address. The invoice for the report  has been 
provided and if Miss F is able to provide evidence of the cost of the towing then this 
should also be refunded;
5.refund  any payments  Miss F has made from May 2019 from which  point Miss F 
hasnt had use of the car;
6.pay Miss F £100 compensation for the inconvenience she has been caused; and
7.remove any adverse information  regarding this agreement  from Miss Fs credit  file.
Items 3, 4 and 5 are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
If Close Brothers Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss F how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
Miss F a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2358897