K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) has not been  of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr B took receipt of a new car in September 2018. He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS.
When he took the car home he noticed a noisy rattle from the exhaust.  He called the 
dealership and it was agreed theyd attend to the problem. Mr B assumed they would fit a 
performance exhaust back box but they only fitted a standard one and Mr B said the 
connector clamps  looked unseemly.
BMWFS didnt uphold the complaint he made to them. They  said they were entitled to repair  
the car and that they didnt need  to provide the upgraded M performance  exhaust Mr B 
wanted. 
So Mr B referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  his view. He 
thought the car should have been repaired with the same exhaust  it was fitted with  an M 
performance exhaust. So he thought the repair BMWFS had completed was unsatisfactory 
and he therefore  thought  they should  allow Mr B to reject the car; terminate his agreement  
with them,  refund his deposit with interest  and pay him £100  compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  hed experienced.
BMWFS agreed  to replace the exhaust  with an M performance exhaust but Mr B rejected 
that offer and, as BMWFS  didnt agree to the adjudicators view the car should be rejected, it 
has been referred for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint BMWFS so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. This is a regulated  consumer credit  
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier  of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
Ref: DRN25333022standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr B. This was a 
brand new car and I wouldnt  expect it to have any faults.
Mr B reported the fault on his car within hours  of picking it up. I therefore think  its clear there 
was a fault with this car from the start and I dont think thats  disputed.
Ive read the email  trail between  Mr B and the dealership before the car was repaired. Its 
clear that Mr B expected an M performance exhaust  to be fitted and that he would be upset if 
a different one was supplied. Ive seen he referred  to other owners  whod had unsatisfactory  
repairs completed. So I dont think he accepted the resolution that was provided.
At that point Mr B had a short term right under  the relevant legislation to reject  the car if 
there was something  wrong with it. When the car was returned to him he again emailed to 
say the repair was unacceptable. Hed only had the car for ten days at that point and still 
had a short  term right to reject the vehicle. So as the repair was unacceptable I think  they 
should have allowed Mr B to reject  the car at that point.
And, even  if Im wrong  about  that, the relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity  
to repair  a fault that is present at the point of supply. I think  BMWFS  had that opportunity  in 
early September but Im not persuaded the repair is satisfactory as I think  the M 
performance car should have been fitted  with an M performance  exhaust,  or at least one that 
was acceptable  to the consumer. Its therefore  clear  to me that the repair  was not successful 
and in those circumstances Mr B should be allowed to reject the car and to terminate  his 
agreement with BMWFS. They should  return his deposit and add interest to the refund as 
Mr B has been deprived of that money  whilst  hes been funding an unsatisfactory car.
Mr B has clearly  been inconvenienced  by these matters. Hes had to return  the car to the 
dealership for repairs and to pursue a complaint through  this service when I think  it could 
have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances I think  BMWFS should pay him some 
compensation and I think £100 is about right.
Ref: DRN25333023my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
terminate the finance  agreement;
refund  Mr Bs deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr B £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this 
issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2533302