K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about J D Williams & Company Limited failing to make  her aware of an 
increase in interest rate on her catalogue  shopping account.  
background
In October  2018 Mrs M noticed an increase in the interest rate applied to her account so she 
contacted J D Williams  by letter. Mrs M received a letter in November 2018 from 
J D Williams but this mentioned Payment  Protection  Insurance. Because she was unhappy 
with the interest  rate increase and hadnt  received a satisfactory response Mrs M brought 
her complaint to this service. 
J D Williams told this service a letter was sent out in early 2014  to make Mrs M aware  of the 
interest rate change. And although  the APR was increased in 2015  the amount  of interest 
charged per month on the account remained the same. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint. He said he was satisfied J D Williams  had sent out 
notification of the interest rate change  which was in line with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement it had with Mrs M. Mrs M disagreed with the investigator. She said J D Williams 
are not fit for purpose and no advance notice  of the change  in interest rate was sent out. She 
also says J D Williamss website shows an APR of 24.99%  with no interest to be paid for a 
fixed period. 
 
So this complaint has now been  passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory, I have  to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more  likely than not to 
have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the wider  surrounding 
circumstances. 
Firstly Mrs M believes this service should decide  that J D Williams is not fit for purpose. But 
as a complaint  handling  body its not this services role to decide J D Williams isnt fit for 
purpose. This would  be the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. This service  is here to 
resolve individual complaints  between consumers and regulated businesses. 
What I need to consider here is whether J D Williams  has treated Mrs M unfairly and outside 
of its terms and conditions. Having done so, I dont think  it has. 
The terms and conditions  of the account allow J D Williams to increase the interest  rate 
provided it gives at least 21 days notice in writing. I can see that the interest  rate on Mrs Ms 
account was increased  in February 2014. And the annual percentage rate (APR) in 
July 2015. Although the APR did change in 2015 J D Williams says this didnt affect the 
monthly interest rate charged on the account.  And from the evidence  Ive seen Im satisfied  it 
didnt. 
J D Williams provided  a screen shot which shows a letter was sent to Mrs M telling  her about 
the interest rate increase in 2014.  Although  this doesnt mention the date the letter was sent 
Ref: DRN27230862Im satisfied - on balance  this was more likely than not sent out before the interest rate was 
increased. This is because there has only been one interest rate change which has affected  
the monthly payment on this account  since 2014.  So Im satisfied  again on balance  its in 
relation to the 2014 increase. Because of this Im unable to say that J D Williams has acted 
unfairly.
I appreciate that Mrs M says she didnt receive the letter. But Im satisfied it was sent. Its 
possible that the letter went missing in the post but if thats the case, I cant fairly hold 
J D Williams responsible for the failings of the postal system. 
I note that Mrs M continued to use her account  after the interest  rate and APR increase. 
Mrs M says she would have changed account if she had been made aware.  But I think its 
more than likely she would have  seen the interest and APR increase on her statements 
since 2014. And if she was unhappy she could have decided  to move  her account if she 
wished.
Mrs M has mentioned J D Williamss website shows a lower rate of interest which  includes a 
no interest rate period.  J D Williams says this is a standard rate of interest. And Mrs Ms 
account isnt on the standard rate of interest as the interest on its accounts  can vary. I dont 
think its unfair for accounts  to have different interest  rates  as long as J D Williams  has made 
any increases in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement. Nor is it unfair for 
businesses to allow for a period of no interest  to be charged on new accounts to attract new 
customers.
I accept the way J D Williams handled  the complaint would have been frustrating but Im not 
persuaded it has caused Mrs M any significant detriment or led to the wrong  outcome when 
considering the overall circumstances of this complaint.
Taking all of the available evidence into account,  I cant say that J D Williams has treated 
Mrs M unfairly.  The terms and conditions provide for the rate of interest to be increased  and 
Im satisfied Mrs M was sent the correct advance notice of the increase. Theres  no evidence 
to suggest that J D Williams has increased  the interest rate for a reason other than one of 
those set out in the terms and conditions. So Im not going  to ask J D Williams to take any 
further action.
If Mrs M is unhappy  with the interest rate on offer she is entitled to close her account. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2723086