K821x#15complaint
S, a limited  company has complained that Highway  Insurance Company Limited 
unreasonably refused  to deal with its claim under its fleet motor policy when one of its vans  
was stolen.
S is represented by its director Mr W. 
background
The van was locked  in a compound and was stolen overnight on 8 March 2017.  The metal 
gates were cut off the wall. And the police report confirmed  the van was stolen without the 
keys. Mr W confirmed he bought this van when he bought the business  in September 2015.
Mr W made a claim to Highway and it asked him for the keys.  He sent two keys to Highway. 
Its key expert said one could be the original but the other wasnt programmed to this van. Mr 
W found another  key, which  he gave to Highway, but he wasnt sure it was for this van. 
Highways key expert confirmed it wasnt.
Initially it thought  the van was recovered but instead it appears the cab of Ss van was fitted 
onto another vehicle  following the theft,  which  didnt  belong  to S. 
Mr W also thought Highway had undervalued  the van. 
Highway said it wasnt prepared to deal with the claim. So Mr W raised  a complaint and 
brought his complaint to us.
The adjudicator thought  Highway hadnt given cogent reasons as to why Ss claim fell 
outside the policy terms. Therefore, she thought it should deal with Ss claim.  She also 
thought the final valuation  of his van at £4,186 less the policy  excess was reasonable. She 
also thought whilst S isnt capable  of suffering distress and inconvenience, Mr W was and it 
should pay Mr W £250 compensation.  She further  thought Highway should  consider  Ss loss 
of income directly causing by this missing van from 2 August 2017 (subject to reasonable 
proof) when the revised  settlement was proposed to the date Highway finally  settled Ss 
claim. 
Highway didnt agree.  It said Mr W still has to produce the second  correct key as he stated 
he had two keys.  It felt consequently,  theres  been  a fraudulent attempt  to confirm both keys. 
It also disputed the loss of use given Mr W delayed in sending in the CCTV. Further, it noted 
the van was in any event up for sale at the time of the theft.
Following this Highway  said it sent the keys back to Mr W. But they failed to arrive.  
Eventually they were  found and Highway offered £100 compensation for this. We asked Mr 
W if he then had his own key report done and he confirmed he hadnt. 
As the matter remained unresolved, its been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding this 
complaint, Ill now explain  why. 
Ref: DRN26343162Its clear to me that the thieves knew what  they were doing,  given  they cut off the gates of 
the compound  from the wall. Theres no evidence that S or Mr W was involved in this. So 
obviously, Ss compound was thoroughly broken into. The CCTV footage however doesnt 
show the actual  theft of the van. The police report also confirms  the van was stolen without a 
key.
They only took one van, this one. That could be because it was the only van, they could start 
more easily  without the key given its age. The technology these days available  to take all 
sorts of vehicles is well reported in the media.
Whilst Mr W gave  Highway three keys, he believed had been used to start this van, its key 
expert believed  only one related to this van. That expert said the manufacturer  confirmed the 
van was sold with two keys and one non-remote  key known as the fleet key. He thought the 
second was unused. But he confirmed  these keys could be easily  copied  and cloned. And he 
thought the second  key wouldnt fit the same  lock as he said it wasnt programmed to the 
same vehicle. He doesnt explain why that is. But he also noted equipment  is being  used to 
add other  keys to the immobiliser to take similar vans. So in my view he left it open that with 
this equipment keys can be added to the immobiliser to take vans. Therefore, Im not 
persuaded this key expert adds anything  to Highways investigation in real terms.
Highway simply stalled  the investigation  of this claim by saying it wanted  the second  key Mr 
W said he had. Mr W though is adamant he sent in two keys, which were used for this van. 
As regards  the third key he sent, he wasnt sure it was one, which could have been used to 
drive this van. 
Highway however just failed  to make a decision on Ss claim, which I consider to be 
unreasonable. Its not reasonable in my view to simply not make a decision on a claim and 
either deal with it, or explain why the claim is refused  by virtue of a breach of the policy  
conditions. 
Therefore, I consider  Highway now needs to deal with Ss claim with a view to paying it. I 
agree with the adjudicator  that the negotiated valuation of Ss van in the sum of £4,186  less 
the policy excess is reasonable bearing in mind  the trade guides valuations.
Mr W said S has lost income as a result  of his claim not being paid given Ss business  is to 
hire out these vans. I consider Highway  should now consider this loss of income  subject to 
reasonable proof. And I agree with the adjudicator that its reasonable to consider this from 2 
August 2017 when  the revised  valuation of the van was proposed. 
S isnt entitled to any compensation  for Highways  poor handling if its claim. But I can see 
from the correspondence throughout that Mr W has certainly been put to considerable 
trouble and upset  given  Highways failures. Therefore in the very particular  circumstances of 
this complaint and the lack of an outcome, I think its reasonable that Highway pay Mr W 
£250 compensation.
Further Highway also told Mr W it had sent back the vans V5 and keys in November 2017. 
However, Mr W never received them.  Highway  later found it hadnt sent them  to him at all at 
the time and finally returned them coherently  to Mr W at S. It offered  £100 compensation for 
this, which  I consider reasonable. 
Ref: DRN26343163my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Highway  Insurance Company Limited  to do the following:
Deal with Ss claim with a view to paying  it. Interest of 8% simple  per year should be 
added from the date of the theft to the date it pays S.
Consider the loss of income as a result  of the theft subject to reasonable proof.
Pay Mr W £250 compensation given Highways  handling of the matter put him 
personally to considerable trouble and upset.
Pay Mr W the £100 compensation offered for the mix up with returning  the keys and 
the vans documents. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2634316