K820x#14complaint
Mr Q has complained that JD Williams & Company  Limited has treated him unfairly. Mr Q 
says he wasnt given  the appropriate notice  about an increase  in the interest  rate being 
charged on his catalogue  account. 
Background
Mr Q opened a shopping catalogue  account  with JD Williams in 2012. 
The interest rates associated with the account  subsequently increased. Mr Q says that JD 
Williams didnt notify him about  the increase and didnt give him an opportunity  to decline  it 
and cancel the credit agreement. He thinks JD Williams breached consumer  credit  
regulatory requirements about giving  notice to customers of any increase in interest  rates. 
Mr Q thinks he hasnt been treated fairly by JD Williams and he wants an apology  and 
compensation. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Qs complaint. Based on the evidence shed seen, 
she didn't think that JD Williams had acted  unfairly towards Mr Q. He didnt agree with this 
assessment and asked  for an Ombudsman to review  the matter.  So the complaint has been  
passed to me to resolve.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering complaints  about  consumer credit and shopping 
catalogue accounts on our website - including the key relevant rules,  guidance,  good  
industry practice and law. And Ive considered  this approach when deciding  Mr Qs 
complaint.
Given the time thats passed, there is limited information about what  happened at the time. 
But I have made  my decision based on the evidence that I have seen,  including what both 
Mr Q and JD Williams have said and any other evidence that has been  provided to us.
JD Williams was allowed under its credit agreement with Mr Q to vary the APR and interest 
rate at any time giving him 21 days notice.
From what  Ive seen from JD Williams records, the interest rate on goods charged  for Mr 
Qs account rose in February  2014. JD Williams has provided an itemised  breakdown of its 
transactions with Mr Q from 2012  to 2019.  This is a detailed list and brief description  of 
letters and statements sent, the type of payments made, items dispatched and charged and 
any other account adjustments. The list records that a statement and a letter regarding 
interest charged was sent to Mr Q in January 2013.  JD Williams  has also provided  its 
historic customer  contact  records which  show that in February 2014 Mr Q wanted to query  
the interest rates on his account. The records also note that a further  query was raised  about 
interest rates in early March and that Mr Q told JD Williams that he hadnt received the 
service charge increase letter. The records note that he was advised that this had been 
sent out in January and a copy  was then provided to him. I have looked carefully at these 
contact records and I see no reason to doubt their veracity.  
Ref: DRN24657782JD Williams has told us that it no longer  holds  a copy of the letter it says was sent to Mr Q 
about interest rate changes. But it has provided  an example of its letter to customers  from a 
later date. I think  its reasonable  to assume that this is broadly similar to the one that JD 
Williams says it sent to Mr Q.  The letter  notifies  a customer about variations to their account 
and how the interest  rate will change,  giving  a date in the future when this change will take 
effect.  
From the information Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that JD Williams did send  Mr 
Q information about a change in the interest rate on his account. And from what  Ive seen, I 
think its likely that he was given  the appropriate  period of notice before the increased 
interest rate was applied to his account.
Mr Q has told us he didnt receive the letter. I accept that this is possible,  although  I think its 
equally possible that he did receive  it and didnt read it or realise its significance at the time.  
But even if Mr Q hadnt received the letter in the first place,  JD Williams customer  contact  
records indicate that when he raised  a query, he was sent a copy.  So I think  JD Williams did 
what it could to make Mr Q aware  of changes  to the interest rate on his account.  And I dont 
think it wouldve been reasonable to expect JD Williams to send such  a standard letter by 
recorded delivery, as Mr Q has suggested.
Mr Q says if hed been  made aware  of the increase in the interest rate, he wouldnt have 
purchased a large item on the higher rate of interest. And that he wasnt  given an opportunity  
to decline the interest  rate rise, pay off the balance and close  his account.  But it appears that 
Mr Q carried on using his account for some  years after hed queried  the interest rate in early 
2014. So even  if JD Williams had failed to notify him of the change  in interest rate, I cant  
fairly say that Mr Q would  have acted any differently as he appears to have carried  on using  
his account. I also think Mr Q was aware  that he could pay off the full balance  and close  his 
account if he wished.   
Taking everything into account,  I cannot fairly say that JD Williams failed to notify Mr Q when 
it increased the interest rate on his account  or that it failed to give him appropriate notice of 
such a change in line with his credit agreement. I havent seen anything which makes me 
think JD Williams  unfairly increased the interest  rate on Mr Qs account, or that it treated him 
unfairly in some other  way. And I dont think that JD Williams materially  breached the 
relevant consumer credit regulations in force at the time.
I know Mr Q feels  very strongly about his complaint. I am sorry that my decision will 
disappoint him, but Id like to reassure him that I have carefully considered everything that 
both he and JD Williams have told us and all the information that has been provided about  
this matter. Having  done  so, I am not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against JD 
Williams & Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2020.
Ref: DRN24657783Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2465778