K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained to Acromas Insurance Company Limited about the service he received 
from a garage when he broke down while abroad. Mr P sought  assistance under his 
European Motor  Breakdown Cover policy. 
All references in my decision  to the underwriter  Acromas include its agents. 
background
Mr P broke down while driving  abroad and he called  Acromas  for assistance. It arranged for 
a patrol  agent  to attend. Mr P said the problem was very easy to identify and that the patrol  
agent conspired with a local garage to rip him off. 
Mr P said that the same fault appeared shortly  after he paid for the repairs.  Acromas told 
Mr P he would need to complain to the garage. It agreed to repatriate Mr Ps car back to the 
UK. 
Mr P said during repatriation the bonnet of his car was damaged. Mr P wanted Acromas to 
reimburse him for the repair costs  he paid while abroad and to repair the damage  to his car 
caused during  transit.  
Acromas explained  that its policy clearly  states  that the garage and recovery operators arent 
acting as agents of Acromas.  So it isnt responsible for their actions. But Acromas was sorry 
about the poor experience  Mr P had been  through.
It said the agent who collected  Mr Ps car from the garage for repatriation  said the bonnet 
damage was already  there. 
Mr P asked us to look at his complaint.  Our investigator thought Acromas had acted in a fair 
way. 
Mr P didnt agree. So the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mr Ps policy  with Acromas sets out under the heading important  limitations of service the 
differences between  the cover Mr P would receive  in the UK and abroad.  Acromas explained 
that third parties abroad are not approved by them and do not act as their agents. 
The collection agent reported that the damage to the bonnet of Mr Ps car was already there. 
So I cant safely conclude that the damage  was caused during transit.  Therefore I dont think 
Acromas is responsible for this damage. 
I understand Mr P will be disappointed with my decision. And I can appreciate his strength of 
feeling given his experience and the impact  it had on his trip. But from what  Ive seen, I think  
Acromas acted reasonably and in line with the policy. So I dont think  it needs to do any 
more. 
Ref: DRN22258722my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2225872