K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. Mrs 
W says Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1996.  The policy cost no more 
than 71p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and covered Mrs W in the event she 
wasnt working due to accident, sickness  or unemployment. Following a successful claim,  it 
would repay  10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  for up to twelve  months. 
The policy was cancelled in 2007.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The PPI was sold more than 20 years ago when Mrs W took out a credit  card.  Given the 
amount of time that has passed  since it was sold, its understandable  that Lloyds can no 
longer provide documents now from the time of the sale.  I appreciate  what  Mrs W says, 
but without more evidence, I cant say its more  likely  that Lloyds  didnt make  it clear that 
she didnt have to take out PPI or that Mrs W didnt choose  to take it out.
Ive seen a sample  of the type of application  form used by Lloyds  in 1996 and taking this 
into account together with what I know about Lloyds sales processes at the time,  Im 
satisfied that the policy  wouldve been presented  as optional.  And as the PPI wouldve 
appeared on her monthly credit card statements, had it been added  to Mrs Ws account  
without either her knowledge  or her consent,  I wouldve expected  her to query this at 
some point in the first few months after the account  was opened.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs W so it had to check that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover   she 
told us she was employed  and in good health.  Mrs W told us she had some  sick pay in 
the event that she was off work  due to sickness or an accident,  but this policy  would 
have paid out for 12 months  and at a level over and above  that provided by her 
employer.
Its possible  the information Lloyds gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems  like it would  have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs O and her representative have said about  the sale of the 
PPI itself  but these  points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN27007872my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2700787