K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt  helped  him during his financial difficulties.
background
Mr G became unfit to work and fell into financial difficulties. He contacted Santander  about  
this but felt they were unsympathetic and showed  a lack of care in helping  him to avoid 
further debt and he was kept on hold too long.
Santander said it had listened and cared about  Mr Gs problems, and it said it waived some 
charges on his account. Santander said the arrears on Mr Gs personal loan account are 
around £2,000  and represent about  a years instalments. It said Mr G is only able to make 
token payments and his affordability doesnt  justify setting up a formal payment 
arrangement. Santander  said its debt collection process has been on hold during the 
complaint process  with the interest  and fees suspended.
Santander said it placed operational blocks on Mr Gs account and it is handled by its 
Collections and Recoveries Department to limit further debt build-up. It said his account 
could only have avoided  a default  if Mr G had been able to maintain the agreed monthly 
payments. It apologised for advising him otherwise, and paid him £75 compensation.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said Santander 
recognised Mr Gs difficulties, and over the years had suspended interest and charges on 
various occasions. 
Mr G disagreed with the investigator. He said he didnt want his account to go into default 
and he wanted  an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr G also has a complaint concerning his 
credit card account, and this has been considered separately.
Mr G said he was kept on hold too long during his calls to Santander and they were  
inconsiderate. I sympathise, but havent seen evidence to show that delays were excessive 
or that Santanders  representatives were inconsiderate towards him.
Mr G has been unable  to work and consequently  hes experienced financial difficulties. Hes 
on an informal paydown arrangement at present where he makes  a token contribution  to the 
arrears. 
I can well understand  why Mr G would want to avoid receiving a default notice for the arrears 
on his account.  However,  banks are required to notify accurate information  about non-
compliance with loan instalments or excess overdraft debts. Defaults are recorded  when  
loan repayments  are not maintained, even  generally where a replacement time to pay 
arrangement is agreed for arrears. Im pleased Santander apologised to Mr G for mis-
advising him about the default and I think its compensation is fair for this.
In putting a default on Mr Gs account  Santander  followed  its normal  process and acted  in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions of Mr Gs account. I think  Santander withheld the 
Ref: DRN28522292default longer  than we would normally expect to see and I think  in suspending recovery  
interest and charges it has treated him fairly in his financial  difficulties. From what I have 
seen, Santander  has provided Mr G with a level of support that we would expect to see in his 
circumstances.
I can see that Mr G has maintained good  contact with Santander to keep it informed of his 
situation. I hope he can emerge from his difficulties  in the near future.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2852229