K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Hartwell Finance Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr W bought the policy  when he took out a hire-purchase loan for a car in 2005. The loan 
included an amount to pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr W says he wasnt  told that the PPI was optional and if hed known  that he wouldnt 
have chosen to take it out. Hartwell has been able to give me some documents from the 
time of the sale. This included the demands  and needs  document that was completed 
following a conversation between Mr W and Hartwell. This shows Hartwell recommended  
that Mr W take out PPI and GAP insurance.  It also shows  that Mr W chose to take out 
the PPI but didnt  agree to take out the GAP  insurance. So I think Mr W was aware  he 
could pick and choose which products he wanted. 
Hartwell has also given  me a copy of the signed  hire purchase agreement  from the time 
of the sale. The information on this was pre-printed and I think  its most likely  this was 
completed following  a conversation with Mr W and Hartwell. This had a separate  section 
underneath where Mr W signed to agree to the loan about optional  products. There was 
an X in the box next to PPI indicating  Mr W agreed  to take it out, and Mr W signed 
underneath this to confirm his selection. Throughout the document, PPI was described 
as an optional product.  
So, on balance, I think Hartwell made Mr W aware that he had a choice about  buying the 
PPI, and that he chose  to take it out.
Hartwell recommended the PPI to Mr W  and it seems to have  been  right for him based  
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. Mr W had no sick pay or savings  
available to him at the time of the sale. The policy couldve covered his repayments  for 
up to 12 months if he was too ill to work,  had an accident or was made redundant. I 
appreciate Mr W has said he couldve relied on his friends and family if he was unable to 
meet his repayments.  But support from others cant always be guaranteed as their 
circumstances can also change. And ultimately the loan repayments were the 
responsibility of Mr W alone.
Ref: DRN21800892The cost of the policy was shown on the hire purchase agreement  including  the 
amount of the premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost.  So I 
think Mr W would have understood how much the PPI would cost if he kept the policy  for 
its full term. 
Given how long the policy  could have paid out for, if Mr W made a successful claim he 
couldve got back quite a bit more than he paid for it. 
Its possible Hartwell didnt point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr W 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. So I dont think  better 
information wouldve  affected his decision to take out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 May 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2180089