K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold  payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to Mr M. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken  responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2000 alongside a store credit account. Mr M 
was sold the policy at the same time that he applied for the account  in the shop.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr M has said, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. This is 
because: 
 The form, which Mr M filled in and signed,  does set out the PPI (described as account 
cover) as a choice,  which  you make  by signing in a box. I can see that Mr M did sign 
in that box. So I think it was clear  the PPI was optional and Mr M chose to take it.
 It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Mr Ms individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted  his 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mr M to decide whether it was suitable.
 However AXA did need to give Mr M clear  and fair information, so he could make an 
informed choice.  And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough,  and I dont know what other 
information was given to Mr M. So Ive thought  about whether better information is 
likely to have made  a difference. But in Mr Ms circumstances  at the time, even if hed 
been given all the necessary information,  I dont think  its likely to have made a 
difference to his decision. I say this because its fairly likely that the PPI could have 
paid out for longer than his full employer sick pay lasted. And it would  have been  in 
addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. Also its not clear he had many  
alternative means to pay his living expenses and credit account  for long, if he lost his 
income; and even if he did, he could have kept that in reserve for longer. Also it doesnt 
look like hed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  So, 
overall, the PPI is likely still to have  seemed  potentially useful.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN24791242Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2479124