K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that a car he has been  financing through  an agreement with Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services UK Limited  (MBFS)  has not been of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr L took receipt of a new car in March 2016. He financed  the deal through a hire purchase  
agreement with MBFS. But hes had problems with the car and now wants to reject  it and 
terminate his finance agreement. The problems are summarised in this table:
date problem action
March 2016 Mr L says he took the car 
back to the dealership to 
have a rattle  repairedtheres no job card for this 
work but Mr L says a repair  
was carried out
January 2017 report of a noise  from the 
roofroof lubricated by dealership
February 2017 noise from roof is still present 
and fuel flap rubbingexpansion rivets replaced for 
roof and fuel flap adjusted
August 2017 noise from roof blind is lubricated
September 2017 rattle from interior light overhead panel insulated
February 2018 noise from roof roof is replaced
December 2018 further noises  reported window runners and seals 
lubricated and exhaust  clamp  
replaced
January 2019  noises from windows window regulator  replaced
February 2019 noises from windows and the 
roof. Fault with front doorinsulated roof wiring  and 
replaced door lock
In March 2019 Mr L complained to MBFS. They didnt think  he had a right to reject  the car 
under the relevant legislation but said they would  take the car back as a gesture of goodwill. 
They said theyd also refund him £30 for each  visit hed had to make to the dealership and 
that theyd refund two of his monthly  finance instalments. They  also offered to pay him £150 
to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced. 
But Mr L wasnt satisfied with their offer. He thought they should refund his deposit and he 
therefore referred his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator thought the car hadnt proven 
to been sufficiently durable.  He didnt think a reasonable person would expect so much to go 
wrong on a new car and he therefore thought there  was a reason to reject  the car under the 
relevant legislation. He therefore suggested that MBFS take the car back; end the 
agreement; pay Mr L £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed 
experienced and refund  20% of the finance instalments hed paid because hed not had full 
use of the car.
Mr L accepted  the adjudicators opinion but MBFS didnt. They thought  the suggested 
settlement was disproportionate. They  said the car hadnt failed until Mr L had had it for nine 
months and they stressed there was no evidence it had broken down in the first few days  as 
Mr L had suggested.  They therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN22311272my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint MBFS so please  let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement.  The hire purchase  agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then MBFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr L. This was a 
brand new car so I would  not expect  it to have any faults.
The relevant  legislation  also says that I should take into account whether  a car has proven to 
be suitably durable  when I consider whether its been of satisfactory quality.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask MBFS to put this right. 
I dont think a reasonable person would  expect a brand new car to have failed so frequently  
within the first 12,000  miles  of driving.  Mr L has been  plagued  by problems. The records  
suggest the car has been taken to the dealership on five occasions  to have noises from the 
roof looked  at and there have been noises from the windows, doors and exhaust. Ive 
counted eight, and arguably  nine, visits to have repairs completed  and I dont think  that 
suggests this vehicle has been  of satisfactory  quality. MBFS have had several opportunities 
to rectify problems but theyve not been successful.
I can see, however,  that MBFS have tried to offer a solution. I think  they were fair to allow  
Mr L to return  the car but I think they should have gone further with the redress they offered. 
Ive reviewed what our adjudicator has suggested and I think  thats a fairer  resolution.
So MBFS should allow Mr L to reject the car and terminate his finance agreement. They 
should refund his deposit as Mr L will need  that to fund an alternative vehicle. And, as Mr L 
has been deprived of that money, they should add 8% simple interest to the refund.
Ref: DRN22311273Its clear Mr Ls use of the vehicle has also been impaired. The car has suffered from regular 
noises and rattles and that will have spoilt his enjoyment of it too. So in respect  of this I think  
MBFS should refund 20% of all instalments Mr L has made towards his agreement and add 
8% interest to those  payments.
Mr L has been inconvenienced by the problems hes had with the car. Hes had to return  to 
the dealership  on at least eight occasions and has had to progress  a complaint that could 
have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances I think  £250  compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hes experienced is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Mercedes-Benz  Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
terminate the finance  agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr L;
refund  Mr Ls deposit and add 8% simple interest  per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
refund  20% of Mr Ls finance instalments in respect of loss of use and add 8% simple  
interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr L £250 to compensate  him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ls credit  file in respect  of 
this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2231127