K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as part of a total mortgage protection  plan (TMPP).
background
Miss P took out a mortgage in 2002  which  was set up without  PPI.
In 2003, around  about the time she took out a further advance, Miss P took out TMPP cover  
to protect  her mortgage repayments in the event of accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
Miss P was unhappy  with Halifaxs response  when  she complained  about  the way it sold her 
PPI, so she brought her complaint to us.
We investigated how the PPI was sold to Miss P. Our adjudicator  didnt recommend 
upholding her complaint.   
Miss P disagreed with our adjudicator. Her main complaints are that Halifax didnt explain 
the cancellation terms and she doesnt recall PPI being mentioned. Miss P told us that she 
wouldnt have opted for it if asked  and that she didnt need  it as she had sick pay through 
work and other ways  she could've covered the mortgage monthly repayments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ps complaint. Heres why I say this.
Ideally Id expect  the paperwork to show whats likely  to have happened at the time and how 
the PPI was likely to have been presented. Halifax  couldnt  provide all the documents from 
the time of sale. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold  the complaint. Its not surprising, 
given how long ago this sale happened, that all the paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt 
reasonably expect Halifax or Miss P to have kept this. 
Ive taken into account that Miss P says she was sold the PPI over the phone  Halifaxs 
records suggest it was sold through one of its branches. But this makes no overall  difference 
to the outcome. However Miss P was sold this PPI, I cant know exactly what  was discussed 
about it, if anything,  when  Miss P arranged  the cover.  After  so long, it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  her to recall exactly what was said at the time. This means  that what 
Miss P says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. I must look at 
all the available  information and take into account the wider circumstances. I have to be 
impartial and decide what I think is most  likely to have happened.  
I think that Halifax made Miss P aware that the PPI was optional  and she chose to take it 
out. I say this because  shed  had her mortgage for some time without PPI  so I think shed 
have known it was up to her to choose if she wanted to add it to her account. 
Ref: DRN23500872Miss P told us that she borrowed some extra money to pay for some home improvements 
and she specifically remembers telling the broker she spoke  to about this that she didn't 
want PPI. And she may well be right about  that.
But I think its likely that having PPI was something Halifax  discussed directly with Miss P 
during the course of arranging the further advance   and she changed her mind about  taking 
it out.
This service has seen copies of the TMPP paperwork Halifax normally used around the time 
Miss P took out her cover. And we already know from looking at other cases  what  the usual 
process was when Halifax sold TMPP. Ive no clear  reason to think that Halifax wouldnt 
have followed its normal sales process  here.  So I think its likely  that PPI was explained and 
recommended for Miss P. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long period of time - and 
Miss P was increasing the amount secured on her property. Miss Ps home couldve been at 
risk if the mortgage payments werent  paid in full and on time - and she alone was 
responsible for making the monthly repayments. So, I can see why she mightve  felt PPI was 
useful to have  at the time. And it seems to me most likely that Miss P was persuaded of the 
benefits of protecting her mortgage  monthly  repayments from that point on and she decided  
to buy cover.  On balance,  I cant fairly  say that the policy wasnt  presented  as optional or 
that Miss P didnt choose  to have it. 
Halifax says it recommended PPI to Miss P. If a financial  business makes a recommendation 
about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommends is suitable 
as well as giving important policy information  in a clear  way. 
It looks like PPI was suitable  for Miss P based on what Ive seen of her circumstances when 
the policy was sold. 
She was eligible for the cover. And although Miss P had good sick pay entitlement through  
work this doesnt mean that Halifaxs recommendation was unsuitable.  
PPI couldve protected  Miss P if she was disabled or too sick to work  as well as providing 
cover if Miss P lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
The policy couldve  paid out for up to 24 months per claim  significantly longer than shed 
have been able to rely on getting  sick pay through work. 
The policy wouldve paid out on top of any other income from work or any redundancy 
payment she might  have  got, which I think couldve been useful if Miss P found she had 
extra costs  as a result of being too unwell to go back to work, or she lost her job. 
Relying on family to help out in the event of money  problems  isnt as dependable as taking 
out PPI as everyones circumstances  can change unexpectedly.
Ref: DRN23500873Miss P has said if necessary she couldve sold her car and some other valuables she had. 
But I think it unlikely that selling her car wouldve been enough to pay the mortgage for very 
long  bearing in mind  it was a financial commitment she was expecting  to have to pay for 
many years. The policy provided Miss P with long term protection as she couldve made 
repeated claims on it. And having PPI meant Miss P wasnt  at risk of being forced to sell her 
other valuables   perhaps when she mightnt have  got as much as she hoped for and which 
ideally I think its likely  she wouldve preferred to keep. 
I dont know if Miss P wouldve always had savings to rely on if she couldnt  work. And the 
policy protected her mortgage for longer  than the amount of savings shes  mentioned 
would've lasted  if shed had to rely on these to cover her monthly repayments. 
Having PPI meant Miss P could be sure she would be able to make her mortgage monthly  
repayments even  if she couldnt work. I think this couldve been an important consideration 
at the time for Miss P  even if shes now forgotten this. And I think PPI was suitable  for her, 
looking at what I know about  her circumstances at the time.
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Miss Ps case. So, I dont  think  having more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected her decision to take it out.
I dont know if the cost and benefits  of the PPI were made clear to Miss P when she bought 
the policy. But she chose  to take out the cover  when she didnt  have to  and she didnt take 
out other insurance  that was also on offer as part of the TMPP. So she seems  to have 
specifically wanted  just the PPI at the time and selected the cover option she was happy  to 
pay for. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Miss P still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed, as the 
policy gave her useful  protection in her particular  situation. I dont think better information 
wouldve stopped  Miss P buying PPI. So I dont  find she has lost out as a result of anything 
Halifax may have done wrong during the sales process.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2350087