K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold  them  a monthly  
premium mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs P were  sold a MPPI policy in 2005 during a phone  call. 
The PPI would have  provided a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months if Mr and/or Mrs P lost 
their jobs.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs P didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs P were eligible under the policy. Based on Mr 
and Mrs Ps age and circumstances at the time of the sale,  Im satisfied that they were  both 
eligible.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs P that the MPPI was optional  and needed  their 
consent before it could  be applied to Mr and Mrs Ps account.  Mr and Mrs P say they 
werent aware that they had been sold PPI.
I cant know for sure what took place  during  the sale. So Ive thought about what Mr and   
Mrs P have told us and have considered the documents and information available  from the 
time of the sale to help me decide  what is more likely to have happened.
I note that the policy was sold around two years  after the original mortgage was taken out in 
connection with a further advance. So I think this indicates that Mr and Mrs P would have  
been aware that they didnt need  to take PPI in order to get the mortgage. 
The mortgage offer also makes  it clear that PPI wouldnt  have been compulsory. Ive also 
seen other  documents and contact notes  from around the time of the sale which make it 
clear that Mr and Mrs P were  aware  that they had taken out PPI. 
So all in all, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs P were made aware  that the MPPI was 
optional and that it was applied to the account because  they chose to take it out.
Santander accept  they advised  Mr and Mrs P to take MPPI. This means they had to check  it 
was suitable for them.  I dont know  if Santander  took all the steps they should have to check 
Ref: DRN21564532if the MPPI  was suitable for Mr and Mrs P but I do think the policy  was suitable  for them.  I 
say this because:
-Mr and Mrs P say they didnt need  PPI as they had other existing policies.  However, 
none of the policies  Mr and Mrs P have mentioned would have provided cover for 
unemployment in the way that this policy would have. The policies appear to have 
provided cover in the event of ill health and/or  death. 
-Mrs P has mentioned she was entitled to 6 months worth  of redundancy pay from 
her employer.  However, the policy would have paid out in addition to this and would 
have continued  to do so for up to 12 months.
-Mr and Mrs P have  also mentioned  savings  but I havent seen any evidence of these. 
Even if Mr and Mrs P did have some  savings, these didnt  necessarily make  the 
MPPI unsuitable for them because  the savings  could  have helped with living 
expenses while the MPPI helped take care of the mortgage repayments.
-Mr and Mrs P dont  appear to have  been affected by the terms in the policy which  
would have made it difficult for them to make a successful claim under the policy.
-I havent seen  any evidence which suggests the MPPI was unaffordable for Mr and 
Mrs P at the time of the sale.
-Mr and Mrs P could  have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer wanted  or needed  it.
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs P, Santander also had to give 
them clear  information  about the MPPI   in particular about the costs, benefits  and main  
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make  an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs P wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been but this in itself doesnt  mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think  it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think Santander mis-sold Mr and Mrs P 
this MPPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN21564533
Ref: DRN2156453