K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs A took out with a store  card in 1994. Its been  
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mrs As application  form for the store  card. This included a 
section on PPI, with yes and no boxes to be ticked to show whether she wanted  to take it 
out. And the yes  box has been  ticked.
If Mrs A didnt  want the PPI, I think  she couldve ticked the no box. So I think  FICL made it 
clear to her that she had a choice about  the PPI. And that Mrs A chose to take it, knowing 
she didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mrs A any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Mrs A. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the likely exclusions to or 
limits on the cover. The policy  couldve  paid out for longer than Mrs A says she wouldve 
been entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve  meant  she didnt need to rely on any savings or 
other means  she had to make her repayments if she wasnt earning.  So it looks  like the PPI 
couldve been useful  to her if something went wrong.
And so I dont think better information about  the PPI wouldve put Mrs A off taking it out.
Ref: DRN27634932my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019,
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2763493