K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
This complaint is about two mortgage PPI policies  one taken out in 2001 when Mrs T was 
applying for a mortgage and the other in 2002 when she was applying for a further advance.  
Both policies  were sold in meetings. The first policy stopped  when the second was sold.
Each policy was part of a package of insurance which  cost £41.87  a month  in 2001 and £44 
in 2002. However,  the PPI part of the package provided Mrs T with cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment, and cost £13.79 in both years, and the potential monthly 
payment was £231.10 both times.  
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.  
 
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
Im only looking at the PPI element of the insurance Mrs T bought,  because  thats  the part 
shes complained  about. 
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint  and Ive set out my reasons  below.
Mrs T says she doesnt recall much  about  the mortgage  process nor that PPI was mentioned 
for either mortgage  application, so she thinks PPI was added without her knowledge.
Ive seen the application Mrs T completed  in 2001. That form recommended she consider 
taking out an insurance package  which included  PPI, life and critical illness cover.  Mrs T has 
signed to say she wanted the package. So I cant say it was added without her knowledge,  
or that it was something she had to have  in order to get the mortgage.
There isnt much paperwork  from 2002   but it seems most likely Halifax  would have sold the 
PPI in much  the same  way as it did in 2001, because we know thats how it sold PPI at the 
time. And it seems the PPI sold in 2002  simply replaced that sold in 2001,  as the earlier  
policy was cancelled at the time the second  was sold.
I havent seen  anything that suggests  Mrs T thought she had to have the PPI in order  to get 
the extra money. 
Ref: DRN29627512Overall, despite what Mrs T remembers, I think the bank made her aware that PPI was 
optional and she chose  to take it out, and I dont think it was added  without  her knowing 
about it.
The bank has accepted that it advised  Mrs T to take out the policy  on both occasions.  From 
what Mrs T has told us, her circumstances remained largely  unchanged  between 2001 and 
2002. It doesnt look like either policy was unsuitable  for her based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances. I say this because:
-Mrs T was eligible  for both policies given  her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. 
-Mrs T says she would have received some work-related benefits  if she couldnt work  due 
to a sickness or accident. And she had some  savings too. But both policies would have 
paid out in addition to the occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. 
Having either policy  in place would mean Mrs T could use her work-related benefits and 
savings to pay for other  expenses. This would probably have  been  all the more important 
when the policies were sold given that Mrs T was solely  responsible for repaying the 
mortgage. So I think Mrs T would have had some use for either policy despite her 
existing arrangements.
-Mrs T wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting either policys main  benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As she could have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover  I think  it unlikely Mrs T 
needed better advice or information about either  policys  exclusions and limitations.
-I dont know when  Mrs T first knew the cost of the first policy  that might have been 
discussed in the meeting. But the cost was listed on her mortgage offer so I think  she 
must, at least, have  known it cost something  before  this point. Ive seen nothing  to 
suggest it was unaffordable or that the benefit was insufficient  to meet  her monthly  
mortgage repayments. As the second  one cost the same amount I think its likely Mrs T 
knew this cost already.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mrs T about the policies wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But she chose to take out the policy  each time and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. As Ive already said Mrs T wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions 
or limitations  and the policies seem to have been  affordable, I think it unlikely Mrs T would 
have made  a different decision if better  information had been provided  overall,  I think  she 
would still have taken  out the policies.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2962751