K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about the conduct  of her mortgage  account, which  is now owned by TSB 
Bank plc. For ease, I will refer to TSB as the lender  throughout, since  TSB is responsible for 
the whole  complaint.
Mrs H complains that the mortgage and subsequent  products  were  mis-sold; that fees and 
charges have been added to the balance; that she was taken to court even  though TSB 
knew she was facing  very difficult personal circumstances; and that TSB wrote to the wrong 
address. She complains  it isnt treating her fairly now part of the borrowing has become due 
for repayment.
background
Mrs H has taken four tranches of borrowing over the years:
1.The original mortgage,  £200,000  taken  in 2002  over 20 years   ending February 
2022;
2.Further borrowing of £22,000 in 2002  over 20 years   ending December 2022;
3.Further borrowing of £11,500 in 2003  over 22 years   ending March  2025;
4.Further borrowing of £30,000 in 2003  over 15 years   ending March  2018
Mrs H has since  experienced  financial difficulty.  TSB took her to court in 2010, and added  
the costs of doing so to the mortgage  balance. In addition,  various  arrears  fees have been  
added over the years  though some  were refunded in 2010  and again in 2018. As part of 
the resolution of this complaint TSB refunded the remaining  arrears  fees,  though left legal 
and field agent  fees on the account.
Mrs H complained about the sale of the mortgage and about what has happened  to the loan 
since. TSB said the mortgage was taken out on a non-advised basis,  so it wasnt  responsible 
for the sale. It noted that Mrs H was a financial adviser and arranged  the mortgage, and 
further borrowing, herself. It said the sale and the sale of later products was complained  
about out of time. 
TSB accepted that it had written  to the wrong  address in 2018. It said this was because  
there was a delay  in its systems being updated after Mrs H told it of her new address. It also 
agreed it had taken a long time to deal with her complaint.  It apologised and offered £250  
compensation plus £50 towards Mrs Hs expenses.
Mrs H then brought her complaint to us. On her complaint form, she also said that she was 
unhappy that the various sub-accounts of her mortgage  expired at different times, and in 
particular that she had to pay back part of the borrowing before the main mortgage  expired.
TSB objected to us looking  at the complaint, as it said it had been  made  out of time.  I 
therefore considered  this issue, and I issued a jurisdiction decision setting out what we could 
and couldnt look at. 
I grouped Mrs Hs complaints under three headings:
The mortgage was mis-sold, because the terms of the various  parts ended at 
different times, and because the further borrowing was to pay charges and wasnt 
necessary;
Ref: DRN25114582TSB didnt treat Mrs H fairly  in financial difficulty,  in particular by taking her to court  in 
2010 despite her personal circumstances, and by adding  fees and charges to the 
loan;
TSB isnt currently treating her fairly by refusing to extend  the term of the expired part 
of the mortgage  to match  the others and instead threatening legal action, and 
because it wont give her consent to let the property out.
I said that the first two parts  of the complaint were  made out of time, since they concerned 
events that happened more than six years ago. And Mrs H would have  known, or ought 
reasonably to have  done  so, that she had cause for complaint at the time. However, I said 
we could consider  things  that had happened in the six years  leading up to when this 
complaint was first made  that is, since October  2012  and so we could  consider  the third 
issue.
Having made that decision, I now turn to consider the merits of the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear of the difficulties Mrs H has faced over the years. Ive reconsidered what  I 
said in my earlier decision in light of what shes said since  I issued it. But I havent changed 
my mind  about what we can consider and, for the reasons I gave previously, I still think  part 
of her complaint was made out of time.
That means I cant consider the circumstances in which  the four tranches of borrowing were 
taken out, or why the terms all end at different times. Nor can I consider what  happened 
around the legal  proceedings in 2010,  or the fees and charges added  then and since.
As Ive said,  I can only consider whats happened since  October  2012. I note that TSB has 
already refunded all the fees and charges  that were added after this date, and I think thats 
fair.
That leaves the issues around the end of the mortgage. While this complaint  was with us, 
Mrs H managed to sell her property and has now paid it back. She says that she was forced 
into selling  because of the ending of one part of her mortgage in 2018,  which  led TSB to 
threaten to repossess the property if she didnt do so. She says that, as a result, she had to 
sell her property at the worst time  when prices had fallen following the 2016 referendum   
and this has cost her around  £50,000  of her houses  real value, plus what she spent on 
getting it ready for sale.
I think it is unfortunate that the different tranches of borrowing  fell due at different times. I 
cant consider the reasons for that, as they fall within the part of the complaint thats out of 
time. But whatever  the rightness of those reasons, their effect was that Mrs H had to pay 
back part of her mortgage much sooner than the other parts,  and was only able to do so by 
selling her property.
In some cases, I think it would be fair for a lender to extend the terms of the parts  of the 
mortgage that end sooner to match the later parts. It might  not be fair to expect  a borrower to 
sell their property and bring the whole mortgage to an end because only 10% of it has fallen 
due.
Ref: DRN25114583Having looked  at what happened  in this case, I dont  think TSB really  considered  this as an 
option  as I would have  expected it to do.
However, if it had thought  more carefully  about  this, Im not persuaded that the outcome 
would have been any different in the particular circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H was always going to have to pay the mortgage back  eventually.  She had no other way 
of doing so other than by selling the property. So it would always  have had to be sold. The 
argument in favour of extending the term of all the borrowing to the last end date in 2025, or 
even to the end date of the largest  tranche in 2022,  is that doing so would give Mrs H more 
time to sell her property and more  time for the price  to rise.
But there are strong arguments against doing that in the particular circumstances of this 
case.
In the first place, one of the things  Mrs H has complained  about  is the increase in the size of 
her mortgage balance. She borrowed, in total around £260,000  but has had to pay back 
around £360,000. Ive looked at the whole history of the mortgage  and I think  the reason for 
that is that Mrs H has been in financial  difficulties  for most  of the term.
Even though  TSB has refunded the arrears  fees (though not the legal fees), missed 
payments and arrears  still make  the balance go up. This is an interest  only mortgage  so 
each month  interest  is added, and each  month  Mrs H is supposed to pay that interest off, so 
the balance always  stays the same  overall. But where a payment  is missed, the next month 
more interest is charged. And so even if the missed payment is caught up, now more  interest 
is added  to the loan than is cleared off each month.  So the balance increases. 
The more  this happens, the more  the balance goes  up. And the more  the balance goes up, 
the more the interest that is added  each month   and the more  the balance  goes up. This 
effect can lead to arrears  causing the balance to go up quite quickly. And where,  as here, 
there are a lot of missed payments over many  years, the effect can be a significant increase 
in the balance.
When the first tranche  of borrowing fell due in 2018,  Mrs H had been making her monthly 
payments and a contribution to the arrears  off and on  for some time.  But she hadnt been 
paying enough to cover the additional  interest. But then she stopped making  payments 
altogether  she only made two in 2018,  and none in 2019. The arrears started to go up 
again.
All of this means  that Mrs Hs balance was increasing year on year.  If the terms of the 
earlier-expiring parts of the borrowing were extended to 2022  or 2025, that would have 
carried on happening, and Mrs H would have  had to pay back  even more at that point. Ive 
seen no evidence that the amount TSB has asked her to repay  has been calculated  unfairly.
This brings  me on to the second reason why I dont think extending the terms would be the 
right thing to do in this case.
Mrs H says that requiring  her to sell the property  in 2018  it eventually  sold in late 2019  
caused her a loss. This was because of general economic conditions at the time,  and 
because of specific issues with her neighbours. 
Ref: DRN25114584However, theres no guarantee that if she sold in 2022, or 2025,  instead that she would get a 
higher price.  Property prices arent guaranteed to rise, and unforeseen events  locally, 
nationally or globally  could have happened between  2018 and 2022 which  would impact  a 
sale price.  I dont think it can be said with any certainty that its more likely  the property 
would be worth more  in 2022 or 2025 than it was in 2018  especially  bearing in mind that 
any increase in value would  have  to outstrip  the increase in the mortgage balance Ive set 
out above to prevent Mrs H being  left worse off.
And I dont  think its at all clear that Mrs H would  have been able to manage the mortgage 
payments for another four or seven years   bearing  in mind her previous difficulties in doing 
so.
I recognise that not extending the term of the borrowing  that expired in 2018 left Mrs H in a 
difficult position. But for all the above  reasons, I think that on balance  extending the term of 
the borrowing  that expired in 2018  risked leaving her in a worse position  and so doing so 
wouldnt have been in her best interests.  Ive said that I think TSB could have  thought more 
carefully about her situation. But if it had done so, ultimately I think the outcome would have  
been the same.
Mrs H also complains that TSB didnt give her consent to let the property out. Again, I dont 
think TSB approached this in the right way. It referred to its lending criteria  for buy to let 
mortgages, and said Mrs H didnt  meet those criteria. But that wasnt what she was asking 
for; she wasnt  asking for a buy to let mortgage, she was asking for temporary consent to let 
out her residential  property. 
But given what Ive said above, I dont think granting  consent to let would have  been  the right 
thing to do. It might have  increased Mrs Hs income in the short  term. And after she moved 
out, without consent to let, she stopped paying the mortgage altogether. But having a tenant 
in the property would have made it much harder  to sell. As Ive explained, I dont think a term 
extension would have  been in Mrs Hs best interests  and so the same  applies to something 
that would  have made it harder to repay the mortgage when part of it ended in 2018.
Finally, I note that TSB offered £300  compensation for delays  in dealing with Mrs Hs 
complaint, and problems in amending  her address  on its systems. I think  thats fair in all the 
circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because I 
think TSB Bank  plc has made a fair offer of resolution.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2511458