K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Society of Lloyds  unfairly rejected a claim he made on his motorhome 
insurance policy after the vehicle was stolen.
background
Mr R says and his wife were about to leave the UK to travel abroad for several months in the 
motorhome. Hed packed it with all the items  theyd  need and parked it close  to his home,  
locked and secured.  The vehicle was stolen after dark or overnight on 12 November 2017. 
Mr R says there was no sign that the thief had broken into it. He told Lloyds hed left the 
spare key hidden in the vehicle in a deep  container  and had placed a tea-towel on top of it. 
Lloyds said a policy term excluded the loss of the vehicle if a key was left in it. Mr R said the 
vehicle was secured  with locks, plus an immobiliser. The key was hidden, and in Mr Rs 
view, it didnt contribute to the theft.  He said the incident was part of an ongoing series of 
organised thefts  of motorhomes of the type made  by the manufacturer  of his vehicle.  He 
pointed to internet  reports about  the ease  with which they could be taken, despite being  fully 
secured. He said Lloyds should have told him about the vulnerability of the manufacturers 
vehicles to theft. And he said his attention hadnt been drawn to the policy exclusion. 
After Mr R complained to this service,  he sent us further details of similar well-secured 
motorhomes being stolen.  He referred  to a newspaper article that described the tools  that 
are available on the internet, not only to get into the vehicles,  but also to drive  them  away.  
Lloyds said it wasnt for an insurer to advise policy holders on a particular vehicles security.  
It said they should check whether there  were  any security issues themselves.  
Our investigator thought the policy exclusion was sufficiently  highlighted in the policy  
documents. He accepted that it seemed  vehicles like Mr Rs motorhome could be stolen 
without the owners  key. He thought the thief couldnt have known thered be a key hidden in 
Mr Rs vehicle. But he thought it wasnt possible  to say for sure that the key wasnt  used in 
the theft, so in his view the exclusion was applied correctly. He told Mr R that each case we 
look at is dealt with on its own merits. So any cases Mr R may be aware of that he thought 
were similar to his  yet were upheld - would have been different to his in some  way.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy exclusion  that Lloyds  relies  on is a significant one, so wed expect to see that it 
was brought to Mr Rs attention. Its set out in the policys key facts section. Mr R was sent 
the key facts document by his broker, with the policys Certificate of Insurance, Statement  of 
Fact and the brokers terms  of business. The broker said Mr R could view the full policy 
document online, or ask for it to be sent to him. Mr R says the broker  didnt draw his 
attention to the key facts document  but he doesnt dispute that it was provided. 
We think if policy exclusions are highlighted in a key facts  document, the insurer has done 
enough to draw a consumers  attention to them.  In this case  the exclusion that applies here 
Ref: DRN20673742was also set out in the section of the policy that explains what  to do in the event of having to 
make a claim. Under  the heading Keeping your Motorhome safe the policy says the loss of 
a vehicle wont be covered if a keys left in it or reasonable precautions werent  taken to 
protect it. It seems Mr R may not have read the full policy document - and from what  hes 
said, he didnt check the key facts document. But I dont think  thats Lloyds fault.  
Lloyds has relied  on the fact that the spare  key was in Mr Rs vehicle, even  though it was 
locked and secured.  I think  the policy entitles it to do that. I think  the wording of the exclusion 
is clear and that it was sufficiently highlighted.  So I have to consider whether - in this 
particular case - it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the exclusion.   
Mr R says there was no sign of a break-in.  Theres no reason to disbelieve him. And Ive 
seen evidence online that a disproportionate number of motorhomes of this make are stolen. 
It seems  thieves  use various ways of getting  into them   including  by the use of a master 
key. Mr R has pointed out that one major insurer now insists  on extra security measures 
being taken by owners of motorhomes made  by this manufacturer.  Unfortunately, Mr R 
wasnt aware of any of these security  issues prior to the theft.
I think its more likely than not that the thief got into Mr Rs vehicle using one of the tools that 
are readily available for that purpose. The problem is that once the thief got inside, Mr Rs 
spare key was there for him or her to use. Theres nothing to show that other  stolen 
motorhomes of the same type as Mr Rs had spare  keys left in them  when they were taken. I 
think its likely that most  of them were taken  without the owners keys. But in this case,  
Mr Rs key was available.  Although it wasnt visible, I dont think it was well-hidden. From the 
photo Mr R supplied, the container  it was in was part of the dashboard. So I think it was in a 
place that a thief might well see and search  quickly. 
The thief may well have started the vehicle with one of the devices advertised on the 
internet. But it isnt possible to say what happened. As his key was in the vehicle, Mr R cant 
show it wasnt used. We upheld a previous  case where a key was hidden  in a motorhome. 
But in that case, we thought the key was particularly well-hidden.  It seemed unlikely the thief 
would have found it, so we thought the vehicle was probably taken by other means.   
I have great  sympathy  for the position  Mr R has found himself in. The vehicle was newly 
acquired and expensive. It was a very important purchase for Mr and Mrs R, especially given 
Mrs Rs health and the reason they bought it. They lost many personal possessions  that 
were in the vehicle.  And their long-planned, lengthy trip abroad  was ruined. 
I understand why Mr R believes Lloyds decision was unfair. He says he isnt someone who 
is careless by nature,  and I have no reason to doubt that. He says hes noted that we havent  
upheld some similar cases because we thought the consumer had been careless, which  he 
understands. In contrast,  he thinks  he took all reasonable precautions  to protect  the vehicle 
by locking and securing  it. So in his view we should  treat his complaint differently.
I accept that Mr R genuinely believes he did all he could to safeguard the motorhome. But I 
have to take into account that theres a clear policy exclusion  about  not leaving  a key in the 
vehicle. My R didnt comply with it. The reason for the exclusion is that Lloyds  in common 
with most insurers  thinks leaving a key in a vehicle increases the risk of it being  stolen. 
Ive thought carefully about all the particular facts  in this case. Having  done  so, despite my 
sympathy for Mr R, dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim.
Ref: DRN20673743In Lloyds final response letter to Mr R, it commented on issues  relating to the policy 
premium. And at one point, Mr R mentioned the potential  cancellation  of the policy. Mr R has 
told us he considers these  issues to have been  resolved,  so I havent considered them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the Financial  Ombudsman Services rules, I must ask Mr R to accept or reject my 
decision before  25 March 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2067374