K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that she was charged  by Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading 
as Very (Shop Direct)  for items she didnt receive.
background
Miss G ordered several items from Shop Direct, as follows:
September 2016 six Drawer Chest & two door cabinet under the same order
December 2016 flite jacket
February 2017  laptop  and also a sound  bar
She says that she called Shop Direct in March  or April 2017 to query the items as she 
noticed them  on her account. But shes upset that Shop Direct have been unable to provide 
any proof of delivery.  Shed therefore  like to receive a refund.
Shop Direct said that it took over a year before Miss G raised any concerns about  non 
delivery. 
They said on 3 October 2016 Miss G had contacted the retailer  to chase delivery  of the 
September order but no further contact was received. They thought  Miss G wouldve been  in 
touch if the items hadnt been  delivered  after this call and they said they didnt  have proof of 
subsequent delivery as it was made  two and a half years ago.
They said the sound bar and the flite jacket were  ordered  via their click and collect  process.  
Miss G wouldve  had to attend  the collection site with three pieces  of information that only 
she could reasonably have expected to have access to. If the orders werent collected they 
wouldve been returned to the retailer and refunded to Miss G. They  said the goods werent 
returned to the retailer  and it was therefore  reasonable  to suggest Miss G had collected 
them. Especially as she hadnt been in touch about  not receiving the products.
They said that Miss G called the retailer  to chase delivery of the laptop in February 2017. It 
was sent to a business address that Miss G had requested and it was signed  for. This was 
documented on their system but, as Royal mail didnt keep the tracking information for more  
than 12 months, they explained the documents couldnt be supplied.
Our adjudicator looked at the evidence and didnt think it would be fair to ask Shop Direct to 
take any further action.  He didnt think Miss G had provided any conclusive evidence  that the 
items werent delivered and he thought, as such a long time had passed  since the items 
were ordered, it would be fair to suggest it was her responsibility to do so. He explained that 
the goods were  listed on Miss Gs statements and it was reasonable to have expected  her to 
notice them. 
But Miss G disagreed. She said it was unfair to ask her to provide evidence of chasing 
delivery when, on the other hand, the adjudicator was prepared to accept that proof of 
delivery was not necessary from Shop Direct. So she asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN26997262my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Im persuaded that its most likely  these  products  were received. I say that because:
its been a very long time since they were ordered and I think  Miss G would have 
been likely to have  contacted Shop Direct much earlier  as she wouldve realised she 
hadnt received  them
whilst  Miss G says she contacted Shop Direct, there is no evidence of that
Shop  Direct have  provided some  evidence that Miss G contacted  the retailer to 
chase delivery of the cabinets and the laptop. But no subsequent calls were  made.  I 
think this supports the suggestion  the products  were  received. Miss G had been  
prepared to call once  so I think its reasonable to suggest she wouldve called again 
had the items not turned up
Miss G has been provided with regular statements on which  the BNPL  purchases  
have been regularly displayed
Im persuaded by Shop  Directs argument  that the click and collect  purchases  
wouldve been collected. I say that because,  if they werent, the process was for them  
to be refunded. That didnt happen  and I would therefore have expected  Miss G to 
follow this up with Shop Direct  but she didnt
So I dont  think Shop Direct need  to take any further action as I think its most likely, the 
products Miss G complains about, were delivered.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2699726