K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc has made mistakes in the way it has managed  his 
mortgage account. He complains that Clydesdale:
-has been recording his mortgage  as being in default, even though  he was discharged 
from bankruptcy in 2011;
-didnt do enough  to help him in his financial difficulty;
-should have  stopped  the trustee of bankruptcy from taking possession of his property 
in 2018.
Mr T says that Clydesdales incorrect reporting on his credit file has stopped  him from being 
able to move  on with his life. He says its caused him to lose out on buying his dream  home  
and its caused  him considerable  suffering.
background
In 2008 Mr T took out a mortgage with Clydesdale having received advice from a mortgage 
broker. He borrowed around £730,000  on an interest only basis over 13 years.
Mr T soon  fell into arrears with his mortgage  payments. In 2009 he was declared bankrupt. 
In 2011 his bankruptcy was discharged. As part of the bankruptcy, it was agreed that Mr T 
could keep the mortgaged property as a residential address. Clydesdale agreed  to this, and 
Mr T continued to make  monthly  payments of interest.
In 2017, the trustee in bankruptcy sought consent  to sell Mr Ts property through the courts 
and this was agreed.  Mr T had to leave  his property. In December 2017 Mr Ts solicitor wrote  
to Clydesdale. Mr Ts solicitor explained  that hed soon be forced to move  out of the property  
and that he planned to stop making  interest  payments at the point  he moved out. 
From February 2018 Clydesdale started reporting that Mr T was in default on his mortgage 
on his credit file. Mr T says he found out about this when he tried to arrange a new tenancy. 
He complained about to Clydesdale about  this. 
On 9 August  2018 Clydesdale gave its final response.  It said it didnt think it had made a 
mistake and that Mr T should be maintaining  payments on his mortgage. If he didnt, it said it 
was right to report this on his credit  file as this was a true reflection of his mortgage  conduct. 
It didnt think it has treated Mr T unfairly in his financial difficulties over the years,  and it said 
it wasnt Clydesdales place to have prevented the trustee from taking possession of Mr Ts 
property.
Mr T brought  his complaint to us. Our investigator  thought Mr Ts complaint should be 
upheld. He thought Clydesdale was no longer  able to record any default on Mr Ts credit  file 
following his discharge  from bankruptcy. He thought Clydesdale had caused  Mr T 
considerable trouble and upset through its mistake. Our investigator thought Clydesdale  
should pay Mr T £1000  for the impact its mistake  had had on Mr T.
Clydesdale thought our investigators  award  was too high. It said it hadnt known that Mr T 
was discharged from bankruptcy until 2017. 
Ref: DRN29607102Mr T replied to say he thought the compensation awarded was too low. He thought a figure 
of around £50,000  was more appropriate considering the impact  this has had on him. Mr T 
says Clydesdales  mistake had stopped him being able to get on with his life. Hes suffered 
from mental health problems as a result and hes been unable to rent a property or work.  
Hes said he is still considering taking  this matter to court.
Both parties  wanted  an ombudsman to look at the case again and reach a final decision.
my provisional findings
On 28 May 2019 I issued  a provisional decision saying: 
Im sorry to hear that Mr T has had such  a difficult time over the past decade or so. I dont  
doubt how strongly he feels about this complaint and how deeply his financial problems have 
affected him. Ive thought very carefully  about  Mr Ts complaint, and determining as best I 
can what the impact of Clydesdales mistakes  may have been  on Mr T. 
I agree  with our investigator that there  was no need  for Clydesdale  to record a default  on Mr 
Ts credit file in 2018. Mr T stopped making payments having handed the property to the 
trustee. Mr Ts solicitors  had given Clydesdale notice of this happening and Ive seen the 
letter dated  14 December  2017 that updated Clydesdale with Mr Ts situation. While  
Clydesdale has said it didnt previously  know that Mr T had been discharged from 
bankruptcy in 2011, it would have done from this point. It still knew  in advance  of the default 
it started to record from February  2018  on Mr Ts credit file.
Clydesdale now seems  to be in agreement that it didnt  need to record  this default so I wont  
repeat our investigators  reasoning  for this here.
What is still to be determined is what impact this mistake had on Mr T and what  financial 
compensation should be awarded in respect of this. Both parties were  unhappy  with our 
investigators proposed  figure of £1,000 for trouble  and upset caused to Mr T.
Mr Ts explained  how difficult  things  have been  for him in recent years.  Ive also thought 
about Clydesdales decision not to take possession of his property and force  the repayment 
of the mortgage  in 2009 when Mr T was declared bankrupt.  It may have  been  that there 
were a number of motivations for Clydesdale not calling in the mortgage  debt at that point in 
time - but its decision did allow Mr T to remain in the property for a further  eight years  until a 
third party took legal action. Until that point  I think Clydesdale had showed a reasonable 
degree of forbearance in allowing the arrangement (now informal following the discharge of 
bankruptcy) to continue.
Other factors  forced Mr T to leave his property.  That process and the parties  involved are not 
something I need to determine here.  However,  I think its important to note the wider 
circumstances in this case. Im satisfied that Clydesdale is not responsible for Mr T losing his 
property and the problems that have flowed from this.
Clydesdales mistake  is that it started to record a default on Mr Ts credit file from February 
2018 when it shouldnt have. It also started  to send letters  to Mr T saying his mortgage  was 
in arrears and that he needed to make his mortgage payments.
Ref: DRN29607103Mr Ts said that because of Clydesdales actions he hasnt been able to buy another 
property. Hes provided information about the buildings he planned to buy. It seems  that Mr 
T was planning to purchase property as part of a property development scheme. The funding  
for the scheme fell through. Im not persuaded from the information provided to me that this 
was solely  due to an administrative  error  by Clydesdale in the way it was recording mortgage 
debt on Mr Ts credit  file. Mr Ts also said that a significant deposit  was lost but again I dont 
think this is clearly attributable to Clydesdales error.
Ive looked at the copy of Mr Ts credit history  that hes provided to us. I think there are a 
number of other entries on this credit file over the years that may have  caused  concern for 
potential creditors and/or parties  selling property. I dont think theres sufficient  evidence  that 
it was solely  Clydesdales  error that has had an adverse impact  on Mr Ts ability  to get credit. 
It may have been a contributory factor, but even without this error,  Im not persuaded that the 
funding and the venture itself would have gone  ahead.
I agree  that Clydesdales mistake has led to upset and inconvenience to Mr T. However, as 
Ive said, my provisional finding is that I dont think it would be fair to hold Clydesdale  solely  
responsible for Mr Ts wider suffering and hardship. I think a more reasonable payment of 
compensation in this case would be £300.
Mr T needed to pursue  his complaint to get Clydesdale to change his credit history.  But I 
think Clydesdales mistake is one of a number of factors  (of varying significance) that has led 
to the undoubtedly difficult situation that Mr T finds himself in. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr T replied to say he was absolutely not happy  with the compensation I had awarded  and 
he felt I didnt value  his life. Hes said that he plans  not to accept my decision so he can 
pursue the matter in court.
Mr T said Clydesdale had sent further  arrears letter. But it had also been in touch to try to 
reach an agreement  under which Mr T could move back into his property if he pays the 
outstanding mortgage payments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and further arguments  made  to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I can see why Mr T is so disappointed with the compensation that Id considered  was fair in 
the circumstances. Im conscious  that Mr T was very unhappy with the higher award initially 
proposed by our investigator because hed hoped  to receive  around  £50,000.  Id like to 
reassure Mr T that my award makes no judgement as to what value I place upon Mr Ts life. 
The awards that we typically make  are more modest  than Mr T may have hoped. Further 
information on how we determine awards  to compensate people for trouble and upset 
caused by a business mistakes is available on our website.  There  are some  examples given 
of the level of awards made in various  types of complaints. However,  Id like to reassure Mr 
T that each case is determined on its own merits, and any award  is carefully considered in 
the specific circumstances of each complaint brought to us.
Ive given further thought  to everything Mr Ts said. Ive also taken into account  Clydesdales  
recent proposal to let Mr T move back into his property if he repays the mortgage arrears.
Ref: DRN29607104Overall, having reconsidered  all aspects of this complaint, Ive decided not to depart from my 
earlier provisional findings. I still believe that there are a number of factors that have led to 
Mr Ts current situation. The issue Ive considered  in this complaint against Clydesdale  is the 
reporting on Mr Ts credit file from February  2018. For the trouble and upset  caused  by that 
mistake, I consider  Clydesdale should  pay Mr T £300 of compensation.
Mr T is correct that if he accepts my decision  it will become legally binding. He may choose 
not to accept my decision if he wishes to pursue  the same matter  in court.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Clydesdale Bank  Plc. 
I direct  Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay Mr T £300 in full and final settlement of the matter. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2960710