K820x#14complaint
Mrs D, Mr D1 and Mr D2 complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold  Payment  
Protection Insurance (PPI)  to the late Mr D3 in connection with a loan.
background
In 1996 the late Mr D3 and Mrs D took out a loan during a branch meeting. At the same time 
they also took out PPI designed to protect the loan repayments in the event the late Mr D3 
couldnt work because of accident or sickness or if he became unemployed  the policy was 
in the late Mr D3s sole name only.
The policy was a regular  premium policy and it cost just under £11 a month.  The loan was 
for around  £5,000 and it was taken  out over a term of five years.
At the time the late Mr D3 had some sick pay, but no other  means to help make  repayments. 
He was also in good health at the time.
The loan ran to term and the account closed in 2001.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She said that there wasnt  enough evidence  to 
fairly say the late Mr D3 didnt agree  to take out the cover. And there  was nothing about his 
circumstances at the time, which made  it unsuitable or suggest  hed have  acted differently 
and declined  the cover  had BoS done  anything  more.
Because Mrs D, Mr D1 and Mr D2 disagree, the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
I can see Mrs D, Mr D1 and Mr D2 say the sale was conducted during a meeting without any 
advice from BoS. BoS says is did provide  advice.  Given  BoS is in the position of 
understanding how a sale made during a branch meeting at this time was carried out, I think 
its likely  this was an advised  branch  sale. This means BoS had to ensure the policy was 
suitable for the late Mr D3 and it had to provide enough clear information about  the 
recommended cover  so he and Mrs D could  make an informed decision about it. And this is 
what I have considered in reaching my decision.
did BoS make it clear PPI was optional?
BoS hasnt been able to provide  any paperwork  completed during the meeting in 1996.  And 
this isnt surprising  to me  its more than 20 years  ago and the loan has long since  been 
repaid. And businesses  arent obliged to keep records forever. Mrs D hasnt provided  much 
detail about what  happened. So taking all of this into account, Im not persuaded that BoS 
deliberately - or inadvertently during  the advice process - took away  the late Mr D3 and Mrs 
Ds choice about  taking out PPI. 
I think its more likely than not that when BoS introduced PPI, the late Mr D3 and Mrs D 
chose to take it out because they were  interested in protecting  their loan repayments.
Ref: DRN29828222did things happen  as they should  have done?
and if not  to what extent  has the late Mr D3 and Mrs D lost out?
Mrs D, Mr D1 and Mr D2 say the full policy exclusions were not explained  and the adviser 
didnt ask about existing cover to check if PPI was suitable.
Ive already said there isnt any paperwork available to tell me what happened  and whether 
BoS properly advised and informed  the late Mr D3 and Mrs D. For example  the evidence  
doesnt tell me whether BoS considered  the significant exclusions and limitations of cover  
and whether they might impact the late Mr D3. Or if it clearly  told the late Mr D3 and Mrs D 
about these things, the important features of cover or its cost. 
Its likely  the late Mr D3 and Mrs D were  told something about the cover - it seems unlikely to 
me they agreed  to take out PPI without  knowing  something  about  it or its cost. And BoS 
likely sent them a policy document after theyd  taken the cover out where this information 
could be found.  But they wouldnt have based their decision on this information   they more 
likely based  it on what they were told during the meeting.
So taking everything into account I accept its possible BoS didnt do everything  it should 
have done.
But this doesnt  mean the estate of the late Mr D3 automatically gets compensation  I need  
to consider if, and to what extent, the late Mr D3 and Mrs D lost out as a result of the things 
not done. And having done so, for the reasons I set out below, I think  the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for the late Mr D3 and I dont  think  he and Mrs D would have been  put off 
taking it out had BoS done more:
the late Mr D3 was eligible for the cover.
he wasnt affected by the significant  exclusions and limitations  of cover,  which might 
have made the policy unsuitable  for example  he was employed and in good health.
he might  have had some sick pay (albeit I note the discrepancy between what  we 
were told in earlier submissions to the most  recent one.) But the policy  would have 
paid out alongside any sick pay and for longer if necessary. The late Mr D3 didnt 
have any other  means to fall back on, so given he and Mrs D were taking on a fixed 
monthly financial commitment I think there  was a need for cover  and it could have  
proved useful  I dont  think it was wrong of BoS to recommend it.
the evidence  doesnt tell me that the benefit  of the policy  was clearly set out. But 
given it was protecting a loan repayment, I dont think  the late Mr D3 and Mrs Ds 
expectations about what it would provide were different from what  it did provide.
the cost at just under  £11 didnt  make it unsuitable - it appears to have been 
affordable. Theres also nothing which leads me to think that in weighing  up the cost 
and benefit, the late Mr D3 and Mrs D would more likely than not have been put off 
taking it out had BoS made the cost clearer.
On the topic of cost and for the sake of clarity  this was not a single premium  policy  
where the cost information is more complicated  because the PPI premium  attracts  
interest over the term. This was a fixed regular premium policy paid separately to the 
monthly loan repayment.
because it was a regular premium policy it provided flexibility   it could be cancelled  
at any time and without penalty.
Ref: DRN29828223So overall, while I accept  there might  have been failings in the way BoS sold PPI to the late 
Mr D3 and Mrs D  it might not have treated them fairly and reasonably  - given the late Mr 
D3s circumstances at the time,  I find the policy was ultimately suitable and theres nothing 
about it which might have put him and Mrs D off taking it out had BoS done anything  more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that the late Mr D3 and Mrs D did not suffer 
loss as a result of taking  out PPI in connection with their loan, so I make no award  in favour 
of the estate of the late Mr D3.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D, Mr D1 and 
Mr D2  on behalf  of the late Mr D3 - to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2982822