K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Capital Index  (UK) Limited  (CIUK)  closed  her trading account.
background
Mrs A wanted to learn to trade foreign  currencies  (forex). She paid a company, which Ill call 
L, for a trading training course. She then opened a trading account with CIUK.
Shortly afterwards, CIUK  told Mrs A it was closing  her account  in line with its terms and 
conditions. It said she needed to close any positions and withdraw  her money within  10 
days.
Mrs A complained. She said shed spent a considerable sum on the training course with L 
and needed to be able to trade or that money would have been wasted. CIUK didnt agree to 
re-open Mrs As account, but it said it hadnt dealt  with her complaint  very well and gave her 
£250 to say sorry. Still unhappy with the situation,  Mrs A brought her complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators  looked into things, and concluded CIUK hadnt done  anything 
wrong. He noted  the terms allowed either  CIUK or Mrs A to end the arrangement,  and didnt 
think it was unfair for CIUK to have  done  so. He explained L was a separate  company to 
CIUK and it wasnt regulated. So we couldnt  look at anything L had done or tell it to refund 
the money shed  paid for the training course.
Mrs A didnt agree. She said shed put all her money into her trading and wasnt  able to use 
Ls services with any brokers other  than CIUK.  She wanted us to ask L to refund the fees 
shed paid for the training  courses she could no longer put to use.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. While I know this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mrs A, Im afraid  there isnt much I can add to what  the 
investigators already  said.
When Mrs A signed up for an account with CIUK, she agreed to its terms. Those  terms say 
either party can terminate  the agreement by giving written notice, which CIUK did.
Much as Mrs A is free to open  accounts or use the services of the companies she chooses, I 
dont think its unfair  or unreasonable for CIUK to choose which  customers it wants  to 
accept.
When it told Mrs A it was closing her account  it gave her 10 days  to make  other  
arrangements and close her positions.  I think that was a reasonable amount of time.
So I dont  think CIUK treated Mrs A unfairly,  and it follows that I dont think  it needs to re-
open her account  or compensate her in any way. It paid her £250  for the way it handled her 
complaint, which  I think is fair.
Ref: DRN29832552Mrs As also unhappy with L, because it wont  refund her training course fees or let her trade  
using another  broker. As our investigator  explained,  our service cant  comment  on anything 
L did, or compel  it to do anything. While L and CIUK  are linked, they are separate  
companies. And L isnt regulated by the FCA so doesnt fall within our jurisdiction. That 
means we have no power to investigate whether L should pay Mrs A her money back. And 
we couldnt require it pay anything if we did think it was the right thing to do.
I sympathise with Mrs As position and I dont doubt  the impact  spending  so much money 
has had on her. But I dont think any of this is a result of CIUK doing anything  wrong.  So I 
dont think it would be fair for me to tell CIUK  to do anything.
As our investigator said, if Mrs A wants to pursue things with L she should approach them 
directly, or might want to ask her bank or credit card provider if they can help.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2983255