K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plcs (RSA)  decision  to decline part 
of a claim under his home  insurance policy following a leak in her home.
background
Mr B had home insurance  with RSA and made a claim following  a leak from his shower 
which caused damage in his bathroom, a bedroom wardrobe and the kitchen/diner. He told 
RSA hed noticed staining on the ceiling in the kitchen  and a plumber later identified a failure 
of the grouting between  the wall tiles, confirming that water  had run under the floor tiles, into 
the adjacent bedroom and kitchen  directly below.
RSA agreed to pay for the tiles and plasterboard  to be replaced,  a section of the chipboard  
floor and floor tiles, and a section of laminate floor inside the bedroom  wardrobe. It said the 
shower tray and cubicle  would need to be removed and re-fitted,  but as they were damaged 
when they were removed,  it eventually agreed  to them  to be replaced.  
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with some elements of the settlement, so he complained to RSA. He 
felt that because the flooring in the wardrobe was being replaced, the bedroom flooring 
would also need  to be replaced. He explained the flooring in both areas was the same and 
as it was about five or six years old, a similar  match couldnt be sourced, meaning there 
would be a mismatch.  He argued the bedroom wardrobe wasnt a separate  room,  rather,  it 
was an offset which  was linked to the bedroom and therefore, irrespective of there being a 
break in the floor between the bedroom  and wardrobe, the areas should be classed as one.
He also argued  that as the shower  tray and cubicle was being replaced,  RSA should also 
pay to replace the sink and toilet.  He explained the shower tray wasnt  a standard white  tray 
and that it was part of a suite, and that as there was no match  available,  failing  to replace the 
other elements of the suite  would result  in a mismatch.
RSA said the bedroom  flooring was undamaged and as the wardrobe  flooring didnt continue 
into the bedroom, it could be replaced without damaging the bedroom  flooring. It said the two 
areas were classed as separate rooms  as the flooring was separated  by beading  and a door,  
and the flooring in the wardrobe was laid in a different direction to the flooring in the 
bedroom (it explained a room is defined as a part or division of a building enclosed by walls,  
floor and a ceiling).  
Regarding the bathroom sink and toilet,  RSA said it was unable to pay for them to be 
replaced because  they were  undamaged. It said there was no evidence  the items formed  
part of a set and that as the shower tray was standard white,  it was possible to find a 
suitable replacement  with no loss of match.
Mr B remained dissatisfied and so he complained to this service.  Our investigator noted the 
bedroom flooring  was undamaged and that it was separate  from the wardrobe flooring in that 
the wardrobe flooring was lifted  above the bedroom flooring and laid in a different direction. 
So he was satisfied  RSAs decision  not to pay for the bedroom  flooring to be replaced was 
fair. Regarding the bathroom sink and toilet, he noted that, although they might have been 
bought with the shower tray, there  was no reason  to replace them  because  the shower tray 
was white and therefore there was no loss of match resulting from replacing the shower tray 
alone.
Ref: DRN25250982Mr B wasnt  satisfied with the outcome of his complaint and so its been  passed to me for a 
decision. He maintains the flooring in the wardrobe and the bedroom  is exactly  the same and 
even though theres a break  between  the two areas and its laid in a different direction, he 
doesnt accept  its a different room. He argues that if the bedroom flooring isnt replaced, 
there will be a mismatch  because the inside of wardrobe and bedroom flooring will be 
different. He also believes the policy  wording  is ambiguous and can be misinterpreted, 
pointing out that with respect to flooring  other  than carpet,  the policy states  it will not cover 
undamaged matching flooring in adjoining rooms. But its not clear how that differs from 
any other part of the home, which is the wording  for carpets. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator, for broadly the same  reasons.
The policy states  where floor coverings, except carpets, are damaged  beyond  repair, only 
the damaged  floor coverings will be replaced  and not undamaged floor coverings in 
adjoining rooms.  Mr Bs argued this is ambiguous because  it differs  from the part of the 
policy that deals  with carpets, which  states  if we cannot repair the damaged carpet, we will 
also replace any attached  carpet  (of the same  colour, design  and material) in any other  parts 
of the home. However, we will not pay to replace any undamaged carpet in other parts  of the 
home that is separated from the damaged carpet, for example, by means  of a door or room 
divider.
I accept the two sections  are different, but for the purpose of this claim, I think RSAs 
decision to rely on the part of the policy that deals  with floor covers  is fair and that the 
relevant section is clearly  worded.
Theres no dispute that the flooring in the bedroom is undamaged,  and that its possible to 
replace the flooring in the wardrobe without disturbing or damaging the bedroom flooring. 
Theres also no dispute that the flooring in the wardrobe is separated  from the flooring in the 
bedroom by the wardrobe doors and beading and that, while its the same style of flooring, 
its been laid in a different direction. The policy  doesnt provide cover for undamaged flooring 
in adjacent rooms,  and while I understand that, typically, a wardrobe isnt separate to the 
room in which it stands,  I consider  the fact its divided  from the bedroom by doors  means 
RSAs approach to it as separate is reasonable. 
I understand Mr Bs frustrated, in part, because of the apparent ambiguity in the policy  
wording. But Im satisfied  that as the flooring  in the bathroom is undamaged and isnt 
connected to the flooring in the wardrobe,  RSAs  decision not to replace it is fair. I accept the 
flooring is the same  in both areas, but I think its unlikely that Mr B wont be able to find 
something very similar and I consider it would be unreasonable to ask RSA to pay for the 
bedroom floor to be replaced  in circumstances where the area its intended to match is 
concealed with a wardrobe and has previously been laid in a different direction.  
As for the bathroom  sink and toilet,  the relevant part of the policy  states where items 
originally purchased as part of a set cannot be matched  and an appropriate replacement 
cannot be sourced,  we will pay for accompanying items from a bathroom suite, three-piece  
suite or kitchen unit (excluding  kitchen  appliances)  if one individual  item is damaged. 
Ref: DRN25250983I accept the shower  tray might form part of a set along with the sink and toilet, but as a white  
shower trays  are readily available, Im satisfied RSAs decision not to pay for a new sink and 
toilet is fair, because an appropriate  replacement can be sourced. That and the fact neither  
the sink nor the toilet was damaged by the leak satisfies me that RSAs decision not to pay 
for them to be replaced is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
I understand Mr B will be disappointed but, for the reasons outlined  above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2525098