K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold  payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) to her alongside a credit card in 1999. 
I know that when  BOS sold PPI to Mrs P, it was trading as Halifax.  But to keep things simple, 
Ill refer to BOS for the rest of this decision. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Through her representatives, 
Mrs P disagreed with that view. So the matter has been passed  to me to make  a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs P, but I havent  upheld this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Ive seen a copy  of the application form that Mrs P completed when PPI was sold. And it 
seems likely that the sale took place in a BOS  branch. I cant know  what was said during that 
meeting. So to help me decide  whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at what  Mrs P told 
us about it. And Ive also looked at the paperwork thats available  from the time. 
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mrs P would have known the PPI was optional 
and she didnt have  to take it out if she didnt want it. Mrs P told us that shed just signed the 
application where she was told by BOS.   
I dont doubt that what  Mrs P told us is what she honestly remembers about the PPI sale. I 
appreciate that the application form was completed  electronically. But having  looked at that 
form in some detail, I dont think BOS would  have been able to complete it without a 
discussion with Mrs P. I say this because the form contains personal  information that only 
she would  have known   for example,  her mothers maiden name,  whether  she had a shared 
letterbox and her occupation. 
In order for PPI to be added, theres  a box for Mrs P to mark to indicate she wanted a policy.  
It has been completed electronically with an x. Although I appreciate  Mrs P probably didnt 
complete the form herself on the BOS  computer, it seems likely to me that PPI would have 
been discussed at the same time as the form was completed. I can see that other financial  
products were declined  on the same application form. This makes  me think  there would have 
been discussion about which products she wanted. Overall, although I appreciate she 
doesnt now remember, I think Mrs P probably knew about  the PPI at the time she applied  
for the credit card. 
Ive proceeded  on the basis that this was an advised  sale. Thats  because  its a harder test 
for BOS to satisfy because it had to make  sure the policy was suitable for Mrs Ps needs.  To 
help me decide  whether it was suitable, Ive looked  at the terms and conditions of the policy.  
And Ive also looked at Mrs Ps personal  circumstances from the time. 
Ref: DRN25536112I can see if Mrs P had to make a claim on the policy, 10% of her credit card balance would 
have been repaid for every month  she was out of work or if she became unwell. Mrs P told 
us that she wouldnt  have received any sick pay from her employer. So it follows that I think 
the policy would have offered benefits  over and above those she had in place  from work.  
Mrs P told us that when  she took the PPI policy out, shed been in the same  employment  
role for ten years. I can see that she was employed  through an agency, but I dont  think that 
alone would  have made the PPI policy unsuitable. I can see she may have had trouble 
claiming if unemployment was a regular  feature of her work. But Mrs P had worked in the 
same place for over ten years, so I dont think this would have affected her.
Theres also a clause  that says Mrs P might not have been able to claim if she was 
employed on a fixed  term contract. But that wouldnt apply if shed been with the same 
employer for at least 24 months and her contract had been renewed at least  twice.  Its not 
clear to me whether Mrs P had a fixed term contract. But even if she did, over ten years, I 
think its likely that the contract would  have been renewed at least  twice during that time. 
So although  Mrs P worked for an agency, I dont  think this would  have stopped her being  
able to make  a claim on this PPI policy.  Mrs  P told us she was in good health when she 
bought the PPI. So I dont  think shed have been  affected by any of the policys  exclusions  
about medical conditions. 
Taking everything into account,  I think this policy probably was suitable for Mrs P. Even so, 
BOS still had to give Mrs P enough  information about the PPI policy so she could decide for 
herself whether  it was a good fit for her needs.  That information had to be fair, clear  and not 
misleading. 
I accept it is possible that BOS didnt tell Mrs P everything it should  have  done  about the 
PPI. But Ive set out above how I think the policy could have been helpful if Mrs P was out of 
work. And although  I appreciate she doesnt now remember, I think she probably chose to 
buy PPI at the time. On balance, I dont think Mrs P would have done anything  differently if 
shed been given more or better  information  about the cover.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs P, but I havent  upheld the complaint in respect of the mis-sale. 
Which means BOS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P. But BOS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because:  
BOS got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because  BOS  didnt  tell Mrs P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs P. 
Ref: DRN25536113But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs P any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN2553611