K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) mis-sold  him a fee-paying Select  account  in 
2001 and a fee-paying  Gold account in 2003.
background
Prior to this complaint being  brought  to this service, TSB refunded the account  fees for the 
Select account, with interest, in line with our approach, so we have not investigated  this sale.
Our adjudicators have  looked into Mr Ss complaint about the Gold  account. They thought  
that TSB mis-sold the Gold  account  on the basis that it wasnt  suitable for him, as he could 
not use the benefits that it came with. TSB did not agree as it thought  there was sufficient 
information to demonstrate that Mr S could  use the benefits.
Given this, the complaint  was passed  forward for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments and Ive decided  what  I think is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ss complaint.  
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, Im upholding this complaint. Id like to 
explain the reasons  for my decision.
Its my understanding that TSB recommended  the Gold account to Mr S. This means  that it 
had to assess his circumstances and ensure the selected account was a reasonable fit for 
him before recommending  it to him. 
At the time it was recommended, the main  benefits  included on the Gold  account were travel 
insurance, an interest free overdraft of £100  and preferential rates  on personal loans. TSB 
have said that it believes that the advice was suitable as Mr S took out a personal loan with 
a preferential rate and used his overdraft. But I am not satisfied that the savings Mr S could 
make on the personal  loan would ever outweigh the monthly account fee and while  I can see 
that Mr S was using  his overdraft prior to the upgrade, after the upgrade he barely used  his 
overdraft for over a year. So I dont  think that the recommendation would have  been  
appropriate for these  benefits. 
In addition to this, from the information  provided  I am satisfied that Mr S did not regularly  
travel to the extent that he would need  an annual travel insurance policy.  While I can see 
some evidence of travel  this is not until a few years  after the upgrade. This is not sufficient 
for me to believe that at the time the account was taken out he had a particular  need  for this 
benefit. 
In conclusion, having carefully thought about  everything provided, I dont think TSBs  
recommendation of the Gold account was fair or appropriate, as he did not need the benefits 
when it was taken  out. I dont  think  that Mr S wouldve taken the account  out if TSB hadnt 
Ref: DRN28228772made an unfair recommendation to him. So I think that he has lost out because  of what  TSB 
did wrong.
what TSB should  do to put things right
TSB should put Mr S back into the position he would be in, if it hadnt  mis-sold the 
Gold account to him So TSB should:
refund  and pay to Mr S all the fees he paid for the Gold account; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on each  of the above fees from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement.
If TSB is able to work  out any additional  savings Mr S has made from holding the account 
and it can show these calculations to him, it may, if it wants, deduct this additional saving 
from any compensation that is paid.
HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give     
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint. TSB Bank  plc should pay Mr S 
redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2822877