K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  will not refund payments he 
says he did not make from his bank  account.
background
Mr M disputes a number of payments totalling  £2,160 made to an online gambling website 
between 22 and 25 March  2018. He says that he last used his card on 22 March 2018  to 
withdraw money and hed then lost his card. He says Halifax didnt do enough to protect him 
from this fraud.
Halifax said that it wouldnt be refunding the payments. These  were  made  with the correct 
details from his card. It had previously dealt with fraud claims  from Mr M and told him how to 
keep his details  safe. This time one of the payments  was made  using the same IP address 
that Mr M had used to log on to his online bank account. And it didnt think hed reported  
what had happened  soon enough.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that:
-Mr M had told Halifax that must  have  lost his card on 24 March  2018. This would 
have been after the payments started and meant  that someone would have needed  
to be able to access  the card without him knowing. Hed now told this service that he 
hadnt had the card after the cash withdrawal on 22 March 2018.  And he doesnt 
recognise an attempt  to use his card on 23 March  2018 when the wrong  PIN was 
entered.
-Mr M wasnt able to explain  the match between the IP address hed used to log onto 
online banking and the one hed used for a payment  online.  Although  his ex partner 
may have had access to his phone she didnt have his online banking  details. Mr M 
said there were no other  visitors to the address where he lived who could have 
accessed his details and phone.
-The online gambling account had been  opened with the correct  personal details 
about Mr M including his date of birth,  address, correct email address and the contact 
number hed given  this service. A third party giving the correct contact details risked  
detection especially  through any welcome  email  and confirmation of the account.
-She didnt see why an opportunistic fraudster would have used access  to his card 
and details to gamble  when any winnings would likely have been paid back  to Mr Ms 
bank account.
-Mr M had also logged  onto his online account multiple times during this period and 
she didnt think it likely  he wouldnt have noticed the difference  in his available 
balance.
Mr M didnt  agree that the outcome was fair and he wanted his complaint to be reviewed  by 
an ombudsman. He said that he wasnt happy with the finding as hed been  held responsible  
for the payments even though it couldnt be proved these were  definitely made by him. He 
said that we hadnt investigated  attempted payments with his card for online shopping after 
hed reported  the betting payments.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN23835842I know Mr M wants me to say exactly what happened here but I wont  be able to do so. We 
provide informal dispute  resolution and on the basis  of the evidence available  decide what is 
most likely based on a balance of probabilities. I have noted  that further attempts were 
made to use his card after it had been reported stolen.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if the payments werent 
authorised Mr M wouldnt generally  be responsible for them.
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at his complaint:
What is the most likely explanation of how these payments  were  made?
Did Mr M authorise the payments on the account? 
Ive seen the information from the online gambling  company  about  Mr Ms account. This 
confirms it had the correct  information  about him including his email address and mobile 
phone number. And Halifax has shown that the payments  were  made with his card number  
including the CVV  verification number from the back of the card.  So Im satisfied  that the 
payments were authenticated.
I need to think  about  whether Mr M consented  to them. Our investigators already highlighted 
that Mr M used his phone  to access his online bank account during the period of the 
disputed transactions.  And I consider the fact that the IP address used for one of the 
payments corresponded  exactly to the one he used to access his account  on the same day 
important evidence. Even if say an unknown third party had found or taken his card that 
wouldnt account for this and also for that person knowing all his personal details.
The evidence Ive seen  shows that although  Mr M reported the disputed payments on 25 
March 2018 for some  reason  his card wasnt actually blocked  by Halifax then.  This didnt  
happen until he called to complain on 27 March 2018. The transactions  after 25 March 2018 
were all declined and included attempted ones for online shopping. I accept  that this may 
suggest someone continuing  to attempt to use the card knowing  it hadnt been blocked. I 
weigh this though against the other evidence in the case. 
To find that these payments were  made  by an unknown third party Id need to consider that 
all of the following  were  most likely:
An unknown third party was able to obtain Mr Ms card by 23 March  2018 even 
though he initially  said he remembered having it on 24 March 2018.
That person  was also able to discover  personal  information about Mr M sufficient to 
set up an online gambling account and pass that business checks. And risked using 
his genuine email and phone number  and didnt have any ability  to withdraw any 
winnings.
One of the payments was made by that person using exactly  the same  IP address as 
Mr M used to access his online bank account.
Mr M didnt notice  these pending payments when he accessed  his account using his 
phone or realised his card was missing any earlier. Thats  even though hed reported 
a similar  fraud in the past and been told how to keep his details  safe.
As I said above that third party not realising  the fraud had been  discovered continued 
to try to use the card.
Ref: DRN23835843These arent  all findings Im able to make as most likely based on the available  evidence. So 
on balance I think that Mr M either  made the payments himself or allowed someone  else to 
do so. In either case I find that these were authorised.
Im afraid this means  I dont have a basis to require Halifax to take any further  action.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2383584