K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Miss R says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss R has said it wasnt  made clear to her that the PPI was optional.  Ive seen a 
copy of Miss Rs credit card and PPI application.  The form has all of Miss Rs details 
and I think its likely  it was completed at the meeting.  So I think  its a reasonable 
reflection of what Miss R discussed with RBS at the time of sale.  On the form Miss R 
indicated that she wanted to buy Credit  Card Repayment Cover (the PPI) by ticking  a 
separate section  on the form. She didnt  have to do this if she didnt want the PPI. So 
I think RBS made  it clear that Miss R didnt have  to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Miss R so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss R got the information she needed  to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover.  
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss R.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss R because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss R about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Miss R, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss R has said - including what shes said about how RBS 
looked at her complaint and the delays it caused when it did this. Whilst I agree that it 
couldve done better here, I think £50 is reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. So this point doesnt  change  my decision.
Ref: DRN23167332what the business needs  to do
RBS has to pay back to Miss R any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Miss R any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
RBS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Miss R the difference between 
what Miss R owes  and what  she wouldve owed  if the commission and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should also pay Miss R 8%* simple  
interest if she paid off her credit card at some  point.
At also needs to pay Miss R the £50 compensation  it offered due to the way it looked at her 
complaint. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss R can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss R.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Miss R any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  and the £50 it has offered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2316733