K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about their mortgage,  which is now with Landmark Mortgages  
Limited. Its on interest only terms, and they say the interest rate is too high, which means  
they cant afford to switch  to repayment.
background
Mr and Mrs M have  an interest only mortgage, originally taken out with the former  Northern 
Rock. When Northern Rock collapsed, their mortgage was included in that part of its loan 
book which  moved  to the government-owned  vehicle  NRAM. Its since  been sold on to 
Landmark.
When they took their mortgage out, Mr and Mrs M had a fixed  interest rate. When the fixed  
rate expired  in 2011 the mortgage  reverted  to the standard variable rate (SVR). Its remained 
on NRAM and then Landmarks  SVR ever since.
Theres still some time left before the end of the term. But Mr and Mrs M are, rightly,  keen  to 
make sure their mortgage can be repaid. So theyve asked Landmark about converting it to 
repayment terms. Landmarks  willing to do that  but it would  remain on the SVR,  and since 
the monthly payments would double, Mr and Mrs M dont think thats affordable.  The 
mortgage continues  to be on interest only terms and Mr and Mrs M have been making 
regular overpayments.
Mr and Mrs M complained. They said it wasnt fair they were being  charged a high rate of 
interest, which was much  higher than other lenders offered. It meant  they were paying  too 
much in interest, and couldnt afford to convert  the mortgage so it could be paid off. They 
want the interest rate reduced  and what they consider theyve overpaid refunded to them.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, so Mr and Mrs M have asked for an 
ombudsman to review  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M took their mortgage  out in 2006  with the former Northern Rock. They took a 
five year fixed rate which ended in 2011.  The mortgage offer says that once the fixed  rate 
ends, the mortgage will revert to the SVR.
This is standard  for fixed rate mortgages with any lender. Nothing in the mortgage  offer says 
that Mr and Mrs M would  be entitled  to a new fixed rate once the old one expired  and, 
again, thats standard.
There is, however, a general expectation that once a rate expires, many  borrowers  will look 
to take a new one rather  than remain on the SVR. Sometimes thats with the existing lender, 
sometimes its with a new one. But while  thats  generally how mortgages  operate  in practice, 
theres nothing in the terms of the mortgage  itself  or in the regulators rules  that say it 
has to happen.
Ref: DRN27016202Once Northern  Rock collapsed, and was nationalised, it was no longer permitted to offer new 
interest rates to its customers by the terms of its government bailout and applicable legal 
restrictions. So Mr and Mrs M  in common with NRAMs  other  customers   went onto the 
SVR once their fixed rate ended. Their  particular mortgage entitles them  to an ongoing 
0.25% discount  on the SVR, and thats  what theyre now paying.
Following the mortgages  sale to Landmark, those restrictions no longer applied. In its 
response to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, Landmark said it couldnt  offer new interest  rates 
because it doesnt  have a lending licence. This isnt in fact correct,  and its unfortunate 
Landmark said this. In point of fact it does have the necessary regulatory permissions to vary 
existing mortgages  to change the interest  rate; its chosen not to do so as a commercial 
decision.
Generally speaking, a lender chooses to offer new fixed rates for one of two reasons   to 
attract new customers, or retain existing business. Landmark isnt an active lender taking  on 
new customers, so it hasnt taken the commercial decision  to offer interest rate products 
beyond its SVR. 
As Ive said,  theres nothing in the mortgage  terms or the regulators  rules that says it has to 
offer new products. But I also need  to consider whether its fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances for me to require it to offer Mr and Mrs M a lower interest rate.
I think its important to note that Mr and Mrs M arent being treated any differently from any 
other Landmark customer.  It doesnt offer new rates to anyone  and so all its other 
customers are in the same position.  To that extent theyre not being treated unfairly 
compared to other  Landmark borrowers.
I also note that theres nothing in the terms of the mortgage, or in what Landmark has done, 
that has stopped Mr and Mrs M moving  their mortgage to another lender. Theres no early 
repayment charge,  for example, and I cant see that Landmark has put any other barriers in 
their way. And I note that while Landmarks SVR is higher than the new interest rate 
products offered by other lenders, its not out of line with other lenders SVR rates.  
Its been suggested that Mr and Mrs M cant move their mortgage because  they have 
difficulty proving their self-employed income. I havent seen evidence  of any past 
applications theyve  made. Though if that is the case, its not something Landmark has 
caused or is responsible for.
But its worth  noting  that the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA  introduced  
new rules last October.  These new rules  allow lenders to take on existing customers of other  
lenders in situations like Mr and Mrs M by applying a less rigorous (or modified) 
affordability assessment.  This may make it easier  for Mr and Mrs M to move  their mortgage 
elsewhere in future. 
I would suggest  that this is something  Mr and Mrs M may want to seek independent 
mortgage advice  about. Individual lenders are currently deciding their response to the new 
rules, and deciding  whether  or not they want to use this new flexibility.  An independent  
mortgage adviser will be able to assist Mr and Mrs M by advising them whether new lenders  
would now be willing to take them on  and assisting them  with an application if appropriate. 
If they can move to a new active lender, theyll also be able to take a new lower interest rate. 
Ref: DRN27016203I think Mr and Mrs M are doing the responsible thing by wanting to ensure their mortgage 
can be paid off by the end of the term. Landmark  is, rightly, willing  to support them  in this by 
converting the mortgage to repayment terms if its affordable  to do so. But the issue is that 
the higher payments which would result  would make the mortgage unaffordable. If Mr and 
Mrs M are able to move to a new lender at a lower rate, they might then be able to afford 
repayment terms  or, at least, be able to make higher overpayments to reduce the balance 
informally. 
Landmark offered  to refer them to a particular independent mortgage adviser as part of its 
resolution of this complaint and I think thats a fair way to assist  Mr and Mrs M. But I dont 
think I can fairly require it to reduce the interest rate on their mortgage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I think Landmark Mortgages Limited has made a fair offer to resolve  
this complaint by offering to refer Mr and Mrs M to independent regulated  mortgage advice. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2020. 
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2701620