K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Gain Credit  LLC trading as Lending  Stream irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about nine instalment loans Lending Stream  provided to Mr H between 
June 2014 and October 2015. A summary  of Mr Hs borrowing  history  is set out below:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
Amount
1 21/06/2014 24/12/2014 6 £80.00 £43.20
2 14/02/2015 28/04/2015 6 £80.00 £37.12
3 21/02/2015 27/03/2015 6 £50.00 £60.32
4 07/03/2015 28/04/2015 6 £60.00 £87.68
5 04/04/2015 28/04/2015 6 £90.00 £93.58
6 15/04/2015 28/04/2015 6 £80.00 £122.38
7 15/05/2015 28/05/2015 6 £80.00 £35.20
8 22/05/2015 28/05/2015 6 £120.00 £88.00
9 14/10/2015 not closed 6 £900.00 £403.20
Mr H says he fell into a cycle with the lender  where he became more reliant on the loans and 
the high interest  and charges resulted in him being trapped. Mr H has told us he was 
constantly worried. He says he struggled  to pay rent and the loans caused him to borrow  
from several lenders  which left him in more debt and in a far worse  position than he had 
been originally.  Hes also said he suffered with anxiety as a result of trying to keep up with 
the repayments due.
Our adjudicator thought the loans from loan 6 to loan 9 shouldnt have been given. He said 
that by this time Mr Hs pattern of borrowing  suggested that he was becoming increasingly  
reliant on short-term loans which were unsustainable and ought to have alerted Lending 
Stream that Mr H might have been  having  problems managing his money.  Lending Stream  
accepted this view and offered to refund the interest and charges paid towards loans  6, 7, 8 
and 9. It also agreed to remove all adverse entries in relation to these  loans from Mr Hs 
credit file. Mr H didnt  accept this offer and asked that this matter be referred  to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr H could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Ref: DRN24144892the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.  
Lending Stream told us that for each loan application, it carried  out rigorous affordability 
assessments. The monthly  instalment loan was designed specifically to lower the monthly 
repayments and allow the customer to repay the loan over a longer period  of time. 
Looking at everything and on balance, I dont  think I can safely say that Lending Stream 
failed to do enough when it was making  its assessment about the first five loans. These  were  
Mr Hs first few loans  with Lending Stream and Mr H was in the early  stages of his 
relationship with Lending Stream  when  he took these out.
Taking everything into account,  even if Lending  Stream should have carried  out some  more 
checks by the time Mr H took out his fifth loan, I dont think its likely these checks  wouldve  
showed anything  that might  have caused concern to Lending Stream at this stage, taking the 
smaller amounts Mr H had to repay  into account  and that the sums were relatively modest 
compared to his declared income. So, I cant safely say Lending Stream  did anything wrong 
to lend Mr H loans 1 and 5.
Ref: DRN24144893Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Lending Streams  lending history with Mr H, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Lending Stream  should  reasonably  have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful.  And so Lending Stream  should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point Lending Stream ought to have realised Mr H was not managing  to repay 
his loans sustainably.  Mr H had taken out 6 loans within 10 months and he had been 
indebted to Lending  Stream for all that time save for 52 days. So Lending Stream 
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr H was having to borrow  further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving  in his finances and that Mr 
Hs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Hs first loan was for £80 and loan 6 was for the same  amount. So, it doesnt 
seem likely that Mr Hs need for cash was reducing which  also points to him having a 
longer term need for funds. So, at this point Lending Stream ought to have  known 
that Mr H was not likely  borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall  in their income but to 
meet an ongoing  need. 
From  loan 6 onwards  Mr H was provided  with a new loan without  taking into account 
that repayment of his previous loans  4 and 5 were still outstanding. 
Mr H wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Lending Stream. Loan 9 
was taken out sixteen months  after Mr Hs first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr H 
had taken out a loan of £80 initially. This increased to £900  almost 16 months later. 
Mr H had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Lending  
Stream over an extended period.
I think that Mr H lost out because Lending Stream continued to provide borrowing from loan 
6 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr H borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Hs ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 6-9 and Lending Stream  should  put things 
right as it has offered  to do.
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
Lending Stream shouldnt  have given Mr H loans 6-9.
If Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debts Lending Stream  should  buy these back if it 
is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Lending Stream  is not able to buy back 
the debts then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined  below.
Ref: DRN24144894A) Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made  by Mr H towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything you have  already refunded.
B) Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual  payments made by 
Mr H which  were considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mr H originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Lending  Stream  should remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance  on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr H as though  they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr H having made 
overpayments then Lending Stream should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Lending Stream should then refund the amounts 
calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any principal Lending 
Stream has already written-off. If this results in a surplus, then the surplus  should  be paid to 
Mr H. However,  if there is still an outstanding balance then Lending Stream should  try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr H. Lending Stream  shouldnt pursue outstanding 
balances made  up of principal Lending  Stream has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern  of Mr Hs borrowing for loans 6-9 including  refinances/top-ups means  
any information recorded about  him is adverse, so Lending Stream  should  remove  these 
loans entirely from Mr Hs credit file. Lending  Stream  do not have  to remove  loans 6-9 from 
Mr Hs credit file until these have been repaid, but Lending  Stream  should still remove any 
adverse information  recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending  Stream to deduct tax from this interest.  Lending 
Stream should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for 
one.
Ref: DRN24144895My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Hs complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2414489