K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) have unfairly declined his motor 
insurance claim and accused  him acting fraudulently. 
background
Mr H holds a motor  insurance policy with AXA. He made a claim under the policy in 
October 2018 after the door mirror of his car was damaged  and needed replacing. AXA 
accepted the claim and told Mr H to get the mirror  repaired by a garage of his choice  and to 
send them the invoice. 
Mr H says he visited the official  dealer for his vehicle to source a replacement  mirror,  but 
says he was told he would need  to wait as they did not have  any in stock.  So he says he 
asked the official  dealer  to let him know when it became available, at which point he would 
send payment and arrange for collection of the part. 
As Mr H was going to be out of the UK, he says he gave  the cash  to a courier  to pay for the 
mirror when it became available, and to deliver it to his local garage who would carry out the 
repair work and send him the bill. Mr H says he received an email from the official  dealer on 
23 October 2018 saying  that the mirror had arrived for collection, which had an invoice 
attached. AXA were subsequently  provided with invoices from the official  dealer  stating  how 
much the part had cost,  and also from the garage charging for the same  amount plus labour 
costs. But AXA had concerns regarding the provenance and authenticity of the documents 
submitted. 
AXA carried  out an investigation and concluded that the invoice from the official dealer  was 
fraudulent and had been  tampered with, which they suspected was an attempt to exaggerate 
the claim.  So they decided to decline it. Mr H complained and denied  having provided 
fraudulent documents. In summary,  he says:
There is no doubt that the mirror  was replaced and fitted by the garage,  which they 
would have charged for;
He was out of the country  at the time the repair took place,  and was not in a position 
to know that the invoices were not correct;  and
In any event, the alleged fraudulent Pro-Forma  invoice came  from the garage  that 
he had entrusted  to deal with the matter for him, which  he had just forwarded  on to 
AXA.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Hs complaint.  He did not think AXA had acted unfairly in 
concluding that the documents  provided were not genuine. So he didnt think  it was 
unreasonable for them to decline the claim based  on the evidence available.  Mr H disagreed 
and requested a final decision. So the matter has been passed to me to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have decided  not to 
uphold it. 
The policy terms and conditions set out:
Ref: DRN26447512You must not act in a fraudulent manner. If you or anyone acting for you
Make  a claim under the policy knowing the claim to be false  or fraudulently 
exaggerated in any way or
Make  a statement  in support  of a claim knowing the statement to be false in 
any way or
Submit a document  in support of a claim knowing  the document to be forged 
or false in any way
Thenwe will not pay the claim
I consider this policy term to be consistent with The Insurance  Act 2015 (section 12) which  
sets out the various remedies available to an insurer if it can be shown that a claim has been 
made fraudulently. This includes the right not to pay the claim. But in order  to demonstrate 
that a claim has been made fraudulently  which includes exaggerating a claim for financial 
gain  they need to provide evidence that shows its more likely than not that this is the case. 
This could  be one piece of strong  evidence or even a series  of inconsistencies or 
circumstances which, when taken  together, are enough to indicate that the claim was made 
fraudulently.
I have also taken account of the Fraud Act 2006,  which defines fraud as, amongst  other 
things, dishonestly making a false representation, whether express or implied, in order to 
make oneself a gain or cause another loss; and a representation is false if its untrue or 
misleading and the representor knows that it is or might be untrue or misleading.
So the starting point in this case is to consider whether theres  enough evidence  to say its 
more likely that Mr Hs claim was made  fraudulently. And there are several inconsistencies 
and irregularities with the documentation provided  that would suggest this is likely:
Mr H forwarded an email to AXA on 29 October  2019, which  was seemingly  sent to 
him by the official dealership on 23 October 2019,  stating that the door mirror had 
arrived and was ready for collection  (with  an invoice enclosed). However,  this 
particular dealership has since confirmed that there is no record  of the part ever 
being sold by them on or around  this date  which casts doubt on the authenticity  of 
the email Mr H provided and raises  questions as to where  the part was actually 
sourced from and what it actually cost.
The agent from the official dealership who is named on the Pro-forma Invoice 
provided to AXA has said it has been doctored as the words  should read Pro-forma 
and not Invoice  and that other items on the document  have also been doctored.  He 
has said the account number shown does  not exist, and that the document  was not 
produced by them.
Despite this, the invoice submitted from the garage that fitted  the mirror still 
incorporates the exact cost price that had been  quoted on the doctored  invoice, 
which was being claimed as part of Mr Hs insurance claim. 
There is no evidence to demonstrate where the mirror was actually purchased,  or 
how much  was paid for it, and the garage said they were  under no obligation to say 
where the new mirror had come from.
Mr H had an existing relationship with the local garage and always uses their 
services  and has said that they have sometimes undertaken work  for free for him.
So Mr H has said that he arranged for a courier to pick up the mirror from the official  
dealership he visited in London  and has forwarded an email  that is supposedly from this 
Ref: DRN26447513dealership saying the part was ready  to collect.  But the official  dealers have confirmed  that 
this information  and invoice has been fabricated. Mr H says he has no way of knowing these 
were not genuine  as he was not in the country  at the time. But given that the documentation 
was sent to and forwarded from his email account  to AXA, I consider  it more likely than not 
that he would have known. 
Mr H has not been  able to provide any evidence of the mirrors  actual cost or provenance. 
And given  that the part was not purchased  from the official  dealership  at the listed cost 
(which is the amount  that has been  invoiced by the garage), I think  its fair to assume that it 
was likely obtained for a lower price elsewhere. 
So overall  taking into account  all of the above evidence and inconsistencies together   Im 
persuaded theres enough evidence to suggest  it is more likely than not the claim was 
dishonestly presented (or exaggerated) for the purpose of making  a gain at AXAs expense.  
Im therefore  satisfied it was fraudulent.
AXA have already chosen a remedy available to them under the Insurance Act 2015,  section 
12(1)(a) where they have  chosen not to pay the claim. And where part of a claim is 
exaggerated and would materially  have prejudiced the insurers  liability,  they are entitled to 
refuse the entire  claim,  even if parts  of the claim were in fact genuine  as the law does not 
separate the genuine parts from the dishonest  part (see the Supreme Court  judgment in 
Versloot Dredging  v HDI Gerling Industrie Versicherung AG [2016] UKSC 45).
So, for the reasons given above,  I dont think AXA acted  unreasonably  when they refused to 
pay Mr Hs claim on the evidence  available.  And it follows  that I do not uphold  his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2644751