K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs unhappy about the early  payment  interest  charge on a loan he took out with 
Santander UK Plc. 
background
In August  2018  Mr G took out a loan with Santander. Hes unhappy that when he asked for a 
settlement figure he found out he would  have to pay 30 days penalty  interest.  Mr G says he 
would never  have taken out the loan if hed known hed be paying 30 days penalty  interest if 
he paid it off early. He wants this refunded and compensation.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
The credit  agreement  and terms and conditions of the loan say interest will be 
calculated on a daily basis  and if the loan is paid off early there will be 30 days  
penalty interest applied to the settlement figure. 
Santanders acknowledged it gave Mr G an incorrect settlement figure.  But its 
credited his account with £75 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by this.
Santander also accepts it couldve better  explained the penalty  interest  charge. It has 
recognised it shouldve made clearer  the difference between making a lump sum 
payment, when no penalty  interest  arises, and paying off the loan early when penalty 
interest is payable. Its refunded the £81.85 settlement interest and credited an 
additional £25 compensation  as an apology for the inconvenience caused.
This is all fair and reasonable and he will not be asking Santander to pay anything  
more.
Mr G doesnt agree  and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  He says he wouldve behaved 
differently if given correct  information. Santander  made an error.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has acknowledged it couldve dealt with Mr G better.  Its accepted it couldve 
explained things  better to him particularly about when the penalty interest would be applied  
and the difference between paying off the loan in full and in part. It also gave him an 
incorrect settlement figure.
Mr G says he wouldve behaved  differently and not taken out the loan if things had been 
explained to him correctly.  But the terms and conditions of his loan were sent to him and 
brought to his attention  before he signed  it. They clearly  say that if the loan is repaid early  
Santander may apply  30 days penalty interest to the settlement figure. Mr G was also sent 
various documents that set out his right to cancel the agreement within 14 days. But he 
obviously chose not to do so.
Santander has already refunded the penalty interest  added to the settlement figure and paid 
Mr G a total of £100 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience  hes been  caused.
Ref: DRN24138442Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think thats fair for 
the distress and inconvenience  Mr G experienced as a result of Santanders errors. And 
although I recognise Mr Gs frustration and strength of feeling, I dont think I can reasonably 
ask it to pay anything  more as he would like.
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2413844