K822xcomplaint
The Estate of Mr H (the Estate) is unhappy  that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) turned
down a claim made on Mr Hs travel insurance  policy. The complaint is being bought by the
executor of the Estate, Mrs R.
background 
Mr H renewed  an annual  travel insurance  policy, which  was due to start in February  2018.
He booked a holiday to Europe in July 2018, and was expecting  to travel in November  2018.
In or around the end of September 2018,  Mr H was diagnosed with cancer and as he was
due to undergo  treatment,  he cancelled his holiday.  He made  a claim under the policy  to
cover the cancellation  costs that he was unable to recover elsewhere (the claim).
IPA declined the claim as Mr H hadnt  disclosed  at the time of taking out the policy  he was
under investigation  for Atrial Fibrillation (AF). IPA says Mr H was asked questions  about this
at the time of renewing the policy and hed answered this question carelessly. Had Mr H
declared this, it says he wouldnt have offered him the policy at that time; instead he
wouldve been asked  to call back once the results  of the investigation were known.
The Estate doesnt think thats fair  particularly as the reason Mr H had to cancel his holiday
wasnt anything to do with his heart  condition; it was because of his cancer diagnosis. And
he wasnt undergoing  any tests relating to that particular condition  at the time he took out the
policy  and nor was it being investigated.  So a complaint was brought to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint; he didnt  think  IPA had unfairly declined the
claim. The Estate disagreed so the complaint was passed to me to look at everything afresh 
and make a decision.
I issued my provisional decision in December 2018  setting out the reasons why I was 
intending to partially uphold  this complaint  and directing IPA to refund  the premium  Mr H 
paid for the policy. IPA replied, accepting  my provisional decision.  The Estate didnt respond.
my findings
Again, Id like to start my passing on my sincere condolences to Mr Hs family  at what must  
be a very difficult time for them.
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  and having received no further  comments  
from the parties, Im not departing from my provisional decision.
When considering  whether  IPA has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this 
complaint, Ive taken  into account the law in the area  which sets out an insurers  remedies 
where a consumer has deliberately, recklessly or carelessly misrepresented  the situation 
about things like their pre-existing medical  conditions when taking out the policy.
When a consumer takes out insurance,  theyll be asked questions  about themselves and the
risks they want to insure. The insurer then uses that information to weigh up whether it
wishes to cover that risk and how much it will charge for doing so.
Ref: DRN22715252The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) places  a
duty on consumers  to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when entering
an insurance contract.  They  must  provide the insurer with accurate information to allow  it to
assess the risk. If they dont, there  are some circumstances where an insurer  may be able to
avoid the insurance  contact  but thats  only if theres been a qualifying  misrepresentation. In
the absence of this, and where the consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation, then the insurer cant take any action at all, even  if they were provided
with the wrong  information.
Under CIDRA, deciding  whether Mr H took reasonable care is to be done in the light of all
the relevant circumstances.  That can involve  a number of things including whether the
questions Mr H was asked at the time of renewing the policy  were  sufficiently clear.
It looks like Mr H took out the policy over the phone. IPA says that during that call Mr H
wouldve been asked  a number of questions, including:
Is anyone you wish to insure on this policy awaiting a diagnosis, surgery,  treatment,
test or investigations (or their results) for any medical condition,  or suffering
symptoms that have not yet been  discussed  with a doctor?
I refer to this as the medical question.
Unfortunately weve  been  told that a recording of the call is no longer available  so I cant be
sure whether  Mr H was asked the medical question. However, IPA has given me a
screenshot of the questions it says wouldve been  asked  at the time and from what  the
Estates representative has told us, Mr H didnt dispute being asked the medical  question.
So, I accept he was most likely asked it. Im also satisfied that its a clear question  and Mr H 
responded no to it.
The crux of the issue I have to decide is whether Mr H took reasonable care when answering
the medical question   or whether he made a qualifying  misrepresentation.
Mr Hs GP provided IPA with a completed  travel  claims  medical  certificate in support  of the
claim Mr H made under  the policy. The following question  appears on the form:
at the time the travel  insurance was purchased was the patient:
awaiting diagnosis, surgery, treatment, tests  or investigations (or their results)  for any
medical condition?
The GP answers yes to this question. And when asked to then provide details the GP 
writes: AF rate not controlled with digoxin. Referred to cardiology  for echo (The reference
to echo is an echocardiogram).
So, Im satisfied that Mr H answered the medical  question incorrectly.  And based on what  
Ive seen, Im persuaded that Mr H made a qualifying misrepresentation as he answered the 
medical question  carelessly. Ill explain why.
Mr H has recently,  and very sadly, passed  away, so Im unable  to ask him questions around
what he thought  the purpose  of the echocardiogram was at the time of taking out the policy.
The Estates representative has said Mr H honestly believed he wasnt  having  any further
tests for AF.
Although the GP did provide extracts of some of Mr Hs GP records  when completing the
Ref: DRN22715253medical certificate, I havent  seen an entry confirming  Mr Hs echocardiogram referral, any
notes confirming any conversation the GP may have had with Mr H about this (or the
reasons for the referral)  or the referral letter written by the GP to the hospital which  might
provide some context  around why the referral for the echocardiogram was made.
Ive asked the Estates representative to obtain Mr Hs GP notes from around that time, but
Ive been told Mr Hs death has, understandably, hit his wife very hard and he doesnt want
to burden her further with having  to chase Mr Hs GP for additional  information.
I, of course, understand but without this information  I dont know,  for example, whether Mr H
made a specific appointment with GP because hed any concerns with his heart,  whether  it
was a routine  appointment or whether the issue was mentioned  in passing when visiting the
GP for an entirely unrelated matter.
Further if IPA had been able to provide a recording of the call during which the policy was
sold, I may have got an insight an insight into whether Mr H had an understanding of the
purpose of the echocardiogram.  There may have been, for example, some  discussion
between Mr H and IPAs  representative before Mr H answered the medical  question  which
mightve shown whether  Mr H had made  a link between the echocardiogram referral and
being under  further investigation for this condition (or reasonably  ought  to have done).
But as the GP says Mr Hs AF wasnt being  controlled with medication, in the absence of any
further information  particularly the medical records  from around the time the referral for the
AF was made  I think its likely that Mr H was at least aware  that his GP had requested  he
have an echocardiogram to investigate  why the medication wasnt working. I think thats
more likely than the GP informing IPA at the time of taking out the policy  Mr H was
undergoing tests or investigation for AF (or awaiting the results  of these) but not telling Mr H
the real reason for the referral for the echocardiogram  at the time.
Ive taken into account that the Estates representative says Mr H declared AF to IPA at the
time of taking out the policy. So it looks like his condition was at the forefront of his mind,
and that he wasnt  looking to deceive  IPA in any way. That may be the case, and IPA hasnt
suggested  and Ive seen nothing  to conclude  that Mr H answered the medical question
recklessly. But Im satisfied he was careless when answering it.
Ive also taken into account that the medical  condition being investigated was one that Mr H
had been diagnosed with years ago and IPA had accepted the risk, and sold the travel
insurance to him, regardless. However, Im persuaded that had Mr H answered yes
to the medical  question, he wouldve been  prevented from taking out this policy; it didnt
matter whether the condition was one that had been  diagnosed previously and already
declared.
Thats because answering the medical  question in this way wouldve automatically prompted
a message to say that the policy couldnt  be offered at this time. I dont think  thats
unreasonable in this case, because at the time the question was asked, its possible Mr Hs
diagnosed condition may have got worse,  or something else couldve shown up on the
echocardiogram that mightve affected  cover.
So Im satisfied IPA has reasonably declined the claim made on the policy  on the basis  that 
the policy would never have  been in place had Mr H answered the medical question  with 
reasonable care. However,  as I think Mr H answered the medical  question  carelessly  and 
not deliberately  falsely  or recklessly  I direct  IPA to pay back, to the Estate, the premiums 
Ref: DRN22715254Mr H paid for the policy together with simple  interest at a rate of 8% per year*  calculated 
from the date on which  Mr H paid the premium to the date it pays  this back. IPA agreed to do 
this.
my final decision
I partially uphold  the complaint brought by the Estate of Mr H and direct  Inter Partner 
Assistance SA to put things right by doing  what Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R, as executor 
and on behalf  of the Estate of Mr H, to accept or reject my decision before 
15 February 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
*If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off
income tax from any interest  paid,  it should  say how much its taken off. It should also give a
certificate to Mrs R, as executor of the Estate showing this if requested.  That way the tax can
be reclaimed from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2271525