K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains Santander UK Plc wouldnt  allow him to port his mortgage  to a new 
property. He says that Santander didnt fairly consider his circumstances and he is now on a 
higher interest  rate than he otherwise  would  have been, with a new lender.    
background
In April 2016 Mr W and his ex-wife  were ordered by a court to sell their two properties. 
Mr W lived in one property whilst his ex-wife lived in the other. Mr W contacted Santander to 
request porting his Flexible  Offset mortgage, to a new property. He also asked about adding 
his new partner onto the mortgage.  
Santanders porting  team  told Mr W that to port the mortgage and interest  rate he would be 
required to complete the onward purchase  on the same day he redeemed  his current 
mortgage. It also said that if he had a second property at the time of application  then this 
would be considered as a retained property and the mortgage and running costs of that 
property would be taken  into account when assessing affordability.
Mr W also wanted to apply for further borrowing  when he moved  the mortgage, and 
Santanders porting  team  agreed  they could consider  this. Mr W spoke to Santander a 
number of times during April 2017 about the affordability of the mortgage  he needed. He 
says he was told that the mortgage he needed would be affordable. 
However, Mr W says when he spoke to Santander on 29 April 2017, Santander told him it 
had stress  tested the full liability on the retained property and considered  the application to 
port the mortgage unaffordable. 
Mr W complained  to Santander as he thought it had given him the impression that it would 
be able to lend him the amount he needed. Santander responded to say that his application  
to port his mortgage and add a partner had been  declined, and that decision was made in 
line with its policies. It said that Mr W could  not appeal and gave him referral  rights to this 
service.
Mr W then took a mortgage with an alternative  lender. That interest rate is fixed  for five years 
at 2.19% and included  arrangement costs.   
Mr W referred a complaint to our service. In summary, he said that Santanders application  
of its porting,  and retained property policy wasnt fair, taking into account his particular 
circumstances. He also said that he had been  given the impression that Santander would be 
able to lend him the amount he needed,  until it told him it couldnt on 29 April 2017, and he 
questioned the criteria Santander applied in stress  testing his outstanding commitments.
Our investigator said that Santander wasnt wrong  to apply the affordability tests as Mr W 
was seeking further borrowing and had requested  to add his new partner on to the 
mortgage. These would  be considered material changes to the mortgage and in line with 
mortgage regulation;  the application  was therefore subject to stricter affordability  tests.  So 
our investigator didnt believe Santander  were  wrong to decline Mr Ws application due to 
affordability based on the stress test.  
Ref: DRN20146042Santander agreed with the investigators  findings  but Mr W didnt.  He said whilst  he 
understood why Santander needed to take into account the material  change it didnt fairly  
take into account his circumstances overall.  He didnt believe that Santander  had treated him 
as a vulnerable  consumer  and did not have the correct policies in place to support him. Mr W 
asked for an ombudsmans decision and the case was passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on the case.  In summary, I said;
Santander has provided a copy of Mr Ws mortgage  offer. This says that if he moves home, 
he may be able to transfer his mortgage to another property,  subject  to certain  conditions.  
Its also provided the criteria which needed to be met  at the time of his request - in order  
for Mr W to port his mortgage. This says that customers with Flexible Offset mortgages like 
Mr W, would  only be able to port their mortgage  rate if they complete the purchase of their 
new home on the same day they pay off their existing mortgage. 
From what  Mr Ws said, I think he accepts that this is Santanders policy,  but hes questioned 
its fairness. However, I think Santander  made  it clear from the outset that Mr Ws request to 
move his mortgage would be subject to criteria, and Im satisfied its followed that. So I dont 
think it did anything wrong in this respect.
In the most part, I think Mr Ws complaint is about the approach  Santander took to assessing 
the affordability of the changes he proposed to make to his mortgage. The rules of mortgage 
regulation  set out in the Mortgages and Home  Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(MCOB)  say that lenders are required to assess the affordability of a mortgage. The rules 
also say (amongst other things) that a lender doesnt need to do this if the new mortgage  
doesnt involve  any extra borrowing and theres no other change  which is likely to be 
material to affordability.  In this case, Mr W proposed to remove  one party on the mortgage 
and add another, which Im satisfied would be material  to the mortgages  affordability. He 
also asked to borrow more funds, so Im satisfied that it was fair for Santander to carry out 
an affordability test. 
Mr Ws also questioned whether or not it was fair for Santander  to apply its policy  in relation 
to retained properties.  Again, Santander  has provided its policy in relation to this and Im 
satisfied that it was followed.  Im aware that Mr W doesnt think  Santander  took his individual 
circumstances into account  in applying the policy  and he told Santander during the calls 
that a court  had ordered the sale of the property his ex-wife was living in. But Santander  had 
also made a reasonable point  that the property  had been on the market for sometime, and 
despite having lowered the asking price, was still not under  offer.  I dont think  that either 
Santander or Mr W could have been  certain about what would happen  with that property,  
and for that reason,  I think it was reasonable for Santander to apply its retained property 
policy in assessing  Mr Ws mortgage  application.
Ive listened to the telephone calls that Mr W had with Santander during April 2017,  as well 
as an initial  one in February 2017.  Im satisfied that during the calls before 
29 April 2017, Santander made it clear  that the information it had given Mr W about  the 
affordability of the mortgage he wanted,  was subject to application, and was always 
provisional. And it simply said that it was an application it could consider, but it would  need  
to take into account  his commitment for a retained  property. 
Ref: DRN20146043During those calls Mr W and Santander  talked about a number of hypothetical scenarios 
which could influence the affordability of the mortgage he wanted. Whilst I accept that 
Santander said that it could consider lending Mr W up to £375,000, there  are also points at 
which Santander told Mr W that the mortgage he wanted would  not be affordable.  So Im 
satisfied that Santander  didnt give Mr W the impression that his application would be 
affordable. 
In Mr Ws call with Santander on 29 April 2017  he asked it to consider an application to port 
his mortgage and increase his borrowing to approximately £369,000. Santander explained 
that itd need to complete  a full credit check,  and part of the application would involve Mr W 
completing a budget  planner which it would send to him. Santander told Mr W to leave the 
section about  retained properties blank, because it would take that information  from him on 
the telephone. Once Mr W gave Santander  that information, it told him that it would only 
consider lending him up to £212,000. It explained  that that was because  it had stress tested 
his responsibility  for the retained property,  and had it not done so it would otherwise be 
affordable. Santander  offered to seek clarification  from its underwriters, but subsequently 
told Mr W that it wouldnt take the application forward and wrote  to him to say that his 
application had been declined.
Im aware that Mr W is particularly unhappy with the stress  test Santander carried  out on 
his retained property. During the phone call of 29 April 2017 it told Mr W that whilst the 
running costs of the retained property were  around  £700 per month, by its calculations  
which included converting the mortgage to repayment instead of interest only,  and 
increasing the interest rate  the running  costs could raise to around £2,000  per month.  
Stress testing is something that is required as part of an assessment of affordability  under 
MCOB. It requires  lenders to take into account a customers ability  to meet  their mortgage  
payments in the event of future interest rate increases.  
MCOB 11.6.18(2)  specifically says
In coming  to a view as to likely future  interest rates, a mortgage lender must have regard to:
 
(a) market expectations;  and
(b) any prevailing Financial Policy Committee recommendation  on appropriate interest-rate 
stress tests;
and must  be able to justify  the basis it uses by reference to (a) and (b).
The Financial Policy  Committee  recommendations in place at the time, were the 
recommendations made in June 2014. Those  said, with specific reference  to stress testing;
When assessing affordability, mortgage  lenders should apply an interest rate stress  test that 
assesses whether borrowers  could still afford  their mortgages if, at any point over the first 
five years of the loan,  Bank Rate were  to be 3 percentage  points higher than the prevailing 
rate at origination.  
Ref: DRN20146044The mortgage Mr W jointly held on the retained property was mostly interest only, but did 
have a portion,  roughly one sixth of the outstanding capital, on a repayment basis.  The 
interest rate applied  to the interest  only portion of that mortgage tracked at 0.49%  above the 
Bank of England  (BOE) base rate, which at the time was 0.25%. Given that I think that 
Santander acted  fairly  in taking the retained property into account  when assessing 
affordability, based on the above, I therefore  think that Santander  was entitled to assess  
Mr Ws affordability as if the retained property  was subject to an interest rate of around  
3.75%. Based on the figures that Santander  gave Mr W over the phone,  I think its clear its 
stress test used an interest  rate around  this, but its calculations were based  on that 
mortgage being converted to repayment,  rather than mostly interest only as things were. 
Mr W has questioned whether it was appropriate for Santander to stress  test his outstanding  
commitment on that particular mortgage  as if it had been converted to repayment. 
Santander has given  us a copy of the mortgage offer in relation to the property it considered  
retained. It says that Santander  understood that Mr W (and his ex-wife) would be using an 
investment linked policy to repay the loan at the end of the term. It advised  them  to regularly 
check the performance of the investment to ensure it was adequate  to repay the capital 
balance at the end of the term. However, Mr Ws also given us a financial remedy  order   
dated April 2016   which ordered the division of assets between Mr W and his ex-wife.  The 
order only made reference to one investment policy - a share plan - which was valued  at 
£4,830. Taking  into account that the balance of the interest only portion of the outstanding  
mortgage was approximately £250,000, I think its fair to assume that there  wasnt a suitable  
repayment vehicle  in place. 
This is relevant because  MCOB  11.6.11  gives examples of committed expenditure lenders 
should take into account when assessing affordability. It specifies that lenders should take 
into account the cost of a repayment  strategy  where the customer  has an interest-only  
mortgage. I anticipate that Mr W may argue that an order had been  made  to sell that 
property, which wouldve repaid the mortgage  balance. But that wouldnt have been an 
acceptable strategy as ultimately, there was no guarantee this would happen. As a result,  a 
suitable repayment strategy would have been  to convert the mortgage to a repayment basis.  
And for that reason, I think it was fair for Santander  to stress test Mr Ws outstanding 
commitment of the mortgage  on the retained property, as if it had been  converted to a 
repayment mortgage. 
Overall, for the reasons  explained above,  Im satisfied that Santander followed its policies, 
and treated Mr W fairly in applying them. So, I think it was fair for Santander to decline 
Mr Ws porting  application. 
Mr W responded making a number  of points. In summary, he said;
-He accepted that Santander was allowed to carry  out an affordability test but said 
was not applied fairly in the circumstances  or in line with the Financial Policy 
Committee guidelines. And the full affordability  test produced a result significantly 
different than hed be led to believe;
-Santander didnt  recognise his financial vulnerability and adjust its application 
process or criteria appropriately and should not have  interpreted the property in 
question as retained as it was due to be sold and under offer;
Ref: DRN20146045-Santander didnt  provide all of the calls he considered relevant to the complaint,  
specifically one of 26 April 2017 when Santander said that it was able to lend 
£375,000 subject to application, as well as one on 2 May 2017 when Santander gives 
details about how it stress tested  Mr Ws application and used a 7.5% interest  rate for 
the purpose of the stress test, and he told it the property in question  was now under 
offer;
-My provisional decision didnt address why he believed the affordability was 
inaccurate and not in line with relevant mortgage  regulation,  for example, why future  
changes of circumstances were not taken into account, such  as his change in 
financial circumstances once the retained property  had been sold;
-Questioned why Santander didnt apply  its retained property policy  to when it agreed 
his ex-wifes transfer of the other  mortgage  he was party to, without his knowledge  or 
consent; and
-Santander should not have stress  tested  the retained property as if it had been 
converted to repayment, but in any case,  he had access  to pension arrangements  
which had been valued at around  £240,000 in 2015 split between two parties, and 
both parties had access to 25% cash free tax after 15 years of 2015. He said that 
could have formed part of a repayment vehicle plan. 
The case  has been passed back to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision  for the same reasons. 
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr W made a very detailed submission with a 
number of arguments. Im not going  to address  each  one in similar detail as I dont consider 
it necessary to do so to explain  the outcome Ive reached. Whilst I have fully considered  all 
of the points Mr W has made, my final decision will focus on what I consider to be the points 
most relevant to the outcome of the case.  
Mr W made a number  of points about  whether  it was fair for Santander  to apply its retained 
property policy given  his circumstances.  Hes also questioned the appropriateness of the 
policy. Ive taken into account all of the points  Mr W made about his circumstances in 
determining whether Santander  treated him fairly.
As my provisional decision  explained in detail, I think Santander acted fairly  by applying its 
retained property policy  in this situation.  Whilst I understand that the property in question  
ultimately sold, there was no guarantee this would happen  regardless of whether it was 
under offer or not  so I think it was reasonable for Santander to assess  things as they stood 
at the time of Mr Ws application.  From what Ive seen I dont think that Mr W was vulnerable 
or told Santander that he felt he was. I also think that Santander  gave sufficient 
consideration to Mr Ws future  circumstances.  Overall,  I havent  found any reason that 
Santander ought not to have applied its retained  property  policy  given Mr Ws 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN20146046Following my provisional decision Santander was able to find the call of 2 May 2018 which  
Mr W referred to. Contrary to what Mr W has said, during the call Mr W didnt say that the 
property was under offer,  and Santander  did not say that it had used a 7.5% interest  rate 
when it performed a stress test. Santander  clarified  that its stress test was a system  which  
simply produced a result as to whether the application met its affordability criteria or not. It 
also said it had checked the result with one of its underwriters. 
My provisional decision went into some detail in explaining  why it seemed the figures  
Santanders used  for its stress test was in line with relevant regulation. That was on the 
assumption that Santander  had used the figures that Mr W had asserted. Even now that I 
know the test was automated, and specific figures used for the calculation werent 
discussed, I still have  no reason  to believe that the figures Santander used during its test 
were not in line with regulation. 
Taking all of this into account,  Im therefore  satisfied that Santander applied its policy fairly in 
the circumstances, and that Mr W did not meet  its requirements. Im also satisfied, for 
reasons explained previously, that Santander  didnt mislead Mr W as to the prospect of 
success of his application; all of the evidence  Ive considered suggests that Santander  was 
clear that any indications of affordability  it gave were subject to a full application, which  was 
ultimately declined.
With reference to the points Mr W has made about Santanders approach  to his ex-wifes 
application to move the other mortgage he was party to at the time, this has no relevance to 
whether Santander  has treated Mr Ws application  fairly. As such, I make no findings  on this 
point. If Mr W wishes  to pursue the issue related to the other mortgage he was party to, he 
could raise this with Santander if he wishes. 
Lastly, Mr W said that he had access to a pension policy that couldve acted  as a repayment 
vehicle on the retained property, so Santander  shouldnt have conducted  its stress  test as if 
the mortgage had been converted  to a repayment  basis. My provisional decision concluded 
that it seemed  that there was no valid repayment vehicle in place for the property in question  
and the sale of the property would not have  been a valid repayment strategy. Im still of that 
opinion. From the limited  details that Mr W gave, although I cant say for sure,  I think  it 
unlikely the pension policy wouldve been accepted as a strategy. 
Moreover, Santander could only have assessed Mr Ws application based on the information 
it was given at the time. Throughout  the calls Ive been provided, I didnt hear Mr W mention 
that he had a repayment strategy, or reference to the above policy.  Contrary  to that, Ive 
heard that in the last call with Santander  Mr W told Santander that his ex-wife  couldve had a 
repayment vehicle  on that property, for all he knows. From  this, I think  its fair to conclude 
that Mr W didnt  have  an appropriate repayment  strategy in place, so I remain of the opinion  
that it was fair for Santander to stress  test his outstanding commitment on that particular 
mortgage as if it had been converted  to repayment in place of an acceptable repayment 
strategy.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied  that Santander acted fairly by declining Mr Ws 
application. 
Ref: DRN20146047my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2020.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2014604