K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly gave her loans  which she 
couldnt afford to pay back. 
background 
Miss G took out 4 instalment  loans with Uncle Buck between July 2017 and April 2018.
She says she was borrowing to repay existing loans and her credit file shows  her use of 
short term loans. Miss G says she cant now repay  the loans  and there is a balance  
outstanding on the final loan.
 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and said it wasnt unfair for Uncle Buck  to offer 
loans 1 and 2. But at the point of loan 3 Miss Gs borrowing pattern and the information in 
her credit search  was a cause for concern  and Uncle Buck  shouldve  seen that she was 
struggling to manage  her money and so further borrowing wasnt  sustainable.
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion and in particular said that it wasnt 
able to see the correct number  of outstanding  short term loans from the credit  report  it 
obtained at the point  of loan 3. It offered to write off the outstanding balance  on loan 4. Miss 
G didnt accept that offer and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle 
Buck should  fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN25238742There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Miss G could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint. Uncle  Buck has told us about the 
checks it did before lending to Miss G. It asked Miss G for details  of her income and normal  
expenditure. And Uncle Buck carried  out checks on Miss Gs credit file. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Uncle  Buck to give Miss G loans 1 and 2 
on the basis of the information she gave about her income and outgoings. It was early in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Uncle Buck  to agree to lend. 
As Miss G hasnt  raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to 
loans one and two, I dont think that I need  to say more  about  them.
Miss G asked  to borrow loan 3 on 28 December 2017 within 10 days  of repaying loan 2 and 
asked for a significantly increased  amount.  This should have alerted Uncle Buck  that it was 
possible that Miss G couldnt afford to repay her borrowing without borrowing further. The 
credit check  undertaken  by Uncle Buck  on 29 December 2017 showed  that Miss G had 
opened at least  2 short term accounts. 
In these circumstances I think it was reasonable for Uncle Buck  to have  done  some further 
checking as Miss Gs declared  income  and outgoings was at odds with her borrowing pattern  
and reported credit information. Uncle  Buck should have verified Miss Gs outgoings  as she 
declared they had not changed  despite  her increasing borrowing with Uncle  Buck and 
continued use of short term lending. Uncle Buck should have done more  to check  that Miss 
G wasnt reliant on short term credit.  
Although the loan looked affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  I think it was 
reasonable for Uncle Buck  to have seen that Miss G wasnt responsibly  managing  her 
money and so any further borrowing was unsustainable. And so I think  Uncle  Buck shouldve 
realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more  money to Miss G.
This pattern continued for loan 4 and Miss G fell into difficulty and was unable to repay  what 
she had borrowed.  
So Im upholding  Miss Gs complaint about  loans 3 and 4.
Ref: DRN25238743putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss G towards  interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  it 
has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Miss G which 
were considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss G originally  made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Miss G as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Miss G having made  overpayments  then 
these should be refunded  with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Uncle Buck should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and 
move to step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Miss G. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Uncle Buck should try to agree  an affordable repayment 
plan with Miss G.
E.Remove any adverse  information about loans  3 and 4 from Miss Gs credit file.
*
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint in part and direct  Uncle  Buck Finance 
LLP to put things  right as detailed above. 
Ref: DRN25238744Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2523874