K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr P says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think Santander made it clear Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this.
Given how long ago this PPI was sold, there isnt a lot of information available for me to 
know how the PPI was presented to Mr P, or how he agreed  to buy it. But in sales  that 
took place so long ago, this isnt surprising or unusual. 
Ive seen a copy  of a form that mentions PPI. I can see that Paymentcare had been 
circled on the form, suggesting  the cover had been  taken. Mr P has also signed  this 
form, so I think  it likely he agreed  to buy the policy. 
The policy covered Mr P for unemployment only  there were also other options 
available in relation to the level of cover. So I think it likely  that some  sort of discussion 
took place about PPI in which Mr P was offered a choice in buying PPI, and he then 
chose to take it.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr P so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr P about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think  he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable at the time.  So I dont think better information about  the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said - including what he has said about not needing  
the cover  because his employer  would  have paid. But these points dont change my 
decision.
I say this because  this policy would have covered Mr P if he became unemployed. Mr P 
hasnt mentioned to us that he would have received  any redundancy pay. And even if he did, 
this PPI cover would have  paid out on top of the redundancy pay. So I still think  he could 
have found the policy useful.
Ref: DRN24022582Ive also thought about the commission Mr P paid on his PPI  and whether Santander 
treated him unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr Ps PPI was less than half of what  he paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how Santander  has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ps commission  was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont 
think Santander treated  him unfairly.  This means it doesnt need  to pay Mr P back  any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2402258