K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 
alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account sometime after Mr N took out the 
store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr N says FICL mis-sold  him the PPI. Our adjudicator  didnt uphold  the complaint.  Mr N 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL has provided evidence of its internal  records to show  that the PPI was taken out over 
the phone  in 2001  some years after the store card account had been set up. But 
unfortunately due to the length of time thats  passed there  is no call recording for me to listen  
to  so I cant say what exactly was discussed  at the time. But as Mr N already  had the credit 
in place I think he wouldve known  the PPI was an optional  extra  and not a condition  of 
having the store card.
FICL has also provided call scripts  which it says wouldve been used for these types of sales 
around that time  and Ive seen  no reason to doubt this. These show  that the sales  person  
was instructed to present the PPI as optional to Mr N. And without any evidence to persuade  
me otherwise, I think its unlikely FICL  wouldve added the PPI to his account without his 
permission.
So based  on all the evidence Ive seen and without  any stronger evidence to the contrary,  I
think FICL made it clear  that Mr N didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out 
 although I can understand  why he cant remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr N so it didnt have to check if the policy was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr N got the information  he needed to decide if the PPI 
was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  So I dont think better  information  about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover.
Upon a successful  claim the PPI wouldve  paid 15% of Mr Ns outstanding monthly balance 
until the policy ended, Mr N stopped being unemployed or disabled,  or the outstanding  
balance had been cleared. And even  though  he was entitled to some  sick pay from his 
Ref: DRN20241962employer, this wouldve  only lasted  6 months. The PPI, however, wouldve paid out in 
addition to his sick pay and for longer.  So I still think the policy  wouldve been useful for him 
and I dont think better information wouldve  put him off taking  out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2024196