K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs W says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 1995. It was sold in 
store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs W aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before 
adding it to her agreement. I dont know for certain what was said at the time the policy was 
sold, but FICL has provided a copy of Mrs Ws application form. The form had a separate 
section for PPI and the option  to take the policy has been selected.  The form has also been  
signed by Mrs W in agreement with both the PPI and the card.  So overall  I think  its likely 
FICL made it clear  that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs W got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. Mrs W has told us she could have  relied on her husband to help her make her 
repayments if she wasnt able to. But while Mrs Ws husband would have  wanted  to help his 
ability to would have  been dependent on his circumstances  at the time,  which  could have 
changed. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ws circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said including that the rules say we should 
presume Mrs W wouldnt have taken PPI if she was given more information.  But for the 
reasons outlined above I still think she wouldve bought  the policy if she had been given 
clearer information. So these points dont change my conclusion.  
Ref: DRN28544212my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2854421