K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr H says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Mr Hs complaint is brought on his behalf  by a representative. To keep things simple, in this 
decision Ive referred  to things said by Mr H and by Mr Hs representative on Mr Hs behalf 
as things said by Mr H.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr Hs credit card started over a year before the PPI was added.  Barclays says the PPI was 
sold by phone. But it cant say whether the call was incoming or outgoing. Mr H has pointed  
out that Barclays said more than once  that it couldnt  say how the PPI was sold.  But where 
PPI is sold for an existing account  like this, the sale is usually a phone sale. With all this in 
mind, I think  the sale was a phone  sale.  But I cant say exactly  why or how the call came 
about. And I dont know if it was a pro-active sales call or linked to some other event.
There isnt a call recording.  But what we know of how Barclays  sold PPI at the time in phone 
sales like this makes me think its likely Barclays  gave  Mr H a choice about the PPI and 
wouldve only added it if Mr H agreed to it.
Mr H disagrees  and says he wasnt aware he was paying for PPI. He says his finances were 
a mess and he wouldnt have agreed to more costs.  But Mr Hs recollections  are of an event 
that took place  some  years ago. And buying insurance is often not very memorable. Bearing 
all this in mind, what Mr H has said isnt enough  on its own to make me think Barclays  added  
PPI to his account  without  telling him or without getting his agreement like I think it normally  
would. And I havent  seen  anything else to make me think Barclays added the PPI without 
Mr Hs permission. There isnt a written  agreement for the PPI. But I think  its likely papers 
sent to Mr H after the sale wouldve confirmed the cover  hed agreed  to in the phone  call.
On balance, and taking everything into account,  I think its likely Barclays made  it clear  that 
Mr H didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it during a phone  call. But I can 
understand why he might  not remember this.
Barclays didnt usually  give advice  to customers in calls like the one I think it made to Mr H. 
And Mr H hasnt any recollection of receiving  advice from Barclays about the suitability  of the 
PPI for his particular circumstances.  So I dont think Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr H 
as something that was right for his circumstances. This means  Barclays  didnt have to check 
the PPI was right for Mr H. But it did have to give Mr H enough information for him to decide 
if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it - so it looks to me like he wanted this type of cover. And 
Ref: DRN29368332based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  Mr H wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for him if something  
went wrong. For a successful claim the PPI benefit would pay out for up to twelve months for 
sickness or unemployment. And from what Mr H has told us, he wouldve received no more 
than statutory benefits from his employer if he lost his job or was too sick to work. 
Mr H has told us his family couldve helped pay his credit card  and I understand he did in 
fact receive family help.  But other  peoples circumstances and ability  to help can change. 
Taking the policy meant Mr H would  be less reliant on family  help if he suffered disability or 
redundancy.
So, taking everything  into account, on balance I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mr H off taking out the cover.
What Ive said above means Barclays doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr H. But Barclays  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
When the cover was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr H about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about all Mr Hs points - including what hes said about there not being  evidence 
that Barclays sales policies were met in this particular case. But there isnt much  in the way 
of specific evidence from the time of the sale available. And, for the reasons Ive given, what  
Ive seen isnt enough to make me think Barclays did mis-sell the PPI in this particular case. 
So for these reasons these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should  also pay back to Mr H any extra interest Mr H paid 
because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr H the difference 
between what Mr H owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays  should also pay Mr H 8%* simple  
interest if Mr H paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN29368333Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2936833