K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains  through her partner  Mr E - that British Gas Insurance  Limited is 
responsible for poor service in connection with her home emergency  insurance policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
other companies and individuals  insofar as I hold the insurance company responsible for 
their actions.
Ms D and Mr E share a home.  She had a British Gas policy  that included  cover for the 
central heating boiler. Mr E is a vulnerable pensioner with ongoing  heath  issues  including a 
visual impairment. Their home  has a water meter as well as an electricity  meter.
They called British  Gas for help with the central heating boiler. British  Gas visited a few 
times and did some  work  in the loft. Ms D complained that British Gas left a pump leaking 
and it damaged her ceiling.
British Gas arranged  repairs.  And in its final response  letter it said it was sending £200.00. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that the 
£200.00 was a fair amount to recognise  the financial impact of the damage to Ms Ds ceiling, 
and the distress and inconvenience she experienced.
Ms D disagreed with the investigators opinion.  She asked for an ombudsman  to review  the 
complaint. Mr E says,  in summary, that:
If he were  in employment, he would have had to take leave for the British Gas visits. 
In that case there has to be a monetary value and compensation.
British Gas caused stress, distress, upset and inconvenience.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas visited on 28 December 2018,  30 December 2018, 31 December 2018 and 1 
January 2019.  It did some  work  in the loft.  Unknown to Ms D, British Gas left a water  pump 
with an untightened nut which  started  to leak. 
I accept that he water  soaked  into some loft insulation so Ms D and Mr E didnt notice any 
leak before  they went on holiday  from 5 January 2019 until 18 January 2019. So the pump  
leaked for over two weeks.
On their return, Ms D and Mrs E found damage  to the bathroom  ceiling around the light 
fitting. From the photographs, I dont doubt  that they were  distressed by what they saw.
I accept Mr Es statement  that he had to go into the loft and indeed  onto the roof to check  
where the leak was coming from. He or Ms D contacted the home  insurer   which found the 
pump and stopped the leak.
Ref: DRN23475472British Gas accepted responsibility for leaving the pump leaking.  British Gas arranged  repair  
of the damage. 
That involved Mr E having to be at home for further  visits including for the plasterer, 
electrician and decorator. The effect  of this was to interfere  with a doctors appointment and 
with going out to the shops. The repairs were completed by the end of February 2019. 
I accept that Ms D had lost some metered water. I accept that Mr E needed to use a 
temporary electric light at night until the bathroom  ceiling light was safe to use. I also accept 
that Ms D and Mr E had to make extra telephone calls.
But she hasnt provided any meter readings  or bills for water,  electricity  or telephone. So 
theres no identifiable financial loss and I dont  find it fair and reasonable to direct British  Gas 
to pay compensation  for such loss.
I accept that British Gas caused Ms D and Mr E distress and inconvenience  for about six 
weeks. Strictly speaking I can only consider the distress and inconvenience suffered 
personally by the policyholder Ms D. But I dont  doubt that her distress  and inconvenience 
was increased by witnessing Mr Es.
In any event  even if they had been joint policyholders  I wouldve found  £200.00  fair and 
reasonable compensation. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct  British Gas to make 
any further payment  or to do any more in response to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response  to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2347547