K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited wont  refund to her the money  
that shes paid it for a make-up course  with a company thats gone into liquidation  and that it 
wont cancel her loan agreement.
background
Miss M signed a fixed sum loan agreement with Omni Finance in August 2018  to pay for a 
four week  theatre make-up course  that was to take place in March  2019. The course 
provider went into liquidation  in November 2018  and Miss M was told that a new company 
had been set-up and that it would provide the course. Miss M didnt  want to take the 
replacement course  so asked Omni Finance to refund to her the money that shed paid to it 
and to cancel  her loan agreement. She wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to 
this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that there 
had been a breach of contract  as Miss M didnt get the course from the provider she signed 
up with but that Omni Finance had remedied that as it had provided a suitable alternative  
from a course provider of a similar standing. So she didnt think that there were grounds for 
the agreement  to be cancelled. 
Miss M has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She has 
responded to the investigators  recommendation in detail  and has provided additional 
evidence to explain why she doesnt consider the replacement course to be a suitable 
alternative course with a provider of a similar  standing. She has provided corporate 
information about the original course provider and the replacement  course  provider and 
about the background to the original course  providers  liquidation.  She says that its likely 
that the original  course provider was involved in fraudulent or wrongful trading, that theres 
been a deception and she refers  to the involvement  of a whistle-blower. And she says:
I have purchased  the course  not just because  of industry knowledge and makeup 
knowledge, I have  also selected this provider  for all other aftercare support in how to 
set up the business, direction of the business,  marketing and other points that 
unlimited aftercare promised as part of the course  purchased.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Miss Ms complaint about  Omni 
Finance, I must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
the original course  provider and that Omni Finances response to her claim under section 75 
wasnt fair or reasonable.  Im not determining the outcome of Miss Ms claim under section 
75 as only a court would be able to do that.
The original  course  provider stopped trading  before  Miss M took the course that she was 
paying for using  the loan agreement with Omni Finance. I consider that to be a clear breach 
of contract  by the original course  provider for which Omni Finance is jointly  liable under 
Ref: DRN20081422section 75. So I must  consider whether its response  to her complaint  has been fair and 
reasonable.
Omni Finance says that it contacted the original course provider which said that although the 
company that was to provide the course had gone into liquidation, another  company had 
taken over the business and was honouring the original course providers previous book of 
business and the course  that Miss M was booked  on would go ahead.
I have considered in detail  what Miss M has said about the replacement course not being a 
suitable alternative course with a provider of a similar standing. But the replacement  course  
providers website shows that the course  content and tutors  are the same  as for the original 
course, the director is the same for both companies  and the celebrity make-up artist with 
whom the course  is associated seems to be as involved with the replacement course as she 
was with the original  course. 
So Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence  to show  that the replacement course 
isnt a suitable replacement for the original  course. The replacement  course provider  has 
taken over the original  course providers business  and is honouring the original course 
providers book of business. And Im not persuaded that Miss Ms concerns about potentially  
fraudulent and wrongful trading and deception  by the original course provider are enough to 
show that the replacement course isnt a suitable replacement.
I sympathise with Miss M that shes been  caused these difficulties and I can understand her 
frustration about  the change  in the course provider. But I consider that Omni  Finances 
response to her claim has been  fair and reasonable. So I find that it wouldnt  be fair or 
reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require it to refund to her any of the money that 
shes paid to it, to cancel the loan agreement or to take any other action  in response to her 
complaint.
Ive seen no evidence  to show that Miss M attended the replacement course even though it 
was available  to her. So I suggest I that she contacts  the replacement  course  provider to see 
if she can take the course at another time.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2008142