K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt  consider  an 
extended warranty claim because the benefit  had been removed from Mr and Mrs As 
account. 
Background
Mr and Mrs A have  a packaged  bank  account  with Nationwide. In February  2017  they 
bought a new fridge freezer  using their Nationwide account. Mr and Mrs A say they did so as 
Nationwide provided  extended warranty protection after the manufacturers two year 
warranty period ended.  In April 2019 Mr and Mrs As fridge freezer  developed faults  so they 
contacted Nationwide to make a claim.  Nationwide  said extended warranty  insurance was 
removed as a benefit of the account in September 2017, so they were  no longer accepting  
claims. 
Mr and Mrs A were  unhappy with Nationwides response and brought  a complaint to this 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the terms and conditions  of Mr 
and Mrs As account allowed Nationwide to remove benefits at any stage provided  they gave 
at least two months notice. The investigator  noted Mr and Mrs A were  sent a letter  setting 
out the changes that were being made  and a leaflet with a summary of changes  in July 
2017. Extended  warranty benefit was then removed from 21 September 2017. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt  accept the investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision, so their complaint has been passed to me. They  say they didnt receive notification 
of the change, but in any event extended warranty protection was available when they 
bought their fridge freezer so their claim should be met.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs As account say, 
i)We may withdraw benefits or services,  or features forming  part of these, by giving  
you not less than two months  written notice.
Although Ive not seen a letter addressed to Mr and Mrs A, Ive seen a sample letter sent in 
July 2017. The letter notified Mr and Mrs A of a change to the monthly  charge for the 
account and of the addition and removal of benefits  provided. The front page of the letter 
included a summary of the changes in a box, which said,
Well be removing these  lesser-used features:
Extended Warranty Protection
Mr and Mrs A were  given the choice  to continue with the account and accept the changes (in 
which case they didnt  need to do anything), move  to a different account  or close  the 
account. Mr and Mrs A kept the account  and so accepted the changes to it in terms of cost 
and benefits. 
Ref: DRN20933582The letter went on to say,
A few things  to bear in mind about the features that will be going
If you need to make  a claim under your Extended  Warranty Protection, you have up until 
5pm on 20 September   but just remember to do this in time,  as cover wont  be in place after 
that dateAnd  if you need cover after the 20th, then dont forget to arrange  this through 
another provider.
The summary of changes leaflet sent with the letter  set everything out again. I consider 
Nationwide gave sufficient  notice of the changes to comply with the terms and conditions  of 
Mr and Mrs As account and to allow them time to organise alternative cover.  I appreciate Mr 
and Mrs A say they didnt  receive the letter. I believe its more likely than not the letter  was 
sent. Nationwide also say Mr and Mrs A were  sent an annual mailing setting out the 
insurances associated  with the account. In any event Nationwide are entitled to change  the 
benefits they provide.
I dont agree with Mr and Mrs A that because extended warranty protection  was in place 
when they bought the fridge freezer,  they should  be able to benefit from it after its removal. 
Insurers only provide  cover if insurance  is in place at the time of the loss. Mr and Mrs As 
fridge freezer developed faults years after the insurance was removed.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs A would have  liked extended warranty protection to have continued, 
but cant say Nationwide have done anything wrong  in removing the cover. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2020.
c
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2093358