K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with the amount of compensation being awarded by 
TSB Bank Plc (TSB).  
background 
Mr and Mrs H were the unfortunate victims of a fraud. Their  mobile  phone  account was 
hacked which enabled the fraudster  to obtain their personal details and withdraw money 
from their bank account. Mr and Mrs H have told us that TSB has returned their money and 
refunded any related  charges which caused Mr and Mrs H to go into their overdraft.
Mr and Mrs H are seeking compensation from TSB because they say it didnt act fast 
enough to prevent the fraud. 
On 14 May 2018, Mr and Mrs H received three text messages from their mobile phone 
network provider, the last text saying it was sorry they were leaving their service. This 
prompted Mr H to ring them. The network  provider confirmed that Mr and Mrs Hs account 
had been hacked. Mr H was advised  by the network  provider to let TSB know  - which  he did 
on the same  day. He says that TSB told him to change his online banking log in details, 
which he also did. 
Mr and Mrs H say that on 15 May, the fraudster was able to withdraw  around  £900 across a 
number of their TSB accounts through transfers between  accounts and a faster payment. 
Mr H says that on this day, he couldnt use his mobile phone for calls or texts because his 
telephone number had been transferred  to another phone. Neither  could he access  his TSB 
account through the banking app or via online banking because his updated  password 
wasnt recognised.  Mr H says that he telephoned  TSB and that was how he found out that 
the money had been stolen.   
Mr and Mrs H say that they were without  their money for around  10 days  and didnt  have 
access to their TSB accounts for around 4 weeks. 
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  because they say they put TSB on notice that their account had 
been hacked and so it should have prevented the fraud by putting  extra  security measures in 
place. They also say that usually when a new payee is set up on their TSB account, it sends 
a text to confirm this but on this occasion  no text was received.
Mr and Mrs H say that because TSB didnt  prevent  the fraud,  theyve spent several hours  on 
the telephone to the bank, service  providers and credit reference  agencies; spent time 
setting up a new bank  account elsewhere  and rearranging their direct  debits as well as 
dealing with missed  payments.  They  said they had to borrow money  from family  to get by 
and work  extra hours  to make up for the time lost trying to resolve  matters.  Mr and Mrs H 
say all of this has caused them significant stress and anxiety and they are seeking 
compensation from TSB. 
An investigator here upheld the complaint and recommended that TSB pay Mr and Mrs H 
£500 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused by not preventing  the fraud. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with this and say they should be awarded  significantly  more. 
Because of this, the case has come to me to decide.   
Ref: DRN22770762my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the opinion 
reached by the investigator and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H have told us that TSB has returned  their money and waived related charges  
on their overdraft. And so the only matter for me to consider is whether TSB could have 
acted sooner to prevent the fraud  and if so, what compensation  would  be appropriate for the 
resulting trouble and upset. 
Mr H notified TSB that his mobile phone account  had been  hacked and he changed his 
security details as advised by TSB.  The next day the fraudster was able to withdraw nearly 
£900 across his and Mrs Hs accounts.  Mr H says that hed usually get a text if a new payee 
is added  to his account but didnt on this occasion. 
Im aware that TSB experienced some  IT problems around this time and this probably  
contributed to the difficulty Mr and Mrs H encountered in getting through  to TSB over the 
telephone, online and in branch. 
Mr H says that hes spent  around  26 hours on the telephone (or trying to get through  to TSB) 
between 14 and 18 May.  He says he rang TSB daily until he and Mrs H were granted an 
emergency loan for the amount that was stolen.  Hes also said that he spent  several hours 
since then telephoning TSB with regards  to settling the account. Mr H said that he used his 
mobile phone for the majority of the calls.  He told us that he had unlimited minutes as part of 
his contract so its unlikely  that he was charged for the calls to TSB. 
Mr and Mrs H said that they both had to work  extra hours to make up for the time they lost 
whilst dealing with the impact of the fraud  on their accounts. Mr and Mrs H say that they 
should be compensated for the additional  hours they worked at their respective rates of pay. 
Ive looked at everything thats happened  and I agree that its possible that the service  
problems it was experiencing  didnt  help here.  I also appreciate that rearranging  work hours 
and spending  several hours trying to contact  TSB would have been an added  source of 
anxiety at an already  stressful  time. So Im satisfied that there  has been material  distress 
and inconvenience  caused to Mr and Mrs H and a compensation award is warranted. But I 
do think that £500 to reflect the non-financial loss is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.  
I wont be making a separate award  for financial loss in respect of mobile call costs  because 
these probably wouldnt  have been  charged  under Mr Hs inclusive minutes package. Nor 
am I making  an award  to compensate Mr and Mrs H for the extra hours  that they worked 
because ultimately, they would  have  been paid by their employers so wouldnt have been 
out of pocket. But Ive taken the impact of this into account when making my award.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To settle this matter,  if it hasnt  already  
TSB Bank Plc should pay Mr and Mrs H £500 as compensation for the trouble  and upset 
caused to them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Ref: DRN22770763Reena Anand
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2277076