K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland  plc trading at the time as Halifax  mis-sold  him a 
payment protection insurance policy in 1998.
He has told us he was self-employed - so the policy was unsuitable for him. Mr R has also 
said he was sold a policy he did not need.
background
Mr R applied for his credit  card and the PPI in 1998. This policy covered Mr R if he was off 
work through  an accident, sickness or if he lost his job.
It would have cost £0.78 per £100 of Mr Rs outstanding monthly balance on his credit card 
and would have  paid 10% of that balance on a successful  claim until he returned to work or 
the balance was repaid whichever happened first.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr R disagreed with this view 
and asked that his matter  be referred  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mr Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Halifax needed to give Mr R an option  about buying the policy. So Ive thought about 
whether Mr R was given a choice.  I have been  provided with the completed credit agreement  
Mr R signed and dated. At section five of the form theres a cross in the box to show  Mr R 
wanted to take advantage of the PPI. There is also a box for Halifax  card protection which 
has been left blank. So I think Mr R would likely  have known that he could refuse  the PPI if 
he didnt want it. Overall,  I think Mr R chose  to buy the policy  knowing he could refuse it if he 
didnt want it. 
I think the policy was sold in a branch and Halifax recommended  it. That put more 
responsibility on Halifax for how it sold the policy  and it meant  it had to make sure it was 
suitable. It also had to give Mr R enough clear information so he could make  an informed 
choice about whether  or not he wanted to buy it.
Looking at Mr Rs circumstances and the policy terms  and conditions  I think the policy was 
suitable.
I say this as Mr R was eligible for the PPI. And it doesnt look like he was affected by any of 
the main exclusions  and limitations  we see in this type of policy. I have taken into account  
that Mr R has told us he was self-employed. Sometimes the terms and conditions  of a policy  
would have made it more  difficult  for someone in that position to make a claim. But looking at 
this policy, the terms would not have  made  any difference to him as a self-employed  person 
compared with someone who was employed. And Mr R has told us he was in good health  at 
Ref: DRN22911002the time of the sale. So I think its more likely he could  have  made a successful he needed 
to.
Mr R told us initially that he had no sick pay or other means on which he could rely if he had 
to take time off work  or lost his job. Later his representatives told us he had significant  sick 
pay entitlements and if hed been off sick for a prolonged period he would have had no 
difficulty in maintaining his repayments. But if he was self-employed  I dont think  he would 
have had sick pay. So I think the policy was suitable  for him and could have been useful if 
hed needed  to make  a claim. 
Halifax also had to give enough clear information so that Mr R could make a decision for 
himself about whether  or not to buy the policy. I cant say that Halifax  gave Mr R all the 
information it should have done.  But thats not enough for me to uphold  this complaint. I next 
need to think about whether or not Mr R would have changed his mind about  buying the PPI 
if hed had more  or better information.  But as explained I think Mr R chose the PPI and for 
much the same reasons Ive given  about why I think the policy  was suitable, I dont think 
better or clearer information  would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  Halifax didnt  tell Mr R, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr R any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2291100