K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2002. Mrs H says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, Im not upholding this complaint 
because:
Lloyds has provided a copy of Mrs Hs signed  loan application form which has a printed  
cross in the Yes  box to request optional loan protection.  From what I know  of how 
Lloyds sold policies around this time, I think its likely  the printed  cross wouldve only 
been added in this box, rather  than the No one, after Mrs H confirmed she wanted PPI. 
So overall I think its most likely that Lloyds  made it clear  that Mrs H didnt have to take 
out the PPI and she chose  to take it out  although as Im looking at events from more 
than fifteen years  ago I can understand why she cant remember this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs H so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And 
from what Ive seen of her circumstances, Mrs H appears to have  had a need for the 
cover.
The information Lloyds gave  Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. 
But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  For example, 
the total cost of the policy couldve been  set out clearer. But it seems like it would have 
been useful for her if something  went wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable.  And 
while Mrs H might have been entitled  to some  sick pay, the policy wouldve paid out in 
addition to this and potentially for longer. So I dont  think better  information  about the 
PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said. But Im afraid that these points dont change 
my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2062319