K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mrs and Mr H payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about  19 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mrs and Mr H have said the PPI was added without their knowledge.  However it wouldnt be 
fair for me to conclude  this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of 
this. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something  wrong,  
fairness requires that the person making the allegation should  present evidence that this 
probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt  do 
something, especially when it was such a long time ago. It would  be usual for the PPI to 
have been mentioned in the documents at the time, and I think  its more likely  this is what  
happened, and that the PPI was offered as a choice, even if Mrs and Mr H dont now 
remember it. Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without 
Mrs and Mr Hs consent. 
I think Lloyds Bank  recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr H, and this means  it had a higher  
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Mrs and Mr Hs particular circumstances. But it looks to me as though any recommendation 
would have been a suitable  one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs and Mr Hs situation at the 
time:
Ref: DRN20723392 Finding yourself  unable to pay a mortgage  can lead to significant  difficulties. The PPI 
would have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs H received  any employer sick pay, 
and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay. 
Mr H, who was self-employed, wouldnt have benefited from employee sick pay or 
redundancy pay, so the PPI would have been of even more  potential use to him. Unlike 
some PPI policies, this particular policy didnt make it harder for a self-employed  person  
to make a claim. 
Its likely  Mrs and Mr H were  eligible for the policy.
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out.
Overall the PPI could  have put Mrs and Mr H in a more secure position, if theyd 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds Bank  explained  the costs  and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about the costs would have 
affected whether  Mrs and Mr H took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds Bank didnt clearly point out the main  things  the policy didnt cover.  But 
its unlikely Mrs and Mr H would have been affected  by any of these.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 September 2019. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2072339