K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that CIS General Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled his motor policy  
from the beginning after he made  a claim.
background
Mr A applied for his policy on line through an aggregator website. He obtained an initial  
quote on 14 October 2018 and bought  his policy on 2 November  2018  to start from that date.
On 21 November 2018, Mr A was involved  in an accident and made a claim.  When CIS 
began to investigate  it, it discovered Mr A hadnt  disclosed on his application that he had 
three previous accidents. CIS said if it had known this, it wouldnt have been able to offer 
him any policy. So it cancelled his policy, as if it never existed and refused to deal with his 
claim.
Mr A complained, but CIS wouldnt change its stance, so Mr A brought  his complaint to us. 
The investigator didnt  think his complaint should be upheld. Mr A disagreed  so his complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Theres clear evidence  from both CIS and the aggregator site Mr A used to find his 
insurance, that Mr A didnt  disclose he had had three accidents in the previous five years  
before this policy was due to start,  These were on 27 November 2014, 15 June 2017  and 26 
June 2017. This is also confirmed  by the Claims and Underwriting Exchange.  The question 
Mr A was asked on the aggregator site was also clear as detailed by the investigator so I 
wont repeat  that here. Ive also seen that CIS simply  dont offer a motor  policy  to anyone 
who has had this number  of accidents in the previous five years. 
So although  Mr A said he did disclose these accidents on the aggregator website, there  is 
simply no such evidence showing he did. Therefore, I dont  consider  CIS did anything  wrong  
in cancelling his policy as if it never  existed.  
Mr A believes CIS should have checked  his record before  it offered him a policy.  But thats 
not the way the law requires CIS to operate. The law  namely  the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 says that a consumer must  answer  all the 
questions asked on applications honestly. Those questions must be clear, which here they 
are. Then if the insurer subsequently  finds out anything, which  would have ensured it 
wouldnt have offered any policy, its then entitled to cancel the policy as if it never existed. 
The law permits CIS to rely on what its applicants,  (Mr A here),  tells it when they completes 
the application form. So theres no duty on CIS to have done anything  differently for Mr A, 
and certainly, not to double check his answers  to all the questions were  true before offering 
him a policy.  The law says that that is Mr As responsibility, not the insurers  and therefore 
not the responsibility of CIS.
Ref: DRN23031742Mr A also raised the fact that he never received his welcome pack  and that the link CIS said 
he could use to view the documents  online didnt work. But he didnt raise this at the time 
with CIS, so CIS wasnt then in a position  to rectify it for him. 
I agree  it was unfortunate that there  was a delay of 4 days before Mr A found out properly  
that CIS had cancelled  his policy. But as nothing happened in those four days to prejudice  
Mr A, I dont consider CIS has to do anything  about that. It did follow its own terms and 
conditions but a telephone call to Mr A would have been better service.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2303174