K822xcomplaint
Mr I has complained Barclays  Bank UK PLC closed his bank accounts after a fraudulent  
payment was made into one of his accounts.  He wants the bank to re-open  his accounts.
background 
Mr I held five accounts  with substantial funds with Barclays Bank.  In September 2017 they 
were notified  by police of a fraudulent payment  being made  into Mr Is account.   
As part of their process when notified  of fraudulent credits, Barclays  carried out a review of 
Mr Is accounts and froze them. Mr I was overseas at the time and found his access to his 
accounts immediately  blocked. He was told this review would take 10 days.  In early October 
Mr I went back  to Barclays for further  information  but received  no update.
On 4 December  Barclays gave Mr I notice of their intention  to close his accounts 
immediately without any further notice. By this time theyd  also repaid the fraudulent  funds 
back to the genuine customer. Mr I brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.  
He was distraught at finding his accounts  closed after a long and unblemished banking 
relationship with Barclays. Hed also not been  able to access  his substantial funds.
During the time this complaint has been with our service, Barclays has confirmed Mr I can 
have access to his money  along with £200 for the delays  in dealing with the review  of his 
accounts. They werent prepared to have  Mr I back as a customer, although they confirmed 
there was nothing on his record which would stop other banks offering him banking services.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the evidence, including  what Barclays  had to consider when  first 
considering the fraudulent payment into Mr Is account. She felt it was clear  and Barclays 
now accepted   Mr I had nothing to do with the receipt of fraudulent funds. Certainly the 
money had been  paid into his account but hed consistently said he didnt know  what this 
was. Hed transferred £15,000 of the amount to another of his accounts  but as hed said to 
us, just to safeguard the amount and not confuse  it with his other funds. He hadnt known 
what this credit was or who authorised it.
However overall our adjudicator didnt think she could ask Barclays  to re-open  Mr Is 
accounts. They had a genuine reason to apply  a block to his accounts and carry out their 
review. They  were  then able to decide  they no longer wished to have Mr I as a customer. 
However this had taken  considerably longer than the 10 days theyd told Mr I it would take. 
She asked  them to pay Mr I an additional £500 and add 8% simple  interest  a year to the 
funds they were holding for him from 12 September 2017 to 15 March 2018, when they told 
Mr I he could access his funds.
Barclays accepted  this outcome. Mr I remained adamant that all he wanted was for his 
account relationship with Barclays to be restored. His complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same conclusion as our adjudicator. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN27886002I think its important to tackle  the issue of the fraudulent credit  first. £16,685.30  was paid into 
Mr Is account on 5 September 2017.  Hed never heard of the company attached to the 
credit nor was he expecting this money. But to separate  it from the rest of the money in his 
current account, he did transfer £15,000  to his everyday savings account on 7 September. I 
see no reason to doubt what Mr I has said about this. Barclays has not presented us with 
any evidence Mr I was involved in any fraud nor has there been any other claim on any of 
his funds.
Unfortunately it seems Mr I was just a very unlucky  party to a scam. Hes always questioned 
how he could end up receiving this money  without  ever having  given his authorisation. But 
as long as someone  knows  a sort code and account number, then payments can be made 
into an account without  that account-holder giving any specific  authority. 
Fraudulent payments were made and one of those hit Mr Is account. Most likely the genuine 
sender was tricked  into making these payments. Its seems unlikely to me that the funds 
were supposed  to end up with Mr I. There didnt seem to be any obvious way for a fraudster 
to then get funds  from Mr I which is what you generally expect to see.  
Like our adjudicator, I dont think Mr I had anything  to do with the fraud.  Barclays accepted 
this and removed  the marker that may inhibit Mr I getting an account  from another  bank. 
However they reiterated their policy would be not to offer Mr I further banking services.
I can certainly see why at the outset Barclays had their doubts. Theyd been informed by the 
police that Mr I had received  fraudulent  funds  so they really had little choice but to review  
Mr Is accounts.  The evidence is clear  that Barclays told Mr I itd take them  10 days  to review 
his accounts.  They  admit they didnt confirm back to him in the timescale  theyd normally  
adhere to. Barclays firstly  offered Mr I £200 for the delay but agreed  to increase this to £700.
Ive also looked  at whether this is sufficient and overall I think  it is. Mr I had a significant 
amount of money  with Barclays. Theyve  also agreed to pay 8% simple interest a year for 
the period they didnt allow Mr I access to his funds.  In fact more  than a year a half on 
Barclays still holds £155,068.03 of Mr Is money.
Mr I has been in no hurry  to collect his money  as his aim was always  to get his accounts 
back. Ive already confirmed to Mr I that I wont be asking Barclays to re-open his accounts. 
Although I do have the power to do that, it would be an unusual step to take. Its clear  
Barclays policy is not to re-open a customers accounts after incidences  like this. If I was to 
insist they re-open his accounts, they could just as easily give him two months notice of their 
intention to close his accounts and things  would be no further  forward.  Although  Mr I may not 
like it banks can chose who they wish to offer banking services  to.
I appreciate nothing that happened was down to Mr I. And I can see how deeply  unfair  this 
must seem to him. But having thought about this carefully I see no reason why I would ask 
Barclays to do this.
Mr Is complaint has been with this service for a long time and I apologise for the delays in 
being able to deal with his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to:
Ref: DRN27886003Add 8% simple interest a year to Mr Is funds for the period they werent available to 
him being 12 September 2017  to 15 March 2018; and
Pay Mr I £700 compensation in total for the delays caused  to making his funds 
available to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2788600