K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1993 
alongside a mortgage. Ms T says Santander UK plc, National and Provincial at the time, mis-
sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ts case.
Ms T has provided  a lot of detail in support  of this complaint so I dont doubt the strength of 
feeling. I am aware  Ms T feels  we havent considered all her evidence thus far so I wanted to 
reassure her that Ive read and considered everything she has said. However, it may be 
helpful to explain  that the purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point thats  been  
made  its only to provide my conclusions and reasons for them. So while  I have thought 
carefully about everything shes said throughout this complaint, my final findings will be 
expressed in considerably  less detail.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Ms T has raised  a number of complaints about the optionality of the policy  for example she 
says she was not told it was optional, nor was she told that she could cancel the policy  
independently of the mortgage. Ms T also gave evidence about  consent - saying that the PPI 
was added without  her knowledge or agreement. Ive thought about what Ms T has said and 
Ive also looked  at the other evidence available. Due to the passage  of time, not all the 
documents from the sale are now available for me to consider. And I wasnt present in the 
meeting when the PPI was sold  so I cant say exactly what  happened at the time. But my 
role is to consider  all the information I have in order to make a decision on what  I think  is 
more likely to have  happened.  
Santander says PPI has never been compulsory to taking out a National and Provincial 
mortgage and that it wouldve had Ms Ts explicit consent to add the policy to her account.  It 
has also provided a copy of Ms Ts mortgage  application form which was completed and 
signed at the time. The application includes a section for PPI and reads:  
We recommend that your monthly  mortgage payments are protected  against the event of 
Redundancy, Accident  and Sickness.
The form then goes  on to offer accident and sickness  cover, or; accident, sickness  and 
redundancy cover. And there appears to be a tick in the box to agree to accident, sickness 
and redundancy  cover  for the first applicant  Ms T. I appreciate that Ms T says that the 
meeting was conducted in a rushed manor and not in private.  But I think the section for PPI 
is clear on the form and Ive not seen anything here that suggests  she wouldnt have been 
approved for the mortgage had she decided not to take it. And as Ive outlined below, I think  
this was an advised sale, so its likely Ms T was told she should take out PPI and not that 
she had to take out the cover.  Ive also seen a copy of a completion notice which followed 
Ms Ts application process  this shows PPI was listed as a separate  entry  in her monthly 
Ref: DRN25973412payment amounts called  Monthly personal accident and sickness premium . So I think she 
wouldve been aware that this had been  added  to her mortgage  account. 
I dont dispute  what Ms T has said are her honest recollections of the sale but from the 
evidence Ive seen  from the time I think its more likely Santander  made it clear that Ms T 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose  to take it out  although I can understand 
why she cant remember this.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Ms T so it had to check that the PPI was right for her at 
the time they were providing that advice  and based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time, I think that it was. For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. Ive also thought about Ms Ts sick pay and savings at the time, and 
the fact that she says she couldve  relied on her parents to support her. But the mortgage is 
likely to have been her biggest  financial commitment  and she was solely responsible for her 
repayments. Upon  a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 24 months  in 
addition to her sick pay and wouldve lasted longer than her existing employee benefits. And 
I have no doubt  Ms Ts parents wouldve wanted  to support her, but help from others cant  
always be relied upon as their circumstances can also change.  So overall, I still think  she 
had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information Santander gave  Ms T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive seen that Ms T doesnt agree that the policy was of any use to her as she didnt claim on 
it when she was too sick to work. She also says this is further evidence that she didnt know 
about the PPI. But as Ive outlined above,  I think Ms T did know  about  the PPI at the time of 
sale and I think she agreed  to take it out. Ive also seen evidence  that a claim was attempted  
in 1997  but there is no longer any evidence of what happened after the insurer  received 
Ms Ts claim form. In any event, I dont  know why a successful claim wasnt  made at the time 
 but whatever the reason may be, this doesnt  affect my decision on whether the policy was 
mis-sold in 1993. If Ms T would now like to make  a backdated claim she should  contact  the 
insurers of the policy  in the first instance.  
my final decision
For all the reasons outlined above,  I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019. 
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2597341