K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs C bought the policy in 2001, at the same time as taking out a credit card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive looked carefully  at screenshots of the online sales process Mrs C wouldve used at the 
time of her sale. From those, it looks like there  wouldve  been  a section for PPI, which  gave 
an overview of what the policy was for and what it cost. Then  there wouldve been two 
options to choose from: one to take PPI and one to turn it down. Both options  look equally 
prominent. According to the electronic record of Mrs Cs application, she chose  the option to 
buy PPI. So I think that Canada Square  made Mrs C aware  she had a choice about buying  
the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C, so they didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. They did have to give Mrs C enough  information to decide if the PPI was right 
for her.
Its possible that the information Canada  Square  gave Mrs C about PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  Here, Mrs C chose to take out the policy  - so it looks  like she wanted this 
type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations.
While Mrs C had some benefits  through work,  the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those, and 
it offered her more  comprehensive cover, especially when her work  benefits reduced to just 
half pay. So the policy would have been useful for Mrs C if something went  wrong.  And the 
PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs C could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont think that better  information  about the PPI was likely  to have put her 
off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN20228362my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2022836