K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about his account with Trading Point of Financial Instruments UK 
Limited (Trading Point).  He says that it didnt notify him about margin  levels  and he never  
received a margin call before  he positions were closed out.
background
Mr A uses  Trading  Points online platform to trade contracts for difference.  In April 2018  it 
closed his open positions because the account equity had fallen below the margin  required 
to maintain those  positions.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and recommended that it should not be 
upheld.  In summary, he said that whilst  he could understand why Mr A was confused  by the 
account terms and conditions, Trading Point was under no obligation to make  a margin call.  
He also reviewed the trading logs and noted Mr A had been logged  on around the time the 
positions were stopped  out.  So he was satisfied that Mr A was likely to have been aware 
there was insufficient  margin on the account  and it was his responsibility to ensure there  
were sufficient funds.
Mr A disagreed.  He  highlighted  the fact that Trading Point had reduced the leverage on his 
account and that had impacted his existing open  positions.  Whilst he accepted that it was 
entitled to do that, he questioned why it hadnt applied  the change  when his account the 
relevant limits several  weeks earlier.  Mr  A also reiterated that hed not received any 
notification from Trading  Point when his margin limits were reached.
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his mind.  He  explained that the process  to 
change the leverage is not instant and said that when his positions  were closed, the 
leverage had been  set correctly.
As no agreement could be reached, Ive now been asked to review  everything afresh and 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the adjudicator, and for broadly the same  reasons.
I entirely understand Mr As frustration, and am aware of the financial impact  as a result  of 
the positions being closed  and realising his losses. Thats  not what Im considering here, but 
instead whether  Trading  Point acted in a fair and reasonable  way when it managed  his 
account.
Mr A has provided a range of information  and Ive taken it all into account,  but Ive only 
referred to those issues which I consider central to reaching my decision.
Ultimately it is Mr As responsibility to manage his account and ensure  there  are sufficient  
funds available  maintain the margin on any open positions.  But Trading Point  does have a 
responsibility to Mr A, and in considering  that Ive reviewed the account terms and 
conditions.
Ref: DRN22424842The terms and conditions  do set out in what circumstances  a margin call is triggered  and the 
appropriate stop out level.  However,  at clause 12.9 it does clearly state:
We are under no obligation to make  a Margin Call or close out any Transactions or take any 
other action  in respect of positions  opened or acquired  on your instructions.
Its also clear  from the trading logs that Mr A was using the platform to access and manage 
his account, at around the time when it fell below the margin required to maintain the open 
positions.  Trading  Point  has confirmed this would have resulted  in Mr A receiving 
notifications.  But  Mr A has explained  that he was accessing the account through his phone 
app and not online  so he wouldnt have had full information about  the change  to the 
leverage and insufficient  margin.
Whilst I note Mr As comments, for me to uphold the complaint  I have to be persuaded 
Trading Point has done  something wrong.   Given the above, Im satisfied  it acted reasonably 
and did what it was required  to under  the account terms.
Ive also considered the points Mr A has made about the change  of leverage on his account.  
He is aware that Trading  Point reduced  the leverage  available  on the account  in accordance 
with its terms.   Whilst it wasnt done immediately Im satisfied that it was actioned in line with 
its correct process, which isnt instant.
I realise that Mr A is likely to be disappointed,  but overall I cant  say Trading Point  has done 
anything wrong.  Given that is the case, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask it to do anything 
now.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint against  Trading  Point of Financial  
instruments UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2242484