K821x#15complaint
Mr N is unhappy with how Admiral  Insurance Company Limited has dealt with his claim on 
his car insurance. In particular, he wants Admiral to reimburse  him for the cost of two reports  
his independent assessor prepared.
background
Mr N was involved in a car accident in May 2018. He made a claim  on his car insurance with 
Admiral. Admiral arranged for its authorised repairer  to carry out the repairs to the car.
Mr N has complained to Admiral about  a number of issues hes had with it and its authorised  
repairer in its handling  of his claim.  These include being kept on hold by Admiral  for long 
periods of time when he called up, having to chase  Admiral  for updates,  not getting promised 
call-backs and not having his emails replied  to. Hes also unhappy that Admirals authorised 
repairer was difficult to get hold of, gave him misleading information  about the repair  
estimates and was rude to him.
Mr N arranged for his own assessor to inspect the repairs  both when  the car was stripped 
down and then again just before it was returned to him. He wants Admiral  to reimburse him 
for the assessors  fees for inspecting his car and preparing two reports following those 
inspections.
Admiral upheld most of Mr Ns complaint points and paid him £200 as compensation,  as well 
as £30 for phone calls he made. But it didnt agree to pay the assessors fees. Admiral said 
its repairers were audited regularly to ensure  they were running smoothly and within  its 
guidelines and Mr Ns decision  to appoint his own assessor was at his discretion.
The investigator who looked at Mr Ns complaint has sent out two views and in both of them  
he upheld the complaint.  Admiral disagrees  and so Mr Ns complaint has come to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Like our investigator,  I think Admiral  was right to uphold  most of Mr Ns complaint, to 
compensate him £200 for the distress and inconvenience  it had caused  him and to pay him 
£30 for the cost of his calls.
I also think its right, on balance, that Admiral should reimburse Mr N £250 for his assessors 
fees.
Mr N has told us he decided to appoint  an independent assessor because hed lost all 
confidence in Admiral and its repairer. The assessor  first inspected  the car in June 2018. In 
his report he notes  the car is in a partially  dismantled state. He says that, at the time of the 
inspection, he noted some further damage  to the suspension and the estimate  has been 
updated to include  this.
Ref: DRN29393372Admiral says we cant say for sure this issue was picked  up by the assessor and, as the car 
was stripped, it wouldve expected its repairer to do so. Admiral also says an in-house 
engineer who looked at the assessors report is satisfied  this issue wouldve  been picked up 
during the repair  process and wouldve been  evident  during the rebuild or geometry check.
I think this is quite finely balanced. But while Admiral says it wouldve expected the repairer 
to pick up on the issue, it does look to me as if it had missed  something that was clearly 
evident to the assessor in the cars  partially dismantled state. I say this especially bearing in 
mind the assessor  says the repair estimate was update to reflect it. I accept its possible the 
repairer wouldve  discovered the issue  subsequently  but I think its equally possible it 
wouldnt have  the evidence I have either way isnt strong.  So I think  it is fair and 
reasonable for Admiral to reimburse Mr N for the cost of this report.
The assessor then inspected the vehicle  for a second time in late July 2018.  He said the 
repairs to the car had been completed but it still had to be quality checked and would also go 
to the manufacturer for a health  check. In his report he identified three issues  he said he was 
assured would be attended  to before the car was returned to Mr N. Admiral  says its in-house 
engineer is satisfied the issues the assessor picked up on wouldve been identified  before 
the car was returned to Mr N and without the assessors intervention.
Again, I think  this is finely balanced. But, having had an issue  identified by his assessor that 
the repairer hadnt found during the first inspection, I think  it was reasonable for Mr N to have 
his car inspected independently  a second  time before it was returned to him. And also it 
seems, again, the assessor  spotted  defects the repairer hadnt. I accept these defects may 
have been picked up subsequently  but I dont have  clear  evidence this was more likely than 
not. So, on balance,  I think  its fair and reasonable for Admiral to reimburse  Mr N for the cost 
of this second report.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ns complaint  and direct Admiral  Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr N £250  
for the cost of the independent assessors fees and reports.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2939337