K821x#15complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about how Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat, attempted  to collect 
a debt.
background
One of my ombudsman colleagues has already decided that another aspect of Mr Ms 
complaint, alleged irresponsible lending, was referred to this service  too late for us to 
consider. So although I can see that Mr M still feels strongly Cashfloats decision to lend to 
him was wrong,  I wont be looking at this in my decision.
In respect of Mr Ms complaint about Cashfloats  collection  activities,  an adjudicator  didnt 
think Cashfloat had done anything wrong. He noted  Mr M hadnt made any payments 
towards the debt and didnt appear  to have any arrangements to pay in the future.
Mr M didnt  agree; he said he was hounded day and night by Cashfloat. As no agreement 
was reached,  the complaint was passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
Mr Ms initial complaint didnt contain much detail about what he thought  Cashfloat  had done 
wrong. He referred  to incorrect  collection processes  and procedures but didnt expand upon 
this. I can see in his response  to the adjudicator he referred to excessive contact  from 
Cashfloat, so I think  this is his main  concern.  Mr M says he has evidence  of excessive 
contact, although  he has not provided  anything.
It appears that no agreement was ever reached to make repayments  towards  the loan after 
Mr M told Cashfloat he couldnt afford to repay  it. Given this, its not surprising Cashfloat  
might have made a number of attempts to contact  Mr M before deciding  to take further  
action in court. I dont  think it was unreasonable for Cashfloat  to make every  effort  to come  
to an arrangement with Mr M before taking  court  action  it might equally have been  open to 
criticism if it hadnt made  sufficient attempts. Mr M also hasnt said anything to make me 
think he made reasonable offers  to Cashfloat, nor has he suggested he made  efforts to keep 
in touch with it in regards to deciding  what (if anything) he could afford  to repay.
Cashfloat has said at times it paused  collection  activity while  Mr M tried to make  
arrangements through a third party  debt charity and it only resumed collection activities  
when the third party told Cashfloat  it didnt  have any formal arrangement and hadnt  received 
any payments from Mr M towards  a debt plan. So on balance, the evidence I have suggests  
Cashfloat behaved reasonably in attempting to collect  the debt.
It seems  Cashfloat took Mr M to court to recover the debt and that Mr M unsuccessfully tried 
to raise unfair collection practices as part of his defence.  So it may be the court also wasnt  
persuaded by Mr Ms arguments. Ive reviewed everything both parties have said and 
havent seen enough to persuade me Cashfloat  acted unfairly.
Ref: DRN20564732my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against Western Circle Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2056473