K821x#15complaint
Mr J and Mrs R are unhappy with how their claim has been handled by Mapfre Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. 
background
Mr J and Mrs R booked a holiday with their two adult children in June 2017. They were due 
to fly a year later in July 2018, but, sadly, Mrs R was diagnosed with cancer shortly before 
they were due to go away.  I was sorry to learn that her cancer had also metastasised to her 
spine and pelvis and so she was also given a terminal diagnosis.  
Mr J and Mrs R were advised  by their Doctor not to travel and so they cancelled  their trip 
and claimed under their travel insurance  policy with Mapfre. Their  complaint, in summary, is 
that Mapfre has treated  them poorly throughout the claims process.  Mr J and Mrs R have  
made a number of detailed  arguments, all of which Ive considered, but for simplicity Ive 
distilled their issues as poor customer service.  
Mapfre said it took longer  than it would have liked to assess their claim. It acknowledged  that 
Mr J and Mrs R had sent all the information it had asked for by September 2018 and that it 
took over a month  to review this. Mapfre paid their claim in accordance with the policy terms 
but this meant Mr J and Mrs R did not receive the full cost of the holiday  back due to the 
policys benefit limitation. Mapfre offered £125  compensation  for the delay. 
Our investigator did not think this was fair. She said Mapfre had let Mr J and Mrs R down on 
a number of occasions, including, failing  to recognise they were in a vulnerable  position,  not 
addressing all their complaint points and for incorrectly requesting  a Grant  of Probate when 
they raised their claim. She recommended  compensation of £500 for the overall trouble and 
upset caused  by Mapfre.
Mapfre did not agree with her recommendation and neither did Mr J and Mrs R. 
Mapfre said the award was disproportionate for the level of upset caused and made a 
reduced offer of £350  which Mr J and Mrs R did not accept. In summary, they said;
Mapfre had still not accepted that they are in a vulnerable position as its attempt to 
reduce the investigators award is proof its not taking things seriously; 
Mapfre deliberately  caused delays particularly where it asked for all members  of the 
holiday party to sign the claim  form;
The Airline Passenger  Duty term is an unfair  one, particularly because their flights were  
not direct to their destination   making  it difficult for them  to claim this money  back;
Mapfre had asked them to gain a medical  certificate despite giving a letter  from their 
Doctor explaining Mrs Rs condition.  They thought  this was particularly unhelpful and 
questioned whether the insurer should have  spoken to the Doctor directly;
The conversation  Mr J had on 24 September 2018 may not have  been  accurately 
described in Mapfres  call notes.  Mr J said Mapfre unfairly questioned Mrs Rs history  
with back pain, suggesting  that perhaps  it was a pre-existing medical condition that had 
Ref: DRN29423712not been disclosed. Mr J found this unprofessional  and insensitive and;
Mapfre, when told about Mrs Rs illness,  asked  for a grant of probate  before it could 
move their claim  forward.  They  were also unhappy  that it denied this later when asked by 
this service.
And so its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigators recommendation of £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. I 
wanted to acknowledge the difficult time that Mr J, Mrs R and their family are going through. 
And that Ive carefully considered their arguments  against this backdrop. I think it fair to say 
that Mapfre could  have handled things  better  than it did, but I also think £500 compensation 
for the trouble and upset  it caused is fair. Ill explain  why.
vulnerable customers   
Our investigator highlighted Mr J and Mrs Rs circumstances appeared not to be fully 
recognised by Mapfre. She said that given the difficult personal circumstances 
surrounding their claim Mapfre should have handled things  differently.  I agree  with 
her finding here. I think it reasonable to expect Mapfre  to have tailored the level of 
service it provided  by prioritising  their claim, rather than delaying it unnecessarily for 
around one month. During that time,  I note it was Mr J and Mrs R who were  chasing 
Mapfre for updates,  to which  they received no reply. I think its also worth highlighting 
they had submitted their claim in June, yet it was not settled until the end of October. 
This was partly  because  of inefficient claims handling, but also other external factors  
playing a part, like the delay caused by Mrs Rs GP  which  I could not fairly hold 
Mapfre responsible  for. I take on board Mr Js suggestion that Mapfre  should  have  
contacted Mrs Rs Doctor to establish the circumstances surrounding her diagnosis. 
But I would not expect it to do this. The reason being that the responsibility lay with 
Mr J and Mrs R to substantiate  their claim so Mapfre could validate  it.
I also thought  it particularly insensitive that some  claims handlers appeared not to 
familiarise themselves  with the intricacies  of this case  and requested  information that 
was either already  available, like a medical diagnosis, or by simply asking for 
information that was not relevant. In the claim form, it asked questions  about whether 
a third party was involved  in the claim and whether Mr J and Mrs R could give a more 
detailed description  of the incident that led to the claim. This was despite Mapfre  
already being  told that Mrs R was seriously  ill and that being the reason they were 
unable to go on holiday. I can see how these questions would have likely caused 
friction because it felt very impersonal. The insurer is entitled  to ask questions  to 
validate a potential claim, but given these particular circumstances,  I think it could 
have taken reasonable steps  to tailor  its approach here and recognise  that Mr J and 
Mrs R were likely to be in a vulnerable  position  and would have benefited from a 
more human approach. 
Mr J and Mrs R have argued that Mapfres decision  to reduce our investigators  
recommendation of compensation  is, in some way, proof that its still not fully 
accepted their vulnerability. But Im not persuaded thats  the case here. Mapfres  
Ref: DRN29423713entitled to reach a view on their complaint  and I note its increased its initial  offer of 
compensation of £125. And so this demonstrates  to me that its understood the 
particular sensitivities around this complaint and its increased offer is an attempt to 
put things right. I do, however, agree this is not enough, which  is why Im awarding a 
higher amount of compensation.    
Delays
There were  times when Mapfre caused  delays handling this claim. These have been 
accurately identified in our investigators  findings  and so I see little value in repeating 
them here. But I thought it worth  exploring Mr J and Mrs Rs point about Mapfre 
causing unnecessary delays  when  it asked for all beneficiaries  under  the policy to 
sign the claim form.  
Mr J said Mapfre attempted to cause further delays by asking for all parties  to the 
claim to sign the claim form. He went on to describe the difficulties he encountered 
with this as the other travellers were their children, who were  not as readily 
accessible as he and Mrs R were  which added to the overall delay. But I do not 
think it fair to hold Mapfre responsible for this and Ive seen no evidence  to suggest it 
was unreasonable to request all beneficiaries to sign the claim form. I say that 
because Mapfre has a responsibility to ensure all beneficiaries under the policy are in 
agreement that a claim can be brought. Further, the claim itself concerns all four 
travelling family  members and so any award made under  the policy could potentially 
be paid to them as the beneficiaries. I do not find Mapfres position  here 
unreasonable as its consistent with other good  industry practices. 
Airline Passenger Duty
Airline passenger  duty, or flight taxes,  as they are more commonly known, were 
payable on this trip. Mr J and Mrs R have challenged  Mapfres  terms on this saying 
its an unfair term and therefore  should  not be relied upon.  Ive considered the 
arguments they have made, but Im not persuaded by them. Mr J has drawn parallels  
to other  unfair terms and has made  connections  with The Consumer  Right Acts 2015. 
But for the purposes of my final decision,  I consider  this term to be a reasonable one 
and that its been  applied  fairly.  Its also not an uncommon  term, that is to say, many 
travel insurers choose  not to cover it. And so I do not find in their favour here.  But 
even if I did, it would make no difference to their claim because  the policy limit has 
already been reached. The policy limit was £5,000  per person and so Mr J and Mrs R 
only received £20,000  of a holiday costing upwards of £26,000. 
The Call
Mr J had a conversation with Mapfre on 24 September 2018. Our investigator 
referred to the documented call notes of this conversation in her view, to which  Mr J 
said was a sanitised version  of what was discussed. Mr Js complaint here is that 
Mapfre had attempted  to absolve  its responsibility to pay the claim,  by potentially 
declining it because  of an undisclosed  pre-existing medical  condition  for Mrs R. 
Ive listened  to this call and Im not persuaded this was the case. Its not in dispute  
that Mr J was, understandably, very upset given  the wider circumstances of this 
complaint. This was further exacerbated by Mapfres administrative errors, like 
incorrectly requesting  a Grant of Probate.  But I noted Mapfre apologised for this 
Ref: DRN29423714during the call. I think its fair to say the conversation was tense and quickly  became 
unproductive. 
Mapfre attempted to explain  why it needed  further medical evidence to validate the 
claim, but Mr J became  very upset.  There were times during the conversation  where 
it felt threatening,  particularly when Mr J said;
I tell you what, if you dont pay up, you will never, ever, have regretted a decision so 
much in your life
Towards the end of the call, Mr J was upset further and raised his voice at the call 
handler. I do not think this was fair. I accept Mr J was upset at having to deal with 
what he called administrative matters. But this was necessary for Mapfre  to validate  
his claim.  Mr J quoted  part of Mrs Rs letter from the Doctor,  which made  a reference 
to back pain. The representative attempted to question this further  and this is where  
Mr J became distressed.
This resulted in Mapfre terminating the call  which I thought was the right thing to do 
as it quickly became unproductive. But I should  also say Mapfre was entitled to ask 
questions about  this. I did not find any evidence  to suggest it did so unprofessionally, 
or rudely.  It was simply attempting  to gather further information.    
Grant of Probate
I was surprised to see Mapfre contest this point made  by Mr J and Mrs R, particularly 
as they had provided evidence which confirmed Mapfre had asked for this 
information. Mapfre eventually conceded and accepted it had sent an email of this 
nature and apologised. Our investigator  did not think an apology was enough  and 
neither do I. This was another  example of a lack of attention to detail, on a case 
where there had already been  occurrences of a similar nature.  Mapfre  should also 
have given more  thought to the difficult time both Mr J and Mrs R were going 
through. And so an error like this, can and did, have a very big impact.  Part of the 
email is included below.
please send us the Grant  of Probate or letter of administration, so that any payment 
can be made in favour of the deceaseds  estate, original or certified  death  certificate
I take on board Mapfres argument that this was a mistake and that it was corrected 
almost immediately. But this does not dull the pain caused by its mistake, given the 
wider circumstances  of this complaint. This is the main reason I believe £500  
compensation is fair because although  its difficult to put a figure on the damage  this 
email caused, I think it feels fair as its in line with other awards made by this service  
for complaints  of a similar nature.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr J and Mrs Rs complaint and to put things right,  Mapfre  
Asistencia, Compania  Internacional  De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. must pay £500 
compensation for the trouble and upset  it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2019.
Ref: DRN29423715Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2942371