K820x#14Complaint
Mr D has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) hasnt  displayed  or 
provided him with the Annual Percentage  Rate (APR) on his overdraft.  
Background
In the summer  of 2017, Halifax announced  it would be changing its overdraft pricing 
structure in November 2017.  It was moving  from a pricing model which charged a fixed  fee 
per day for borrowing within a certain  limit to one where it would charge 1p a day for every 
£7 borrowed. 
Mr D complained to Halifax before these changes came in. He was unhappy his overdraft 
would cost more  to use and he also said Halifax failed to display the APR for its new 
structure. Halifax didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint.  It said it was entitled to change its pricing 
structure and while  this meant some customers might end up paying more, it had transitional  
arrangements in place to mitigate this. It also said the nature of the pricing structure meant  it 
wasnt possible to display  the APR. Mr D remained dissatisfied and referred  his complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ds concerns. He didnt  think  Halifax  had done  
anything wrong  or treated Mr D unfairly  and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
Mr D disagreed and so the complaint  was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D says Halifax didnt display or provide him with the APR for his overdraft. Ive thought 
about what Mr D has said. But it may help for me to start by explaining that using an 
example or representative APR is only one of the ways a bank can explain the costs of an 
overdraft. 
I accept that the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), as part of its 2018 and 2019 High cost 
credit: overdrafts review,  concluded that APRs  were the simplest and most transparent way 
of displaying  the cost of an overdraft   especially in terms  of comparing the cost between 
banks and to other  forms of credit. But the new rules which  followed the review  only came 
into force  in April 2020. A requirement  for a bank  to display the APR of an overdraft wasnt in 
place prior to this and the new requirement wasnt retrospective either. 
So while Im not entirely  persuaded  by Halifaxs argument that the nature of the pricing 
structure it introduced  in November 2017 meant it wasnt possible to display an APR, as it 
wasnt required to do so at this time, I dont think its failure to display an APR meant that it 
did something wrong.
Id also add  even if only for the sake of completeness - that even if these new FCA 
requirements had been  in place at the time of the change in pricing structure,  it isnt my role 
to punish a firm for a rule breach or to enforce the Banking:  Conduct  of Business sourcebook 
(BCOBS). These are matters for the FCA. 
Ref: DRN20606362My role is to look at whether a complainant might have lost out in the event I find that a firm 
did something wrong. In practical terms this means  I wouldnt tell a firm to pay compensation 
to a complainant  just for failing to display an APR. But I might  tell it to do so in circumstances 
where the failure to display an APR caused  a complainant to lose out. For example  in 
circumstances where  the failure to display an APR misled  a customer into believing  an 
overdraft was cheaper than it was and they ended up paying  more than they would  have 
done had the APR been displayed.
I dont think that happened  here though.  I say this because Mr D immediately realised that 
the new pricing structure meant hed pay more  when using his overdraft. Indeed, this formed 
part of his initial complaint to Halifax. Mr Ds account  statements show  that he used his 
overdraft a lot less after the pricing structure  changed  in November 2017. So I dont  think  he 
had no alternative  to using his overdraft  and it seems to me Mr D may well have used his 
overdraft a lot less heavily then hed been done previously because he didnt want to pay the 
increased charges  of the new pricing  structure.  
In any event, regardless of his reasons for using  his overdraft less, Mr D knew  itd cost more  
and as far as I can see he didnt  pay any extra   at least in the initial few months after the 
changes took place. So even if I were to find that Halifax ought to have  displayed  an APR for 
Mr Ds overdraft  for the avoidance of doubt I want to make it clear  that I dont find this is 
the case - I dont think Mr D lost out as a result  of a failure to do so. Therefore, bearing in 
mind all of the circumstances, I dont think that Halifax did anything wrong and I dont think 
that it treated  Mr D unfairly either.  It follows that Im not upholding this complaint.    
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2060636