K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that AJ Bell Asset Management Limited (AJ Bell) breached its best 
execution obligations  by failing to settle  in pounds sterling when it sold two funds held in his 
Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP)  that were denominated  in foreign currency  and this 
caused him a financial  loss, namely AJ Bells foreign currency commission charges.
background
Mr A had a SIPP administered by AJ Bell. In April 2017 he telephoned it to instruct  it to sell 
his holdings in two funds; one denominated in US dollars and one in Euros.
 
AJ Bell placed instructions to sell the funds, and these were settled in the currency  of the 
funds. AJ Bell then charged Mr A an FX (foreign  exchange) charge of 1%, amounting to 
£4,176.62.
When he noticed this sometime later, he wrote to AJ Bell in August 2018 to complain. He 
said that if AJ Bell had requested  the funds to settle in pounds  sterling,  he wouldnt have had 
to pay the FX charge.  He wanted  the charge refunded. He didnt think AJ Bell had complied 
with that part of its order execution policy which he said required it to ensure  the total 
consideration of the order is the best outcome. 
AJ Bell spoke with him and as a goodwill gesture it offered to reduce the FX charge to bring 
it in line with its since revised FX charging  structure.  This wouldve reduced the charge to 
£1,344.09. Mr A didnt  accept this, as he still didnt think  he shouldve had to pay any FX 
charges. 
Mr A wrote again in mid-October as he hadnt  received a written response  to his complaint. 
In response, AJ Bell said that historically  it had requested settlement in GBP  and fund 
managers had sent foreign currency to AJ Bells UK account. This led to customers  incurring 
higher High Street  bank  FX charges  and being  financially disadvantaged  as a result.  
Because of this, AJ Bell now completes  any FX conversions once in receipt of the monies, 
and this ensures  customers dont  incur FX charges twice,  both by it and by the bank. It also 
added that it wasnt  always aware of which  currencies fund managers, can, or will, settle in. 
To mitigate  these issues and to ensure best execution based on likelihood  of settlement 
when placing a deal in a foreign currency AJ Bell now ensures it settles  in the local currency. 
It also referred Mr A to its Order execution policy, which it said hed agreed to when he took 
out his SIPP.  
There was some further correspondence  between  Mr A and AJ Bell but as it didnt change 
the position Mr A brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt think AJ Bell had breached  its 
execution policy. He noted that AJ Bell had said that if Mr A had asked for the deal to settle  
in GBP it wouldve  endeavoured  to do so, but Mr A hadnt asked.
Mr A didnt agree, and provided detailed commentary on our investigators view, as well as 
re-iterating his own position,  which  can be relevantly summarised as follows:
By selecting redemption in the foreign currency AJ Bell didnt follow its order 
execution policy in relation to charges and total consideration  of the order. 
Ref: DRN22596392The fund in question  offers the option to settle in GBP,  AJ Bell had previously done 
so for Mr A, and hadnt made Mr A aware  of the policy  change, so he hadnt been 
aware of any need to give a specific instruction to settle in GBP.
Mr A did not accept AJ Bells rationale  for its policy  change, as if a fund manager 
offers settlement in GBP,  and that is requested, and the manager then settles in a 
foreign currency, this would be a cut and dried  case of manager error, which the 
manager would have to make whole.  
The indicative rate for settlement of the USD fund into GBP was competitive, so that 
didnt provide a reason for settlement in local currency under the execution rules.  
This didnt  change our investigators view, so the complaint came to me for decision from an 
ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 May 2020. My provisional findings were:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold Mr As 
complaint and I propose to tell AJ Bell to refund the FX charge to Mr A in its entirety. Ill 
explain why shortly, but before I do so I should explain that I wont deal with every  point 
made by AJ Bell and Mr A in their communications with us and with each other. I mean no 
discourtesy in not doing so but Ill only deal with those points I think  are necessary for me to 
consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable. Similarly, I havent set out our 
investigators view at any length in the background, as I decide a case with fresh eyes, Im 
not bound  by anything our investigator  has said. 
Mr A has provided evidence to show that AJ Bell couldve elected to tell the fund managers 
to settle the fund redemptions in GBP and this hasnt been contested. AJ Bells decision to 
elect for settlement  in the local currencies of USD  and Euro meant that the AJ Bell then had 
to arrange for the conversion of these currencies into GBP,  which  entitled  it to an FX charge  
of what was then set at 1% of the deal price. If settlement had been  in GBP then there 
wouldve been no separate  FX charge by AJ Bell. That is also not disputed. 
Both Mr A and AJ Bell have pointed  to the Order  Execution Policy as justification for their 
positions. Im not going to deal with those arguments as I think the complaint  can be 
determined on a simple  point. 
AJ Bell acknowledge that it changed its policy on settlement of funds in GBP without 
notifying Mr A or any of its other  customers.  It says it wasnt  required to do so. Im not 
convinced that is the case.  Even  if it only affected a small number of Funds  and customers  
as AJ Bell suggest,  it can have a significant impact, as it has in Mr As case. 
It also says Mr A didnt give it specific instructions to obtain settlement in GBP and it 
wouldve followed those if he had. But given that Mr A had previously requested redemptions 
from these two Funds and they had been  settled in GBP I dont think it is reasonable of AJ 
Bell to rely on this, as in the absence of being  told of the change in policy,  Mr A wouldnt 
have known he needed to. 
Im satisfied that it is more  likely than not that if Mr A had been aware that he needed to give 
specific instructions that the redemptions of the Funds be settled in GBP he wouldve done 
so. Mr A is a knowledgeable client  and it is clear if AJ Bell had informed him of the risks of 
proceeding then he was in a position to assess those  risks,  which seem to me to be mainly 
in the FX rate that the Funds bank  would be able to achieve. 
Ref: DRN22596393It follows from this that I think the failure  to inform Mr A of the change  in policy  has caused 
him a financial loss. Im not sure that it is quite as simple as saying  that the loss equals  the 
FX charge. The true measure of loss would  be arrived at by seeing  what the Funds wouldve 
settled in in GBP versus  the rate achieved by AJ Bell, and then making  the relevant 
adjustment of the FX charges. But our service is set up to resolve complaints informally so 
Im not going  to do that, and it may not even be possible now to be sure what  rate wouldve  
been obtained. I think it is reasonable to use the FX fees as a measure  of the loss, so that is 
what I propose to do, subject to any comments I receive from the parties .
My provisional decision was that AJ Bell must  pay the amount of £4,176.62 into Mr As SIPP 
account, if the fee was deducted from there and the account is still in existence, and 
otherwise it must pay Mr A the amount directly
Mr A indicated he accepted my provisional  decision,  if AJ Bell did the same. In late July AJ 
Bell told us, and provided evidence, that it had rebooked the two transactions without any FX 
charges, but otherwise didnt comment on my provisional decision. It also informed Mr A. He 
then told us that the case had been resolved to his satisfaction as AJ Bell have complied 
with the ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The rebooking of the deals by AJ Bell has 
resulted in the refund to Mr As SIPP of £4,176.35, representing the FX charges. I note this 
figure is very slightly different (27 pence less)  to the amount  in my provisional decision 
(which I took from AJ Bells final response  letter).  But Im satisfied that AJ Bells actions in 
rebooking the deals  are a fair outcome so my final decision will be in the same  terms, for the 
reasons given here and in my provisional findings  above. 
my final decision
My final decision is that AJ Bell Asset Management Limited must rebook the two deals 
without deducting  any FX charges,  unless it has done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2259639