K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Astrenska Insurance  Limited  is responsible for damage in connection 
with a home emergency insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with complaints against insurance companies and 
other regulated financial firms. Where we receive  a complaint about a claim under  an 
insurance policy we deal with it as a complaint against the insurance company  that was 
responsible for dealing  with that claim.
In our final decision we name that insurance  company  but we dont name any other  
company or individual.
Mr B owns  a flat that he lets to tenants.  He had a landlords home emergency policy bearing 
the name of an insurance intermediary. The insurance company  responsible for dealing  with 
claims was Astrenska.
On Sunday 3 February 2019 there  was a leak from a radiator pipe. Mr B called for help 
under the policy.  So he was making  a claim under the policy.
Where I refer to Astrenska I include the intermediary, engineers  and others insofar as I hold 
Astrenska responsible for their actions.
Astrenska sent a plumber who isolated  the radiator and re-pressurised the system to restore 
heating and hot water.
But on the morning  of Wednesday 6 February  the tenants reported there  was no heating  or 
hot water  and the boiler was leaking water. Astrenska sent an engineer.
Mr B complained to the intermediary that on 3 February the plumber had left the filling loop 
partially open, which over-pressurised the boiler  and caused  damage to it including  its 
pressure relief valve (PRV) and expansion  vessel.
Astrenska sent a final response  letter.  It said the filling loop being partially open dislodged 
sludge, which caused the parts to fail. But as sludge  wasnt  covered by the policy  Astrenska 
wouldnt cover  Mr Bs claim. It said it was sending Mr B £20.00 for poor service.
Unhappy with that response, Mr B brought  his complaint to us.
On about 18 April 2019 Mr B engaged a private  plumbing and heating company to replace 
the boiler. Its invoice  was for £1,451.00.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator treated the complaint  as against the intermediary  whom she referred  to as 
Astrenska. She recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part.
She thought  that there had been scale and sludge  in the system. So she didnt recommend 
that Astrenska should  pay the full cost of the new boiler. 
Ref: DRN26385752She thought  that if the filling loop hadnt  been  left open, the parts wouldnt have failed  when 
they did. She recommended that Astrenska  should  pay Mr B compensation for half the costs  
of the boiler. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to Astrenska  on 17 March 2020. I summarise  my findings:
I wasnt minded to find it fair and reasonable that Astrenska should rely on the policy  
exclusion of failure  caused  by sludge.
Mr B had a boiler that was seven years  old. He had a reasonable expectation that it 
would continue to work  for several more  years to come.  To put it another way, he had 
a reasonable expectation  that he wouldnt have to pay for a new boiler for several 
years to come.
Instead he paid for a new boiler in April 2019. The invoice included a power flush  and 
a magnetic filter. But I thought thats  common practice.
Subject to any further information from Mr B or from Astrenska, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct  Astrenska Insurance  
Limited to pay Mr B:
1.£725.00 towards the cost of installing the new boiler; and
2.simple interest on that amount at the yearly rate of 8% from 18 April 2019 to the date 
it pays him. If Astrenska considers that HM Revenue  and Customs  requires it to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it must tell Mr B how much  its taken off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Mr B agreed with the provisional decision.
Astrenska didnt agree with the provisional decision.  It says in summary, that:
The morning after the repair,  the landlord said the boiler pressure was dropping and 
he asked for another visit.  Astrenska contacted the tenant  and asked to check  the 
boiler pressure and confirmed it was fine and had not dropped  and there were no 
leaks on the boiler.  It is therefore  unclear  what was happening here, but when 
checked the day after the repair, there were no leaks and no pressure issues  
according to the tenant.
If the landlord has suggested the pressure had dropped,  has someone else tried to 
re-pressurise the boiler and left the filling loop slightly open?
The engineer  is less likely to leave the filling loop open; they re-filled  the system  after 
the repair and would  have closed this once it reached the correct pressure.  When  
opening the valve, you can hear the water entering the system.  It is possible that the 
pressure dropped later due to air in the system and was re-pressurised by the tenant. 
This system appears to have been in poor condition  internally  with failure of internal 
parts, e.g. the pressure release valve should dump  any excessive pressure from the 
system.  
Ref: DRN26385753my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Astrenskas file includes a note that Mr Bs boiler was seven years old.
The policy included repairs to the central heating  system and its boiler. But I see that was 
subject to a financial  limit of £500.00.  
The policy had the following exclusion:
any water pressure adjustments or failure caused through hard water  scale  or 
sludge.
The policy didnt cover an annual service. 
From an inspection certificate I see that an independent plumber did an annual service  on 30 
January 2019.  His later statement  said the boiler  was in perfect working order. I dont accept 
that this shows that the boiler was free from sludge. 
But I find it likely that the plumber would have noted  if the boiler was suffering  from a failed 
PRV and a failed expansion  vessel. So I find that it was free of such faults.
When Mr B called for help on 3 February 2019, he received a dozen calls.  In its final 
response letter, the intermediary apologised that it had caused confusion  and inconvenience  
by appointing two firms.
The final response  letter also said the following:
On the balance of probabilities I would  be of the opinion that the operative 
inadvertently left the filling loop open 
So I find it more likely  than not that on 3 February  2019 the plumber  had left the filling loop at 
least partly  open when he shouldve left it closed.  
All the technical  evidence says that this would cause the system to fill to the mains  water 
pressure. And if that was over the set limit of safe pressure, then the PRV would release 
water continually to reduce the pressure. But, as the final response letter said:
the PRV failed, which in turn caused  the expansion vessel to fail
In the final response  letter, the intermediary also apologised  that  after he rang for help on 6 
February  Mr B was transferred to the firm who had sent the plumber on 3 February.
Astrenska sent another engineer. He said the boiler needed replacement of the PRV,  
expansion vessel, diverter body  and motor. He also said the system contained sludge and 
that - before the parts  were  fitted - a power flush was required. 
Astrenska said the boiler  was beyond economical repair  (BER). So I dont  find it fair for it 
now to say that Mr B shouldve got the boiler  repaired.
Ref: DRN26385754The final response  letter included  the following:
when  the filling loop was left partially  open  this would have displaced the sludge and 
caused the parts to fail.
Astrenskas complaints handler later told us the following:
the most likely reason that the valve did not shut [is] because the valves  seat had 
deposits of limescale,  magnate or similar on it.
But that doesnt explain why the PRV failing in the open position  would cause  over-
pressurisation.
In any event, Mr B is no longer making a claim for replacement of the PRV, expansion 
vessel and other parts  under  the policy. Rather  he is complaining that those  parts were 
damaged by the failure to close  the filling loop - for which Astrenska is responsible.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable that Astrenska should rely on the policy exclusion of 
failure caused by sludge.
Ive thought about whats fair and reasonable to try to put Mr B back in the financial position 
he wouldve been  in if Astrenska hadnt  failed  to close the filling  loop. 
He had a boiler  that was seven years  old. He had a reasonable expectation that it would 
continue to work for several more  years to come. To put it another way, he had a reasonable 
expectation that he wouldnt have to pay for a new boiler for several years  to come.
Instead he paid for a new boiler in April 2019. Ive seen the invoice. It included  a power flush 
and a magnetic  filter. But I think thats  common practice.
Overall I find it fair and reasonable to direct Astrenska to pay Mr B £725.00 towards the cost 
of installing  the new boiler.
As Mr B has been out of pocket since  18 April 2019 I also find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Astrenska to pay interest at our usual rate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Astrenska Insurance  Limited  to pay Mr B:
1.£725.00 towards the cost of installing the new boiler; and
2.simple interest on that amount at the yearly rate of 8% from 18 April 2019 to the date 
it pays him. If Astrenska considers that HM Revenue  and Customs  requires it to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it must tell Mr B how much  its taken off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Ref: DRN26385755Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2638575