K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the valuation of his property  by HSBC UK Bank  plc which  meant that 
his application  for a mortgage product was declined. Mr K complains that he has had to pay 
the standard variable rate (SVR) for over four years.
background
In 2014 Mr K wanted to fix his interest rate with a mortgage product. HSBC required a 
valuation and instructed surveyors who valued  the property at £465,000 in August 2014.  
Mr K challenged this and eventually in October  2014 another  firm of surveyors  valued the 
property at £500,000. But neither valuation valued  the property within the 80% loan to value  
bracket where Mr K believed that it should  have been. Mr K remained unhappy  with the 
valuation and he remained on the SVR. Afterwards Mr Ks account went  into arrears  and he 
was unable to take out a mortgage  product until 2018. Mr K feels  that his problems  were  
caused by the valuations  in 2014.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as he didnt believe 
that HSBC had done anything wrong.  Mr K disagreed saying that a valuation shouldnt  have  
been needed in the first place as none  was required in 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  that in 2014 HSBC did an internal valuation which  Mr K wasnt  happy  with and 
HSBC instructed external valuers. Ive seen that valuation  dated 11 August 2014  and note 
that there  is a comment that it believes the estimated valuation provided  by MR K is 
considered  to be high and is not supported by evidence of sales in the locality . There  is a 
note that Mr K wasnt happy with the valuation  and provided a valuation  by another estate 
agent which valued the property much higher. I note that in his letter of October 2014 Mr K 
asked HSBC to accept that its valuation was flawed and to put the new mortgage product in 
place or get a new valuation. In response  HSBC commissioned a further valuation  in 
October 2014 which valued the property at £500,000 which  meant that the LTV was now 
below 90% although not what  Mr K expected. I note that in October 2014 HSBC offered to 
look at fixing Mr Ks rate on that basis but nothing  became of it.
HSBC arent  valuers but in this case used  two outside firms of surveyors  with the appropriate 
qualifications. There was a disagreement between these firms and the market  appraisal that 
Mr K got. My role isnt to decide  what the value of Mr Ks property was in 2014 but whether 
HSBC did anything wrong. I dont see anything wrong in HSBC firstly getting a valuation. If 
the type of mortgage product that it was going  to offer Mr K depended  on the LTV of the 
property clearly the value  of the property was important. If HSBCs processes have now 
changed as Mr K believes, that doesnt necessarily mean that they were  wrong  in 2014. But 
it would  seem that the reason that HSBC got an external valuation  in 2014 was because Mr 
K challenged  the internal valuation which wasnt the case in 2018. 
I see that when  Mr K challenged the valuation HSBC got a further valuation  at its own 
expense. This valuation  was less than what Mr Ks agent said.  But HSBC  had engaged a 
Ref: DRN22781392suitably qualified valuer who owed it a duty of care. It should  be able to rely on the advice it 
got and I believe  that it was reasonable  for it to rely on that valuation. Given  that, my view is 
that HSBC hasnt done anything wrong  and I cant  fairly uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2278139