K820x#14complaint
Ms Ps complaint is that CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as Pounds to Pocket (P2P), unfairly 
recorded a default against her. Ms P has more recently said she thinks the loan was 
provided irresponsibly.
background
I sent both parties  my provisional  thoughts on this complaint on 19 August 2019. A copy  of 
my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.  In it I explained why 
I wasnt planning to uphold Ms Ps complaint. I asked both parties to let me know if they had 
anything to add.
P2P didnt have anything new to add. Ms P made  a number  of points:
She requested  monthly payments but P2P took payments  whenever  it wanted.
If the payments  she made were allocated on a monthly basis, payments were only 
missed for two consecutive months.
She didnt set up the online payment  plan mentioned by P2P.
Ms P also wanted to provide  itemised call records from her phone supplier but unfortunately 
couldnt obtain this information.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
I have carefully considered the points Ms P made in response to my provisional  decision  
but I do not think they change the outcome. Ill explain  why. 
P2P has provided the original loan agreement and it makes  it clear that payments of £86.96 
were due fortnightly.  I havent seen evidence of any alternative monthly agreement.  So 
I dont think P2P did anything wrong if it initially  attempted to collect  the contractual 
payments on a fortnightly basis.
Ive again reviewed the payments made to the account. Only one of the fortnightly payments 
was made  in December  2018 and four of the payments due in November, December and 
January were missed.  I think it was reasonably clear by the end of January that the original 
loan agreement wasnt functioning as either party would expect.
Ive seen that P2P notified Ms P that her account  was still in arrears on 10 January 2019  and 
I havent seen  that any further corrective action was taken by Ms P after that point, before 
the default notice was sent on 2 February  2019. 
P2P says that the February  2019  repayment plan was set up on 8 February, after it had 
already notified  Ms P of the default.  Ms P says the repayment plan was agreed  even  later 
than this. 
So whilst both parties dispute exactly what was agreed in February,  it seems  likely that 
whatever the agreement, it was agreed too late to avoid  the loan defaulting. So even  though 
Ref: DRN26383052I found it wasnt likely P2P made  an error when it tried to take the £1,297.17 payment 
rejected by Ms Ps bank,  even if there  was an error, the mistake would have occurred after 
this loan was already  considered to be in default and so there would be no real difference  to 
the information recorded on Ms Ps credit  file.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded I should  depart from my provisional findings and am 
not upholding Ms Ps complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Ms Ps complaint  against CashEuroNet UK LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26383053COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms Ps complaint  is that CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as Pounds to Pocket  (P2P), unfairly 
recorded a default against her. Shes more  recently said that she thinks  the loan was provided 
irresponsibly.
background
Ms P took out a £1,200 instalment loan with P2P in November 2018. The loan was scheduled to be 
repaid in fortnightly repayments of about £87. Unfortunately the loan fell into arrears and was reported 
as defaulted in March  2019.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint, but didnt think  P2P needed to remove the default. 
As Ms P didnt  agree  with the adjudicator, the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken into account the law, good industry  practice and any 
relevant regulations at the time.
Before I set out my findings, I feel its only right to say how sorry  I was to hear of the tragic 
circumstances in which  Ms P found herself. Shes clearly been though a very difficult  time and I 
naturally have a great deal of sympathy for her. I hope she understands that my consideration of her 
complaint must be limited to deciding whether P2P did anything wrong, even if the consequences of 
the default  seem to her to be disproportionate.
was the loan provided  irresponsibly?
This didnt form part of Ms Ps original complaint  but this service has an inquisitorial remit  and the 
issue is closely linked to whether its fair for P2P to have  recorded a default. After  all, if I felt the loan 
was provided  irresponsibly then its likely  Id ask P2P to remove the default and so the issue of 
whether the default was fairly applied in the first place would fall away.
So in this case, I dont  think its right for me to say Ms P should make a separate  complaint about this 
to P2P. P2P has already  provided enough information  for me to consider whether the loan was lent 
responsibly  having provided essentially the same information it would normally provide for a 
complaint about alleged irresponsible lending.
Before lending  to Ms P, P2P asked her about her income  and expenditure. Ms P declared net monthly  
income of £3,250 and total monthly livings costs  of £1,651.50. P2P also carried  out a credit check.
I think  the above checks  were proportionate in the circumstances of Ms Ps loan application. Based 
on Ms Ps declared income and expenditure, P2P had no reason to believe the loan would  be 
unaffordable for her. So I dont think it lent irresponsibly and I dont intend to uphold this aspect  of Ms 
Ps complaint.
was P2P right to default Ms Ps loan?
It seems Ms Ps loan was in difficulty  from the outset  with late fees and default interest charges  
applied from November and December 2018. I dont intend to set out the full history of the loan here 
however, as I think the complaint turns  on a particular point of contention.
Ref: DRN26383054Ms P says she called  P2P in February 2019 and agreed  to make a payment of £1,200 on 
15 February. She says that P2P made an error  and tried to collect £1,297.17  which was returned as 
there were insufficient funds  to pay the higher amount.
P2P says Ms P set up a payment plan online on 8 February 2019 for £200 to be paid on 
12 February and then £1,297.17  on 15 February 2019.
Ive not seen  clear evidence to support what either party says. P2P has provided no record or 
correspondence to suggest Ms P did set up an online repayment plan. Equally, theres  no evidence of 
phone calls or correspondence  regarding  the plan Ms P says was agreed.  
What is clear is that something  mustve  been agreed  because  P2P did try to take the payment of 
£1,297.17 on 15 February 2019. So the question is did P2P make an error in attempting to take this 
payment?
Ive carefully considered this point  and on balance, I dont think its likely P2P made an error when it 
tried to take the £1,297.17 payment. 
I say this because I think had Ms P spoken to P2P by phone in February  its likely  P2P would either  
have some record of this call, or the payment plan. Ive noted  that after a later call  in March 2019  
it followed up the call with an email setting out the new payment arrangement. Id expect to have seen 
the same had Ms P spoken to P2P a month earlier.
Ive also listened to the March 2019 phone call in which  a new arrangement was set up, after the loan 
was defaulted by P2P. At one point, P2P and Ms P discuss  the default   and P2P tell her that its 
possible it couldve been avoided if theyd spoken earlier. Ms P (understandably in the circumstances) 
says her mind was elsewhere. But this comment does tend to support P2Ps  position  that no earlier 
arrangement was agreed by phone. Given the seriousness  of the situation  had an earlier verbal 
arrangement been made and not kept to by P2P,  Id have expected Ms P to raise it during this call.
As Ive provisionally found P2P didnt make  an error in trying to take the £1,297.17 payment, I think it 
follows that Ms Ps account  was fairly reported to be in default. The contractual  payments were not 
made and it appears likely  the alternative arrangement  was also broken. A significant  number of 
payments had been missed  by March 2019  and so it wasnt unreasonable for P2P to report this loan 
as being in default.
I will of course reconsider the complaint  including  any new information  Ms P or P2P want  to provide 
 after the deadline for responses to this provisional decision.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not plan to uphold Ms Ps complaint against CashEuroNet UK LLC.
Ref: DRN2638305