K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly avoided his motor insurance policy.  
When taking out the policy and for this complaint Mr Bs wife, Mrs B, has acted as his 
representative.   
background
In July 2018 Mrs B took out an Aviva  van insurance policy  in Mr Bs name.  She got a quote 
through a price comparison website. She then called a broker to confirm policy details and  
pay for the cover.  
Mr Bs son was a named  driver on the policy. He made a claim  on the policy  for damage  to 
the van. Soon after Aviva  said the policy had been  incorrectly set up. Mr B was recorded as 
the policyholder,  main  driver, owner and registered keeper of the van. But Aviva  felt his son 
was really the main  driver,  owner and registered keeper. It said Mrs B had done  this 
deliberately to get cheaper cover for his son. So, it avoided  the policy (treating it as though it 
never existed) and refused to deal with the claim.
Mrs B complained to Aviva that the avoidance  was unfair. She says Mr Bs the main driver   
he uses it during week  days and their son uses it only during evenings and weekends.  But 
Aviva didnt change  its position. Mrs B wants the policy  reinstated and compensation for the 
inconvenience of being unable to use the van. 
Our Investigator  felt Aviva had fairly  avoided the policy. Mrs B didnt accept that. So, the 
complaint has come  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When taking out the policy Mr B or anyone acting  on his behalf, like Mrs B, had a 
responsibility - under  the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA) - to take reasonable  care not to make a misrepresentation. And for Aviva to take 
any action at all it needs to show that didnt  happen  and that there was whats  described as 
a qualifying misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of things that need to be considered when deciding  whether a 
consumer failed to take reasonable care. One of these considerations is the questions  the 
consumer was asked.  Ive listened to the call where Mrs B confirmed  policy details with the 
broker. The broker asked in (in reference  to Mr B) and hes the main  driver on the 
policy?. I think this was a clear  question.  Mrs B answered Hell be the main driver, yes, my 
son wants to insure  himself as hell drive  it occasionally. Mrs B was also asked  (again  in 
reference to Mr B) and hes the sole registered legal owner and keeper . I think thats a 
clear question too. Mrs B answered yeah .
Ref: DRN23506232As the broker was also acting as an agent  for Mr B it was required to take reasonable care 
not to make  a misrepresentation on his behalf. The broker passed information,  provided by 
Mrs B, to Aviva. It seems from the policys  statement  of fact that Aviva was told by the 
broker that Mr B was the main driver, owner  and registered keeper of the van. Aviva says 
that was incorrect  information - a misrepresentation. 
Its now accepted  by Mrs B that her son is the registered keeper of the vehicle. Ive heard 
Mr B say, in a call with Aviva, that his son owns the van. In the same call he said his son is 
the main driver. Ive also listened to a call between the son and Aviva. He was notifying  it of 
the claim.  He said he uses the van four times  a week.  He says Mr B uses it sometimes or 
the remaining  time. He also said that during the week he uses  it to get to work. 
Ive considered what Mrs B says about Mr B being the main driver. But overall it does seem 
their son was most likely  the main  driver. He was certainly  the registered keeper  and owner 
of the van. So, there  were misrepresentations. 
But for Aviva to take any action, like avoid the policy, there needs to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For that a few things are required. Firstly, Mr B (or someone  on his 
behalf) must have  failed to take reasonable care not to make the misrepresentation.
Mrs B was acting on Mr Bs behalf.  He was with her when the call to the broker took place. I 
think its likely he and Mrs B knew he wasnt the owner and keeper of the vehicle  and that 
their son was to be the main driver. Ive heard Mr B say in a call that the policy  is in his name 
as it works out cheaper for his son. If Mrs B wasnt sure who was the main driver  she should 
have asked Mr B. So, there  was a failure  to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. 
Aviva also needs to show that without the misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered cover  - 
or would have only done so on different terms. And its shown that with the son as the main 
driver the policy would  have cost significantly more. So, there  was a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
Ive heard Mr B say the policy is in his name  as it works out cheaper for his son. So, with that 
in mind Avivas decision that the misrepresentation was made deliberately  is reasonable. 
When a qualifying misrepresentation  is deliberate CIDRA allows insurers to avoid  the policy 
and refuse  any claims. Considering everything I feel Avivas decision to do that is fair and 
reasonable. CIDRA also allows  the insurer to keep  any premiums  paid for the policy - unless 
it would  be unfair to do so. It seems  that premiums  have  been refunded  to Mr B. If they 
havent, I wouldnt consider it unfair for Aviva to retain them.  
So, Im not going  to interfere with Avivas decision to avoid the policy and refuse  the claim.
Ref: DRN23506233my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont require  Aviva Insurance Limited  to do anything  
differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2350623