K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2004. Mrs A says Bank  of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Halifax had to make  it clear to Mrs A that she had a choice  about  it.
Mrs A says she was led to believe her mortgage  application wouldnt be successful unless 
she took the PPI. But she hasnt given  us much more detail about what  happened or what  
was said at the sale.
Halifax hasnt been able to send us copies of Mrs As application form for the mortgage, or 
any documents from the sale showing  she chose  to take the PPI. But it has sent us 
examples of the forms it says were in use at the time. And these make it clear that the PPI 
was optional.
Due to the amount of time that has passed  since  the sale,  I dont think  its unreasonable that 
neither Mrs A nor Halifax can give us much more detail about what  happened.  But, where  
the evidence available  is incomplete or inconclusive, I must  make a decision on what  I think 
is likely  to have happened, based on the evidence I do have. And, based on the evidence  I 
have, I think its likely  that Halifax did make  it clear to Mrs A that she had a choice about the 
PPI. And that she chose  to take it, knowing  she didnt have to.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mrs A, so it had to check  that it was right for her. 
And, based on what Ive seen of Mrs As circumstances at the time,  I think  that it was. For 
example, she doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover.
Mrs A has said she wouldve received sick pay from her employer for a significant amount of 
time if shed  been  unable  to work  due to illness. And that she had significant savings 
available she couldve used to make her repayments. But the policy couldve paid out for 
considerably longer  than shes told us she wouldve received full sick pay. And it wouldve  
meant she didnt need  to rely on her savings  to make her repayments if she wasnt earning. 
So I still think the policy was right for her.
As well as checking it was right for her, Halifax had to give Mrs A clear  information about the 
PPI. Its possible the information  it gave her wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been. But a 
mortgage is a serious  financial  commitment, and Mrs A property couldve been at risk if 
shed failed to make her repayments. So I think she couldve found the protection  the policy  
offered appealing. And, for the same  reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like the PPI 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs A off taking it out. 
Ref: DRN21139362This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs A paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs A back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mrs A.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2113936