K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains, through her daughter, that British Gas Insurance  Limited is responsible  for 
poor service in connection with her home emergency insurance policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include its 
associated plumbing  and drainage company, engineers and others  insofar as I hold that 
insurance company  responsible for their actions.
Late on 12 August 2018 Mrs M contacted  British  Gas for help with a water leak that was 
damaging her ceiling.  British Gas said it couldnt  attend until the morning and it advised her 
to turn off the water supply. She contacted a third party plumber who isolated and emptied 
the cold water tank.
British Gas attended and thought there may have been a leak from that tank,  so it ordered a 
new one. British Gas fitted the new tank on about  20 August 2018. Mrs M got the ceiling 
repaired.
Mrs M contacted British Gas again on 13 September 2018 because there was a second area 
of water damage to the ceiling. An engineer attended and repaired a compression tee in the 
loft.
Mrs Ms daughter quoted  that engineer as saying that the leak was hidden by insulation  and 
had gone undetected in August  so in September the ceiling collapsed nearer to the source 
of the leak.
She complained that British Gas shouldve  found  and stopped the leak in August 2018.
In a telephone call on 27 September 2018, a British Gas (plumbing and drainage  company) 
call-handler made a goodwill offer that it would repair the second area of ceiling damage  
the cost of which he estimated as £300-£400. But Mrs Ms daughter and her husband 
rejected that offer.
In a final response letter on 31 October  2018 British Gas said it was sending Mrs M a 
cheque for £100.00.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought that British  
Gas could have  handled things better and made the gesture of goodwill in its official  final 
response. He recommended  that British Gas should pay Mrs M £350.00. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs M 
and to British  Gas on 22 January 2020.  I summarise  my findings:
The policy exclusion  says that British Gas isnt responsible for damage caused  by the 
leak from the compression  tee. 
Ref: DRN24276832And Mrs M hadnt shown  that in August 2018  British Gas should  reasonably  have 
found the leak from the compression  tee.
Subject to any further information from Mrs M or from British Gas, my provisional decision 
was that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct  British Gas 
Insurance Limited to do anything more in response  to this complaint.
Mrs M hasnt  responded to the provisional  decision.
British Gas says it has nothing to add.
Therefore I see no reason  to change my view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M had British Gas cover for her central  heating, plumbing and drainage and home 
electrics. 
British Gas has made reference to its policy terms. There is the following exclusion:
Any other loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage  to, or cleaning of property, furniture  
or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking  or failing unless we 
caused it. For example  damage caused by water leaks.
From what  British Gas has said about  mould, I find it likely that the compression tee had 
been leaking  for some time before the two British Gas visits in August 2018.  It didnt  find that 
leak. But I cant say that British Gas caused  that leak. So the policy exclusion says that 
British Gas isnt responsible for damage caused  by that leak.  
British Gas saw the area of celling damage in August  2018  and suspected  that the tank had 
been leaking. Mrs M hasnt shown that British Gas was wrong  about  that. Indeed her 
complaint form indicates that after the replacement of the tank, the first area of celling dried 
out before  it was re-plastered. And the invoice  for that plastering is dated 12 September 
2018. So I find it likely that British Gas had fixed a leak from the old tank.
Mrs M hasnt  shown  that in August 2018  British Gas should reasonably  have found the leak 
from the compression tee some distance from the tank. 
I've listened  to the telephone call with the British  Gas (plumbing and drainage company) call-
handler on 27 September 2018. He offered a repair of the second  area of ceiling damage  
the cost of which he estimated as £300-£400. But Mrs Ms daughter and her husband 
rejected that offer. The call made  clear  that the offer wasnt  an acceptance of responsibility.  
Ive found that the policy exclusion says that British  Gas isnt responsible  for damage caused 
by the leak from the compression  tee. And Mrs M hasnt shown that in August 2018 British  
Gas should reasonably have found  the leak from the compression tee. Therefore I dont find 
it fair and reasonable to direct  British Gas to pay any further amount to Mrs M.
Ref: DRN24276833my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2427683