K821x#15Complaint
The trustees of a trust complain about  the way National  Westminster  Bank  Plc handled  their
request to add two new trustees to the mandate of the trusts bank account.
Background
The trust account with NatWest was opened in 2015.  At that time there  were  two trustees, 
Miss C and her brother. Both were signatories to the account.  
In late 2017 the brother  unfortunately  passed away. Following this, two new trustees  were  
appointed including Mr R. A new mandate was submitted to NatWest  in April 2018 to add the 
trustees as signatories to the trust. 
NatWest did not change the mandate  as requested. The first time the trustees came to know 
of the problem was in September 2018.  At that time the trustees entered into a discussion 
with a financial adviser to invest  £230,000 into an investment fund, with the aim of providing 
income to the beneficiaries.  
An application was made with the financial adviser  to invest  the money. However  the cheque 
presented to the investment company was returned  unpaid as the signatures did not 
correspond with the mandate. That was when the trustees realised that NatWest had not 
actioned the request made in April 2018.   
Miss C says this led to extreme embarrassment. Concerned that the beneficiaries would be 
deprived of the income whilst this matter was being  sorted, Miss C had to step in to use her 
own money to complete  the investment for the trust. Essentially, she had to lend £230,000 to 
the trust so that the investment could  proceed, and the beneficiaries  paid income as intended.
Miss C says that following this, she made several  attempts to resolve  the problem. It was 
during this period it came to light that NatWest had not processed  the mandate request 
because it did not want to include Mr R as a signatory to the account. But that was never 
communicated to the trustees. 
Once this information came  to light, Mr R complained to us that NatWest  was unwilling to 
provide him the reasons for its refusal. NatWest then told us that its refusal to include Mr R 
as a signatory  was due to his prior relationship with the bank regarding another account.  
Due to what happened  in the past,  NatWest decided that it could not enter  into another  
banking relationship with him. Mr R said that NatWest had acted unfairly  in refusing to 
include him as a signatory. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Rs complaint. He was of the view that NatWest was 
entitled to decide who it does business  with and he concluded that we would be unable to 
compel NatWest to add Mr R as a signatory  to the trust account. In relation to other matters, 
the investigator acknowledged  that there were some customer service issues.  He noted that 
NatWest has apologised for it and had paid £150 by way of compensation. He was of the 
view that this was a fair amount.
Ref: DRN29309682Mr R did not agree to the investigators  opinion.  He said that he personally had a very 
difficult time many years ago that resulted in the write-off  by the bank of a small outstanding 
debt he had with it. But it is unfair  that even after so many years,  NatWest  use that as a 
reason not to enter into a business relationship with him now, despite his successful 
professional career  since. The other  trustees  too felt that NatWests  decision was harsh. 
Miss C said that this whole matter  had caused considerable distress and inconvenience, as 
well as a personal  loss to her.  She said that because in September  2018 she had to step in 
and lend her own funds, that deprived  her from making the investment that she was planning 
to make otherwise.  She says that resulted in a loss of about £2,000 to her. 
Miss C further said that following NatWests  decision,  the trustees decided to submit a new 
mandate to only include  the other  trustee  as the second signatory. She says that the new 
request was made in November 2018  during  a branch visit by Miss C. The bank then wrote 
to the trustees  asking  them  to complete yet another form to remove  the deceased trustee as 
a signatory - including asking the deceased to sign the form. 
Not only Miss C found this to be distressful and insensitive, she says it also caused  more 
inconvenience to the trustees having  asked to complete another form which could have  been  
dealt with during  her branch visit. She says this process took a long time and was eventually  
resolved in April 2019,  a year after the initial request was made. Only then the trust was able 
to return the sum lent by Miss C to the trust.   Even  after all this, Miss C says that in 
September 2020 NatWest sent a copy of the account fees addressed  to her late brother.   
I issued a provisional decision partially  upholding  the complaint. I said:  
In relation to Mr Rs complaint, I agree with the investigators conclusion,  essentially for 
the same reasons.  I understand why Mr R feels NatWests refusal is unfair  and I 
appreciate his strength of feeling in this matter. But ultimately,  as stated by the 
investigator, we cannot compel  NatWest  to enter into a commercial relationship.
As regards the personal financial loss of £2,000  caused to Miss C, unfortunately we 
cannot consider it here, under this trust complaint, brought  in relation to trust matters.
It is clear that this matter has caused significant inconvenience  to trustees, especially 
Miss C. The trust funds could not be invested  as intended and I can see that it was very 
embarrassing to the trustees when the cheque was returned unpaid. Further  Miss C had 
to spend a considerable amount of time sorting out this matter.  NatWest has 
acknowledged that it failed to communicate effectively  with Miss C and had apologised 
for the insensitivity  shown in writing to the deceased trustee. But I can see even after 
that, in September 2020, it sent a copy of the account fees addressed to him. Taking  all 
of this into account, NatWest should  pay Miss C £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter had caused.  
The parties didnt  respond to my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN29309683my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that the complaint should be partially  upheld   in that I 
do not uphold  Mr Rs complaint about  NatWest not agreeing to include him as a signatory to 
the trust account.  However, I agree that NatWest caused avoidable distress and 
inconvenience to Miss C and so it should compensate her for it.
my final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay Miss C a total of £500  in 
full and final settlement  of this complaint.
As I understand it, NatWest has already paid £150. So it should pay another  £350 to Miss C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the trustees of 
Keith Summerside Will Trust No.2 to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2930968