K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that Marks & Spencer  Financial  Services Plc (M&S) have debited his credit  
card account  when they shouldnt have done.
Background
Mr Ws statements  show that a car hire company charged him £59.40 on 2 July 2017, and 
£1,307.64 on 23 January  2018. 
The notes from M&S  show that during the initial conversations  Mr W has said he doesnt 
recognise the £59.40, but isnt concerned  about  that, and wanted to dispute the £1,307.64 
transaction. Mr W says this last transaction  was taken after a hold had been placed  on his 
account for seven months by the car hire company.
In April 2018 Mr W spoke to M&S and said he doesnt accept they were  entitled, under the 
card scheme rules, to debit him seven  months  after a hold was put in place  and because 
the car hire company  hadnt written to him to tell him they were going  to do this. He also said 
hed paid off his balance, and wanted his account  closed.  M&S said because  the amount  of 
£1,307.64 was still in dispute, they wouldnt close the account  as it could still be re-debited. 
Mr W was unhappy with this and raised a complaint.
M&S replied to the complaint.  They  said when  you give your card to a car rental  company  
you also give additional authorisation  for them to debit the card with additional charges. They  
said their disputes team  are investigating the transaction itself and have applied  a temporary 
credit to the account.  After this, Mr W referred  the matter to our service.
In August  2018  Mr W let us know M&S  had been  in touch to say his account was closed.  
And after speaking  to M&S they told us they raised  the dispute, the car hire company 
responded, Mr W went back to M&S  with further arguments  and the car hire company 
didnt respond  after this. Because of this, it meant  the credit to the account for the disputed  
transaction was permanent  and Mr Ws account was then closed.
Our investigator explained this to Mr W, but having done so Mr W repeated his concerns 
about the scheme rules, and that M&S  debited  his account after the time in which  they were 
allowed to.
Having investigated  the complaint, our investigator wrote out to Mr W to explain he didnt 
uphold the complaint. He said by Mr W signing  an agreement with the car hire company he 
gave them authority to take further  payments in the future for any additional costs. He 
explained the amount of £1,307.64 was a separate transaction to the £59.40.  He added that 
he couldnt see anything  in the card scheme rules  about the length of time a hold is placed  
on an account. And that the Payment Service Regulations 2017 meant M&S had to debit 
Mr Ws credit card,  when the car hire company presented the payment.
Mr W didnt accept this. He wanted to understand more about how long companies  can 
place a hold on a credit  card  and felt compensation  was appropriate  because  they didnt 
answer his questions, and the matter  went on for a long time. Because  of this the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN29332052My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hold on the credit card
Mr W has raised concerns that there was a hold on his credit  card for seven months. A 
hold is when a retailer sets aside a proportion of the available  credit on the account  for a 
purchase. Typically,  the payment will then debit  the account in a few days, but this time can 
vary.
Mr Ws credit card account was debited for two separate transactions. Based on the 
information Ive seen these were done at different times  one in July 2017 that he didnt 
dispute, and another in January 2018  that he did.
Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr Ws credit  card had his available  balance reduced by 
£1,307.64 for seven  months. So, I dont think a hold was placed  on his account  rather  it 
seems more likely  to me that the car hire company just took a considerable period of time to 
actually debit the account.
Should M&S  have  allowed the payment to debit Mr Ws account  and the length of time 
taken
Mr Ws complaint  here is that under the card scheme rules M&S shouldnt  have  been  
allowed to debit his card. Mr W says because of the time that passed  from renting the car, to 
when the payment was made,  the car hire company should have written  to him first. I dont 
think M&S initially should have blocked  the payment for this reason  after all they wont  
know whether the car hire company has written to Mr W or not. 
During their investigations M&S got a copy of Mr Ws car rental agreement. And the rental 
company have said the reason they charged  Mr W was because of damage to their car. Its 
common practice for car rental  companies  to do this  so overall Im satisfied Mr W did give 
the car rental  company  pre-authorisation to do this.
Mr W has also said the card scheme  rules mean M&S should have blocked this payment. 
Hes not been  specific here. And having  looked  at the relevant rules in the Payment Services  
Regulations 2017 these say M&S have to process  the payment in Mr Ws circumstances. 
So, Im satisfied M&S acted fairly in any case.
But if there is a charge  on an account that a customer  doesnt agree with, then Id expect  
M&S to investigate the dispute once its raised  with them.
Looking at the information I have,  I can see they asked Mr W to provide further information, 
and when he did they raised  the dispute.  From  what I can see they actively  progressed the 
issue upon hearing from Mr W. And although  they didnt respond  to all of Mr Ws questions 
in the way hed have  wanted, I do think they responded appropriately to him and did what  
they were required  to do when he raised the claim. So, I dont  think  any compensation is 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN29332053My final decision
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2933205