K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr M took out the policy with a loan in 2002  which was secured against  his home. He paid a 
monthly amount  for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Mr M and Halifax  agree  that the policy was sold during a meeting. During that meeting, 
Halifax shouldve taken  reasonable steps  to make  Mr M aware  he had a choice about buying  
the policy. Mr M says he wasnt aware of the policy. 
I dont know what was said about the PPI in any discussions Mr M had with Halifax. But 
Halifax has sent us a copy of Mr Ms loan agreement. On the agreement  there is a section 
about the PPI. Here  it asks if applicants want Personal Loan Repayments  Insurance (which 
was Halifaxs name  for PPI)  and there  is an option  to select yes or no. Yes has been 
selected on Mr Ms form and hes signed it. If Mr M didnt want the policy, he couldve  
selected the no box. 
So, I think its most likely Halifax made Mr M aware he had a choice  about  buying the policy. 
And he chose to take it. 
Mr M says Halifax didnt  recommend the policy to him. Halifax  says it did recommend the 
policy. I dont think it matters whether Halifax recommended the policy or not because I think 
it was right for Mr M  based on his circumstances.  I say this because:
Mr M was eligible  for the policy
There was nothing  to stop Mr M claiming the full benefit of the policy if he needed too - 
such as any known  health issues or unusual  employment arrangements.  
Mr M says he wouldve  got six months full sick pay benefits from his employer. The PPI 
wouldve covered  his loan repayments for up to 12 months if he was made redundant.  
And for up to 60 months if he was too unwell to work.  This is more  than he wouldve 
received from his employer and it wouldve  allowed him to use any employer benefits to 
cover other everyday living expenses.  
Ref: DRN23123692It doesnt look like Mr M had any other  means  to make his loan repayments  such  as 
savings  so I think  the policy  couldve been useful to him. 
He was taking on a significant and long term financial commitment,  which  was secured  on 
his home, on his own. So the effects of not keeping up with the repayments couldve been 
serious for him.  And I think having the security  that his repayments couldve been made if 
he was unable  to work  wouldve been  important to Mr M. 
The cost of the policy was shown  on the loan agreement. So I think  Mr M wouldve  
understood how much he would need to pay for it. And I havent seen anything  to 
suggest that Mr M couldnt afford  the monthly  payments.  And he couldve cancelled  the 
PPI at any time, without  further  cost, if his situation changed or he no longer wanted it. 
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mr M, Halifax  shouldve also taken  steps to give 
him clear information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted it. I dont know what 
steps Halifax took to do this and its possible some things werent explained as clearly  as they 
shouldve been.  But I dont think clearer information  wouldve  changed Mr Ms decision. I think 
hed still have bought it. I say this for the same reasons  I think the PPI was suitable  for him.  
Overall, I dont  think Mr M has lost out from anything  Halifax mightve  done  wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2312369