K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mr B says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr B says he didnt understand what he was signing when he applied  for the PPI and 
even if someone had explained it to him, he wouldnt have understood because he didnt 
speak English very well at the time. But he also says he went to the HSBC branch with 
his manager to speak on his behalf and if there was anything he didnt understand, I 
would have expected him to ask for clarification before  going  ahead and signing any 
agreement. So I think its likely HSBC  made  it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the 
PPI and he chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover. Mr Bs said he would only have received his 
statutory entitlements  if he was off sick or made redundant, so I think  he would have 
found it difficult to carry on repaying his credit card, as well as meeting his other 
expenses. Even though he might have  had some savings, if he used these to repay his 
credit card,  he would  have been  left with very limited  funds to pay for anything else. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But as Ive explained, I think  its likely he chose to take it out - so it looks  
like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  HSBC  didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN29358412my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2935841