K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the limits Ageas Insurance  Limited (Ageas) applied to their 
contents insurance claim.
For ease, I will refer to Ageas when talking  about  their agents or representatives, and
Mr and Mrs G when talking about theirs.
background
Mr and Mrs G had home insurance with Ageas, which they purchased  through  a third party.
In 2019 there was a theft at their home address,  and they put in a claim for around  £30,000
worth of unspecified jewellery, as well as some additional specified  items and a high value
pen. Ageas accepted the claim  but applied a policy limit of £10,000  to the unspecified
jewellery. Ageas relied on section 2.8 of the contents policy which  stated the maximum they
would pay following theft of jewellery  or watches from the home was £10,000 unless stolen
from a fixed, locked safe.
Mr and Mrs G complained  to Ageas. They said they werent aware  of this policy term.
They understood that they had a £20,000 limit for such items which  was the amount
highlighted to them in their policy schedule. They said the term Ageas relied upon was
buried in small print in the policy wording booklet,  so Ageas hadnt made this clear.
Ageas didnt uphold their claim. They said Mr and Mrs G were sent the policy  wording
booklet including all terms when  they took out the insurance. Ageas noted that policyholders
are asked to review this booklet and are given  a grace period where they can cancel the
insurance, if the cover does not suit their needs. Ageas disagreed that the term was in small
print.
Mr and Mrs G werent happy, so they brought their complaint to our service. They said this
was an important restriction  that should  have  been  highlighted in a prominent position.  
They said they wouldnt have  taken out this policy  if theyd understood the limitations of their
cover.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint because Ageas provided the relevant terms and
conditions when the policy was taken out. Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. So, the matter has
been passed to me to decide.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach a different decision than the
investigator. So, I shared my provisional findings  with Ageas and Mr and Ms G so they had 
the opportunity  to make any comments or provide  further evidence. My provisional  findings
were:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the policy
Both parties  agree that the limit applied  by Ageas is outlined in section 2.8 of the policy
wording booklet.  And that this booklet was provided to Mr and Mrs G when they took out the
Ref: DRN22930492policy. But Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  is that this wasnt prominent enough and so they
thought they had a higher  level of cover.
Ageas didnt sell Mr and Mrs G the policy. So, I can only look at whether the product
information Ageas provided was clear, when  determining  whether Ageas have acted fairly in
handling this claim.
Having reviewed the policy wording booklet, I cant agree with Mr and Mrs G that the
information is in small  print. This policy term is in the same font size as the others  within the
terms and conditions. But the general point  Mr and Mrs G are making, is that this term
wasnt highlighted anywhere  other  than the policy wording document  it wasnt  included in
the policy schedule,  statement  of insurance  or the insurance product  information document.
And having reviewed  these documents, I agree that this term doesnt  appear anywhere else.
So, Ive then looked more broadly at whether the product information provided by Ageas was
clear, fair and not misleading.
Ageas have highlighted that Mr and Mrs G were  asked to review  the policy wording booklet
when they received it. And this is something consumers should do. But Ive also noted  that
Mr and Mrs Gs policy wording booklet was 55 pages long and contained a lot of information.
Given this, I can understand  why they may have missed this one term in the hundreds listed
within this document.
In line with good industry practice, I would expect  Ageas to highlight  significant limitations,
conditions and exclusions in the policy schedule and/or  product  information document.
This is in keeping with the requirements  in the Insurance Conduct of Business sourcebook
(ICOBS) which regulates insurance sales. And according to ICOBS insurers  are expected to
summarise excluded risks and obligations  within the insurance product information
document.
Mr and Mrs Gs policy schedule states that they have a £20,000  limit for high risk property in
the home. It doesnt  mention this can decrease to £10,000 if the jewellery  and watches arent
stored in a safe. So, I can understand why Mr and Mrs G, having read this, thought they had
£20,000 cover for these  items.
The same section also highlights that this limit can increase to £30,000  if the policyholder
increases their maximum claim limit. This information leaves the impression that any
variations to the level of cover would be listed in the schedule. In the absence of any
reference to a possible decrease, I think its reasonable for the consumer to think  they are 
covered for up to £20,000 with no further  action required  on their part. So, I think  this
schedule could be considered misleading.
Ive also noted  that the statement of insurance  advises that if an item is worth more than
£7,500 it has to be stored in a safe when its not being worn. Given Ageas highlighted this
requirement for individual  high value items,  I dont  think it would be unreasonable  for
Mr and Mrs G to presume that any similar requirements would also be referenced here. 
In including  this, Ageas have clearly decided the requirement for the use of a safe in these
circumstances is significant enough to draw  the consumers attention to it. If you follow  this
logic, it seems  to me Ageas should  have also highlighted that this is a requirement when
items exceed £10,000 in total value.
Ref: DRN22930493More generally, I would expect an insurer to highlight a term that requires a consumer  to do
something specific in order to fully qualify for their cover.  And a safe isnt something that
most people  have in their home. So, I think this should have  been  emphasised.
Particularly given their cover was significantly reduced without it.
Taking all of this into account,  whilst I accept Mr and Mrs G did have the policy  term
available to them, I dont  think  this was made sufficiently clear. In my opinion this was a
significant term, applying  a condition and limitations to their cover.  So, I dont think  Ageas
have acted fairly here.
redress
I then considered what would have happened had this term been  clearly outlined.
Mr and Mrs G told us that they wouldnt have taken out insurance with Ageas. And had they
known they wouldve found a different policy with no safe requirement.
Its not possible to know exactly what other  policies would have been available in 2018.
But Ive seen recent quotes provided by Mr and Mrs G for home  insurance  which  indicates
they could have got this cover for an additional  £31.55 a year. And given they only took out
their policy in 2018, I think the prices can be fairly  compared.
Ive then considered  whether Mr and Mrs G would have paid more for an equivalent policy.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs G knew  they had more unspecified jewellery than the £20,000 they
thought they were insured  for. And this does indicate price  was a factor in the level of cover
they chose. But taking out insurance is often a balance between the level of cover and the
cost of premiums.
Mr and Mrs G were clearly looking to insure their valuables  as they specified certain items
when they took out the policy.  Whilst I think consumers might accept cheaper insurance if
most of their valuables were covered, I think its less likely someone would pay for insurance
that would  only cover around  half. And I think the evidence supports the fact this product
wasnt suited to Mr and Mrs Gs needs. Given the estimated  price  difference  between  the
policies is moderate,  I think  its more likely Mr and Mrs G would have paid the extra  cost.
I say this having reviewed  the sales call for this policy. During this call Mrs G said she might
raise the amount of overall cover at a cost of £12 a month, if after speaking  with her husband
they thought £75,000  wasnt  enough.  Whilst I appreciate Mrs G decided this wasnt
necessary, it does indicate she would have been willing  to pay more  for an appropriate level
of cover.
So, I think the fairest thing  here is for Ageas to settle  their claim in line with the £20,000
valuables limit Mr and Mrs G thought they had, less the extra  £31.55 per year theyd  have
paid for an equivalent policy. I can see this policy was taken out in 2018 and was renewed
once, so I think its fair to deduct two payments of £31.55 from the amount paid.
response to my provisional  findings
Ageas provided  no further comments in relation to my findings. Mr and Mrs G accepted 
them. So, Ive not seen any further  evidence from either party.
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and
Ref: DRN22930494reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im not persuaded to 
change my findings. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I've given,  my decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I understand Ageas Insurance Limited has already  settled Mr and Mrs Gs claim up to a 
nonspecified jewellery/watches limit of £10,000. I direct Ageas Insurance Limited  to:
Reconsider Mr and Mrs Gs claim in line with a higher non-specified 
jewellery/watches limit of £20,000.
Deduct £63.10 from any additional payments made.
Pay simple interest  on any additional  payments made, at the rate of 8% per year 
from the date they made the previous settlement payment, until the date they make 
this payment*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2020.
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman
*If Ageas Insurance Limited considers it should deduct income tax from any 8% interest
element of my award it may do so, but they should give Mr and Mrs G the necessary
certificate.
Ref: DRN2293049