K821x#15complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the way her claim for water  damage to her property was dealt with by 
Allianz Insurance Plc under her home insurance.  She is represented by Mr H, a loss 
assessor.
background
In June 2014 Mrs C had an escape of water from her downstairs WC which  caused 
considerable damage to parts of the ground  floor. Allianz accepted  the claim, and instructed 
contractors to carry out repairs. Mrs C and her daughter (Ms C) who both have health 
situations, and her son (Mr C), stayed in the property during the repairs  and were  paid a 
disturbance allowance on a weekly basis because they couldn't  use their kitchen. Allianz 
recognises that the family are vulnerable.  Unfortunately  the repairs  didnt proceed well, and 
also in the course  of the works, the contractors  damaged the back  garden. A second firm of 
contractors also carried out defective work. Allianz admitted that the service  Mrs C had 
received was very poor.  In recognition  of this it agreed to pay her £2,500 compensation in 
February 2015.
Following that Allianz instructed a firm of loss adjusters to manage the claim. But there were 
problems with the further contractors brought in. Those contractors said they werent able to 
complete the work because of constant difficulties caused by Mr C in obstructing  the work 
and the contractors. H on behalf  of Mrs C firmly denies this  it says the work was defective 
and badly managed by the loss adjusters.
Mrs C appointed a firm of loss assessors to help with drawing up the schedule of works 
needed to complete the repairs. That firm instructed a surveyor (B) to draw up a schedule of 
works, which was amended several  times. But that firm opted  not to continue to work on the 
claim. Allianz agreed that Mrs C could appoint Mr H, and it would pay his fees, and the fees 
of a further surveyor (N) instructed by Mr H to draw up a further schedule. N then invited 
tenders for the job, and presented the lower tender as the amount Mrs C required to settle 
the matter.
Allianz didnt agree  the proposed settlement. It said it would  work  on the schedule and 
proposed costing drawn up by B. Based  on that schedule Allianz assessed the work it 
decided was necessary to complete  the repairs. It agreed to pay Ns fees for drawing  up the 
schedule and Mr Hs fees. It considered  that the works were considerably overstated.  It 
offered £71,600,  including fees for project managing and £4,000 for contents either 
damaged as a result  of the original  claim,  or by the contractors. 
The difference between the parties costings amounts to over £75,700.  Allianz has paid the 
amount it considered reasonable  to settle the claim, in January 2017. Allianz wont  increase 
the amount.
Ref: DRN25252062Mrs C also complained that when she made a subject access  request to Allianz, this 
disclosed an insulting email written about  Mr C. This wasnt  disclosed at first, and she 
believes that Allianz hasnt made a full disclosure. Because  of the comments made about 
Mr C, Mr H believes this is indicative of Allianzs approach  to the whole claim,  and its 
attempts to bully Mrs C and her family.
On referral to this service,  our investigator  didnt  uphold  the complaint. He said that as 
Allianzs offer was based on a specification  prepared  for Mrs C, it was reasonable. He also 
believed that Mr Cs conduct towards contractors had caused the claim  to be delayed.  
I issued a provisional decision. I essentially agreed with the investigators conclusions  but 
addressed some further points concerning contents.
Allianz responded that in respect of the contents claim its offer of £4,000  was discussed with 
Mr H and separate to the building repair claim. It said it has never been presented with 
estimates for these  items and so made  what it felt was a fair offer to cover the cost. It said it 
has never been advised that Mrs C disputed the amount offered in respect  of the contents 
claim.
Mr H and Ms C have  provided detailed responses to the provisional decision,  maintaining  
that Mrs C is entitled to the full amount sought  over and above that which  has already been 
paid. I shall summarise their comments in my findings below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
I should  say first of all that our function is to provide an informal  dispute resolution service to 
resolve disputes between parties. To that end I wont go into a point by point analysis of the 
parties expert evidence.  I can assess the overall  evidence, and decide taking into account  
all the circumstances,  which I consider to be more persuasive.
Its worth  repeating that, in light of the very detailed  response from Ms C. Ultimately  I have  to 
decide this matter by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.  So I have  read Ms Cs comments and documents, but her points  
are too numerous  to summarise. They essentially address Mrs C's own and her familys 
credibility and the way they perceive they were  treated by Allianz. 
In my provisional decision I further said:
The first thing to note,  contrary to the assumption initially  made  by N, is that Allianz based 
its offer on the scope  of works drawn up by B on behalf of the first firm of loss assessors 
Mrs C instructed. That scope allows for considerably more  expenditure than that drawn up 
by Allianzs surveyor. I think it was reasonable of Allianz to take that as its starting  point. And 
I think it puts Mr H in a difficult position  in criticising  a scope drawn up for Mrs C.
Both old and new scopes were drawn  up by firms of chartered surveyors.  The first scope  
was revised several  times, but ultimately  I think it was rejected because  Mr C didnt accept it 
was a reasonable settlement. This led directly to the first firm of loss assessors deciding it 
Ref: DRN25252063could no longer act. It said There is a disparity between the client's expectation  and what  
we and the client's appointed surveyor, [B], feel is a reasonable specification  of works, and 
there is disagreement on the proposed  approach to the cessation of the daily allowance  and 
the temporary re-commissioning of the kitchen to allow  self-catering  facilities  to be 
reinstated.
N justifies his scope  being so much higher because he got tenders  for the job, and inspected 
the premises rather than as the first surveyor did, carried out a desktop analysis. But its also 
clear that Ns scope provides for considerably  more  work to be done,  so the tenders would 
be higher.
I havent seen  anything in Mr Hs or Ms Cs responses that have  changed my view on this. I 
think that Allianz acted  fairly and reasonably in basing its assessment of the costs  of 
completing the work on those drawn  up by their first surveyor instructed on behalf  of Mrs C.
ground floor slab
In my provisional decision I said:
When carrying  out repairs a small part of the damp  proof course  (DPC) in the floor was 
compromised. All parties believe that in the living room the DPC needs replacing. N says the 
DPC for the entire ground floor needs  replacing, along with the entire concrete floor slab.  
Allianz didnt accept that the DPC needed replacing throughout the ground floor. 
Nevertheless, in making its offer it noted that B had allowed for a DPC  to cover the entire 
ground floor. So it amended its offer to include a sum for that. It didnt accept that the entire  
ground floor slab needed to be replaced.
Im not persuaded that, due to the DPC  being  compromised  in one room, the entire ground 
floor slab needs replacing.  N has suggested  that Allianzs own surveyor  said this. What he 
actually said was:
Remove all loose and friable materials and make  good to all previous chasing in the floor 
using a mixture  of neat SBR and 1:3 cement:  sand and finish  level with supporting  floor 
level. Leave to dry' for 48 hours. 
That reads to me that the floor where  damaged had to be repaired. It isnt (in my view) 
saying the floor slab needs replacing. Nor is it an indication that Allianz has ignored its own 
surveyor.
Mr H says in response that the loss adjusters had acknowledged that the DPC had to be laid 
over the whole ground floor, so he asks why is Allianz now claiming  that it would be sufficient 
to have DPC cover in just one room? 
The DPC cover is not the issue. Allianz specifically  addressed this by accepting that the 
DPC needed to be applied  to the whole of the ground floor.  It also increased the amount 
allowed for this in the estimate. As for whether the entire ground  floor slab needed replacing 
I dont accept that that was reasonable or necessary.
Ref: DRN25252064garden
In my provisional decision I said:
N says the entire  back  garden needs  complete redoing at a cost of £13,000. Allianz says 
that B allowed £10,100 for the work,  the bulk of which it says has been completed. It has 
shown us photos of before and after to evidence this. It has agreed that snagging works 
costed at £1,500 still need to be carried out and has allowed for this. It has pointed out that 
the new garden is a considerable improvement over the old one. Nevertheless  I accept  it 
had to be done and if Allianz  decided to improve the garden from before, it still needed to be 
done properly.  But, and I shall return to this below,  I dont think  that the contractors brought 
in since Allianz appointed  the loss adjusters have carried  out defective work.  From  reviewing 
this and the photos I think Allianzs  position is reasonable .
Mr H has replied that the garden  is still in a poor state. He has sent in a video taken by Ms C 
showing the re-laid slabs during the pouring rain, and says that grout was applied  at that 
time and has now washed  away. He also says that the slabs were poorly laid, resulting in 
pooling during wet weather. Im not an expert on this and I can't take account of a video 
taken halfway through the work. The loss adjusters sent out a surveyor to consider Ns 
estimate and as a result  Allianz said that £1.500  would be offered in respect of snagging. I 
think that was reasonable, and I have to bear in mind that no work  has been undertaken, at 
least by Allianz or its contractors for two years.  If defects  have  since the complaint to this 
service become apparent I can only suggest  that Mrs C raises those with Allianz. On the 
basis of the evidence put to us at the time the complaint was made I wont be asking Allianz  
to take any further  action.
wooden floor
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr H has allowed for the replacement of parquet flooring in the rear extension.  Allianz has 
commented that no floor is present and it hasnt  been able to say what was there before. 
There are no photos of it, nor have  I seen any description of it by any of the parties who 
attended site and would have seen  it. I cant say that Allianz is wrong here.  So I cant make  it 
pay for replacement wood flooring.
Mr H says Mrs C must be believed and that claims are subject to the concept  of uberrimae 
fidei  (utmost good faith) and that it is upsetting  that Mrs Cs honesty is being  called into 
question. Without going  into what the legal concept  of utmost  good  faith means, I presume 
Mr H is saying that Mrs C had to be believed unless Allianz has evidence  otherwise. That is 
fundamentally not the case. In making  a claim a consumer is expected  to be able factually to 
prove their claim. 
In this case there was talk of laminate flooring but never any suggestion that the flooring 
was wood (which is what  I understand a parquet floor to be). And I dont think that the photo 
is sufficiently clear  for me to tell whether there was a wood floor or not. Again I have to rely 
on the people  who saw the floor (or not as the case may be). Mrs Cs original surveyor didnt 
quote for a wooden  floor. Its unfortunately  not a case of believing Mrs C or not, but of Allianz  
not accepting  part of her claim as it wasnt satisfied there was sufficient evidence of it. As 
would be normal in any claim. I havent  changed my view on this
Ref: DRN25252065other issues
In my provisional decision I said:
As Ive said, I dont  intend to go through the scopes of work  line by line apart from the 
issues Ive mentioned above. As the project  managing fees are based on a percentage of 
the contract  price, they will go down  accordingly. Overall, for the building works Im satisfied  
that Allianz has made a fair and reasonable offer.
Mr H has specifically mentioned the lounge ceiling  that he says had to be done and redone 
several times. I cant  comment on any work done  before  the final response letter  of 
February 2015. The issues with the ceiling were mentioned by Mr H in his detailed letter of 
complaint to this service  in July 2017. I took that into account previously and looking at all 
the evidence again I dont  think that his assertion that the celling had to be redone because  
it was defective  is borne  out. There is reference to the ceiling having to be taken down and 
redone because  Mr C wanted the light fittings  moved, but I havent seen any expert  evidence  
that the celling work,  after February 2015 was defective.
compensation
In my provisional decision I said:
As Ive said Allianz has paid a substantial sum in compensation  up to February 2015, of 
£2,500. We would regard this as being  within our severe category of awards. As Allianz 
issued a final response and Mrs C didnt bring her complaint to us within 6 months of that 
letter, Im not able to look at that. I believe though that it did cover the period when there was 
defective work.
For the work  done since the loss adjusters were  appointed, the reports  I have seen  do 
indicate to me that Mr C caused a lot of difficulty to the contractors. I am told by H that Mr C 
is polite and co-operative  and Im sure he and Mrs C must have been  very frustrated that the 
initial work was carried  out so badly. But the evidence from the loss adjusters  and their 
various contractors was that Mr C was very difficult to deal with, especially as regards 
managing his expectations. Those contractors all felt it impossible for them  to continue 
working at the property.  The loss adjusters assessed the work and advised Allianz to pay for 
the work  carried out by those subsequent contractors. I think they found the work to be 
satisfactory, and I think thats reasonable.
From the point of view of Allianzs handling of the case since February 2015, I dont think  the 
evidence shows that Mrs C or her family were bullied. They were invited to instruct loss 
assessors, for whom  Allianz has paid their fees (including for lodging a complaint with this 
service). Allianz also paid for Ns fees.  The claim has taken some  time to settle but bearing 
in mind all I have said, I dont think Allianz  is responsible for delays. And I note that for the 
most part since February 2015 Mrs C has been  represented.
For the cost of the outstanding work Mr H says ..the bulk of the difference between  what 
has been paid and what we believe is due relates to the building  programme. And try as I 
might, I cannot see that there is anything in [Ns] Scope of Works that is either unnecessary 
or which is not required as a result either  of the escape of water or, botched work by one or 
other of the workmen sent in by Insurers or their appointed Adjusters.
Ref: DRN25252066Mr H went on further to say that Mrs C and her family are genuine and he has never heard 
them claim for anything to which they are not entitled. He believes that the figure put forward 
is the right one to put right all that has gone wrong and reinstate their home to its pre-event 
condition.
The essence  of this case is whether Allianz has been fair and reasonable in taking the 
approach it has. And I take account, as I said in my provisional decision,  of the fact that the 
settlement is based on what  Mrs Cs first loss assessor and their appointed surveyor  found 
to be reasonable.  So we are not talking  here about  Allianzs own figures, where  they might 
be expected to argue in favour of reducing  its pay-out. I think this was a fair and reasonable 
approach, so I maintain my provisional view, that the pay-out for building work was fair.
I dont doubt that Mrs C and her family  are genuine. But the issue of what should be paid is  
a matter of expert evidence. I have taken account of Ms Cs representations  but I do think 
that Allianz has treated Mrs C fairly  in attempting to resolve the claim.  This includes the fact 
that, when their first loss assessor couldnt proceed, it agreed that Mrs C could appoint a 
new one and it would pay all his fees, including those for making the complaint to us.I 
havent changed my view on this
disturbance allowance
In my provisional decision I said:
Allianzs offer allowed  for a disturbance  allowance  paid up until February  2017,  allowing a 
four week  lead in period for works  to commence and four weeks  to carry them out. That has 
been paid by Allianz. I note that Bs scope allowed for temporary kitchen facilities  and I take 
the view that having  been paid the full sum proposed by Allianz, Mrs C could have  used that 
sum to make  the kitchen usable. Im not inclined to increase this.
Ive not seen anything in Mr Hs or Ms Cs comments that persuade  me to change my view 
on this.
contents
In my provisional decision I said:
Allianz has offered and paid £4,000 for the damaged contents. Although it says itself that 
contents havent really  been assessed.  I think to be fair to Mrs C it should properly assess 
the contents, taking  into account  Mrs Cs estimates and reconsider this part of the claim and 
any items damaged  by the contractors.
Allianz says that it has never been  advised  that Mrs C disputed the amount offered in 
respect of the contents claim. I dont think thats  right  Mrs Cs claim for her contents was 
clearly set out by Mr H in his rejection  of Allianzs  offer for the building work and contents,  
and detailed in his complaint to us. By its own admission Allianz hasnt assessed this part of 
the claim amd I think it should do so.
Mr H believes  I should assess the amount  at their figure, of over £12,000. But as Allianz 
hasnt considered this part of the claim yet it would  be unfair and pre-emptive for me to make 
any conclusions. If Mrs C is unhappy  after Allianz  has done this she can make a further 
complaint about  it.
Ref: DRN25252067email and subject  access  request
In my provisional decision I said:
Its clear  that one loss adjuster  involved  in the case on the part of Allianz sent an email 
insulting Mr C, to a colleague. Notwithstanding  that it wasnt intended  be seen by Mr C, I 
recognise that it was distressing to him. Allianz  has appropriately apologised and I wont take 
any further action.  I dont think that it has overall  affected the way Allianz dealt  with the 
claim. As for the suggestion that because  this email was suppressed there might have been 
further such documents not disclosed,  I think thats unlikely but it's not for me to judge  
whether Allianz  complied  with data protection rules.  If Mrs C thinks  that Allianz  hasnt 
complied with her request, she would have to take it up with the Information Commissioner's 
office.
Again Ive not seen anything in Mr Hs or Ms Cs comments that persuade  me to change my 
view on this.
overall
I think overall that Allianzs  offer and payment for further repairs  to the building  was fair and 
reasonable. My provisional decision,  as Ive quoted it above now forms part of this final 
decision. Allianz should reconsider  the contents,  as Ive set out above.
my final decision
I propose to uphold the complaint in part and to require Allianz Insurance Plc to reconsider 
Mrs Cs claim for contents and any items damaged by its contractors.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2525206