K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about suppressed interest and legal fees added to a loan 
originally taken out with Firstplus  Financial Group  Plc. The loan was taken over by another 
business, Elderbridge, in 2016, but this complaint relates to the actions of Firstplus before 
that date. Mr and Mrs H are also unhappy  about  the way Firstplus managed their account. 
To settle  the complaint, they want Elderbridge to accept £412 to settle the loan.
background
In 2006 Mr and Mrs H took out a second charge unregulated secured loan with Firstplus.  
Unfortunately they fell into arrears and the borrowing was restructured in 2008. Since then 
there have  been  multiple payment arrangements put in place, but payments havent been  
maintained during the course of the loan, resulting in legal  fees being  incurred by Firstplus. 
The arrears  were paid off in March  2018.
Elderbridge explained to Mr and Mrs H that they still owed legal fees of £412.75. Mr and 
Mrs H sent a cheque  for this, which Elderbridge  applied to unpaid interest still owing on the 
account. This interest and additional fees amounted to around £23,000.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to Elderbridge. They  say Firstplus never made  them aware that 
interest was being  suppressed and would  be added back onto the account. 
Elderbridge didnt uphold the complaint.  It explained  that, as this was an unregulated loan, 
Firstplus wasnt under any obligation  to send annual statements. 
Dissatisfied with this response, the complaint was brought to us, where an investigator 
looked at it. He didnt think Firstplus had done anything wrong in the way it had administered  
the account. But he thought it wasnt fair that Firstplus hadnt  told Mr and Mrs H that it was 
suppressing interest  when  they got into financial difficulties, or the implications of this. He 
recommended a compensation payment of £200.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. It doesnt appear  from the file that Elderbridge, on behalf of Firstplus,  
has responded. As the matter remains unresolved, it now falls to me to issue  a final decision 
on the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
Ref: DRN28801122fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
As I said above, this complaint relates only to Firstplus, not Elderbridge.
This means  that I wont  be looking at any of Mr and Mrs Hs concerns about the way 
Elderbridge has dealt with the account,  including how much  Mr and Mrs H are being asked 
to pay to close the account,  or Mr and Mrs Hs dissatisfaction at the level of contact from 
Elderbridge. If Mr and Mrs H are unhappy at the way Elderbridge has dealt with them  since 
taking over the account in 2016, theyll need  to raise a complaint about that separately.
I also wont be considering Mr and Mrs Hs dissatisfaction with the response by Firstplus  to 
their Data  Subject Access Request  (DSAR). I see from the contact notes that Mr H had 
referred this to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). And as the investigator 
explained to Mr and Mrs H, the ICO is the most  suitable organisation to deal with Mr and Mrs 
Hs concerns about a DSAR.
Mr H has explained in his correspondence that he raised the issue  of mismanagement  of the 
account and the incorrect application of interest  with the court during the possession 
proceedings. Mr H says that proceedings were withdrawn as a result.  The Financial 
Ombudsman Service doesnt audit accounts, and so I wont be conducting any calculation to 
determine whether  or not interest has been misapplied. Nor can we get involved in any 
matters that have previously been before the court. As Mr H says he raised this with the 
court, if Mr and Mrs H remain dissatisfied,  then they will need to go back  to court  on this 
point.
Ive reviewed the actions  of Firstplus in relation to the suppression of interest on the account. 
Mr and Mrs Hs loan is unregulated, but the business that provided it is regulated. So its 
subject to the regulators high-level  principles  on how to behave towards consumers. Two of 
those principles are relevant here:
principle six, which  requires Firstplus  to pay due regard to Mr and Mrs Hs interests and 
treat them fairly; and
principle seven, which requires  Firstplus to pay regard to Mr and Mrs Hs information 
needs and communicate  in way thats clear,  fair and not mis-leading.
Having considered the circumstances of this complaint Im not persuaded  that the decision 
to suppress interest breached  either  principle. Ultimately it meant  that Mr and Mrs H were  
charged less interest than they would have  been otherwise. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H 
say they werent  aware of the suppressed interest. But Ive not seen  any evidence to 
suggest that they were ever told that they were  no longer required to pay interest on the 
arrears.
Im also not persuaded that, given  that Mr and Mrs H had difficulties maintaining the loan 
repayments over a long period of time, they would have been able to pay more overall than 
they were already paying towards their loan. So Im not persuaded that they have been 
financially disadvantaged by Firstplus not telling them it was suppressing interest  on the 
arrears.
Ref: DRN28801123I do accept that it would have been a shock to Mr and Mrs H to find out that they owed much  
more than they were  expecting. Our investigator  has recommended  that Firstplus  should pay 
them £200  compensation  in recognition  of this upset. And, while I appreciate  that Mr and 
Mrs H probably  dont  feel that this is sufficient,  I find it to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only.  In full and final settlement, I 
direct Firstplus Financial Group  Plc to pay Mrs and Mr H £200  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2880112