K822xcomplaint
Miss B and Mr P are unhappy with their home insurer, (the company now known as) 
Fairmead Insurance Limited. They feel it provided poor service to them  during a fire claim, 
causing extra distress  and inconvenience.
 
background 
Mr P switched the oven  on in October 2018, only to hear a strange noise, he discovered a 
fire had started  in the cavity. He moved  the oven outside before too much damage  could  
occur, but some smoke and soot staining throughout most of the property still took place. 
Fairmead accepted  a claim  and began the reinstatement process. 
Miss B and Mr P became  unhappy for a number of reasons;  communication  and 
organisation was poor, they werent  told their personal items would be inspected, 
photographs of personal items and documents were uploaded to a claim portal,  some  work 
was done poorly,  an appointment was missed and the claim only really progressed due to 
their continued involvement,  including Miss B taking  around ten-days holiday from work. 
Regarding their personal items and photographs,  Miss B and Mr P said they felt violated. 
They said Mr Ps email  had since been hacked and his personal  data had twice  been sold 
on-line. They  felt it was telling  that this only happened after their items were  inspected and 
the photos were  uploaded. Taking everything  into account, including that theyd have to 
replace all of their belongings, they said Fairmead should pay them  £200,000  compensation. 
Fairmead, for its part, accepted that the service it had provided had been below par. It 
explained that the inspection was a normal part of the claim process  but accepted that its 
agent should have explained that process  to Miss B and Mr P. It also provided assurance  
that the portal which the photographs had been uploaded to was secure. But it accepted 
how this, and its general poor level of service, had made Miss B and Mr P feel. It apologised 
and offered £150 compensation. Miss B and Mr P complained  to this service.
Our investigator felt that £150 compensation  wasnt  enough given what had happened.  
Fairmead said it would increase  this offer to £200 and the investigator  felt that was fair. She 
explained to Miss B and Mr P that some level of inconvenience could be expected,  that the 
assessment of their belongings  had been reasonable in terms of the claim,  but the process 
should have been explained to them. She noted there had been some poor work, delays and 
a lack of communication. Overall, she said she felt £200 compensation was in-line with the 
approach this service  takes in such matters.
Miss B and Mr P were unhappy. They emphasised what  had happened  with Mr Ps email 
and personal data following the inspection  and uploading of the photographs. They said 
again how upset  and angry  they were. Their  complaint was passed to me for a decision to 
be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, with regret for the further 
upset I know this will cause Miss B and Mr P, I dont intend to make Fairmead pay any more 
Ref: DRN28486792compensation than the £200 it agreed to during the investigation part of our process. I think  
that sum is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate that this situation has greatly upset Miss B and Mr P. Fairmead  should  have 
handled their claim better and I fully understand why they became frustrated. The 
reinstatement work  should have been  better  organised and appointments shouldnt  have 
been cancelled  without notice. More care should  also have been taken with the work that 
was done, if it had the bathroom wouldnt have needed to be re-painted  or further  work  done 
to the kitchen flooring. 
It is also clear  to me that the situation with their personal belongings being inspected  has 
caused a lot of upset  for Miss B and Mr P. Fairmead and/or its agent should have explained 
the process better to them. I see and accept they expected things to be handled very 
differently and it doesnt surprise me that it was upsetting for them  when they learned the 
items they had packed had been unpacked and checked. But I can assure Miss B and Mr P 
that this type of inspection is a normal part of the claim process, particularly for fire/smoke  
damaged items, but also for any items  an insurer is taking responsibility for by storing.  It 
would be normal for an insurer to ask for any obviously damaged  and contaminated items to 
be set to one side.  But policyholders arent experts in assessing damage, so it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  an insurer  to entirely  rely on their assessment when assessing  the 
extent of its policy liability. It also had to record what items it had received and was taking 
care of  I see a number  of cases where  improper record keeping leads to issues later when 
items are reported as missing. 
I understand why Miss B and Mr P see a link between what happened with their items during 
the claim and what subsequently  happened  with Mr Ps email and data. However, I have  no 
way to know that the two are most likely  linked;  the most appropriate  authority to investigate 
that would  be the police.  But, purely on the basis of the timing of these  incidents,  I cant  
assume the one caused the other. 
Whilst I know how upset Miss B and Mr P are, Im not persuaded that, based  on Fairmeads 
failure to properly manage their expectations  as to what would  happen with their items, I can 
reasonably require it to pay for them to replace all of their belongings.  As I said above,  the 
work Fairmead undertook was a normal  routine part of the claim process. To make  it pay 
compensation for replacing the belongings would equate to a punitive  award  which is not the 
type of award  I can make. When assessing  how much compensation to award, I have  to 
consider what upset they were caused by not having the process properly explained  to them.   
Whilst I note Miss B and Mr P sought legal  advice at one point, I wouldnt usually make an 
insurer provide compensation for such a cost because access to our service is free. There 
are also other free services out there  that will give consumers advice. 
In making any award of compensation  I take into account this services  approach  to such  
awards. Many of the awards we make are modest,  not amounting to more  than a few 
hundred pounds. In making  any award  I keep in mind awards weve  made in other similar 
circumstances. And, as I said, our awards  arent meant to be punitive. Having taken 
everything into consideration  here,  I think £200 compensation is fairly and reasonably due, 
Im not persuaded to make  Fairmead pay more than this.
Ref: DRN28486793my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Fairmead  Insurance Limited to pay Miss B and Mr P 
a total of £200 compensation  (if £150 has already been paid, then it will now only have to 
pay £50).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 September 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2848679