K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited declined  a claim 
under his pet insurance policy.
background
Mr Bs dog was insured  with Red Sands. In May 2018, he asked Red Sands to cancel his 
existing policy and set up a new lifetime policy, with effect from 4 May 2018. 
He later claimed for the cost of treatment when his dog was treated  for vomiting  and 
diarrhoea between August and October  2018.  Red Sands looked  at the clinical notes and 
saw that the dog had similar symptoms to those recorded as having been exhibited  in April 
and May 2018.  Declining the claim,  it explained the policy  excluded  cover for pre-existing 
conditions. And it also added an exclusion, which it backdated, excluding  cover on all claims  
with respect to the digestive system.
Mr B asked Red Sands to reconsider its position but it maintained  the claim would be 
declined. It said the information it had confirmed  the condition being claimed for was first 
noted before  the start of the policy, and that as the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions,  
the claim was being declined.
Mr B wasnt  satisfied and so he complained to this service. He argued the cause of the 
earlier condition was never diagnosed and therefore  he couldnt have declared it. He 
maintained the two episodes were four months  apart  and had different treatment, arguing 
they were unrelated. He said there  were  many things that could  cause a dog to suffer  from 
sickness and it wasnt for him to prove  there was no link. He also said that if there had been 
a diagnosis in April, he wouldnt have cancelled the original policy.
Red Sands  maintained the claim was correctly  declined as the condition  was pre-existing 
and fell under the exclusion that would have  been added to the policy with effect from the 
start date had Mr B declared it when he took out the policy. It explained the dogs clinical  
history confirmed hed suffered from vomiting for two weeks  before the appointment on  
12 April. And if Mr B had told it about the episode  during the sales  call, the digestive system 
exclusion would have  been included in the policy. It accepted there  had been  four months 
between the two episodes, but explained  the policy was clear that where a condition  is pre-
existing, it will be excluded from cover.
 
Our investigator was satisfied Red Sands  decision to exclude the claim was reasonable. He 
noted the dog had been suffering from vomiting and diarrhoea around the time Mr B took out 
the policy, and that the subsequent  claim  related  to vomiting and diarrhoea also. He noted 
the policy excluded  anything with the same clinical signs as illnesses experienced before 
the start of cover and that it also permitted Red Sands to add exclusions  for anything 
experienced within the first 14 days of the policy. 
Mr Bs asked  for his complaint it to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He doesnt accept its 
fair for Red Sands to rely on the fact there  were  similar symptoms to exclude the claim, 
arguing that an average consumer couldnt distinguish between  symptom, condition, and 
diagnosis. He points  out that anything can cause sickness from a head injury to eating 
something and illness  or ongoing chronic  condition. And he also argues  that the exclusion 
applies to pre-existing conditions, not symptoms, and he was, therefore, unable to declare 
any condition when  he renewed the policy. 
Ref: DRN21925192He maintains theres a clear difference between  the two conditions and that no evidence  has 
been presented  to support a link. The dog had recovered from a bout of sickness that they 
believed was related to something he had eaten and there was a four month period between 
the two incidents, which  were  resolved  by different  medication. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator, for broadly the same  reasons.
I accept that, as Mr Bs shown he had a valid claim for treatment that was recommended 
and administered by a vet; its for Red Sands to show the claim is excluded. But, Im 
satisfied that its done  that. Ill explain why.
Reds Sands  argues the claim was related to a pre-existing condition and is therefore 
excluded. Its also argued it fell under an exclusion that would have been added to the policy 
with effect from the start date had Mr B declared it when he took out the policy.
The policy excludes  any pre-existing condition or claim for costs relating to an injury or 
illness that relates to or results from an accident,  injury, illness  or clinical signs your pet had 
before the commencement date and any injury  or illness  that has the same  diagnosis or 
clinical signs  as an accident, injury, illness or clinical signs  your pet had before the 
commencement date.
Pre-existing is defined in the policy as any condition, symptom  or sign of a condition  
occurring or existing in any form and at any time prior to the commencement date; or any 
illness, symptom or sign of an illness occurring or existing in any form during the first 14 
days of the commencement date.
Mr Bs dog was seen by the vet several times  in April 2018. Its right there was no formal 
diagnosis, but the notes  show  hed been  vomiting. He was seen again several times in 
August and September and, again,  vomiting  was recorded as a symptom. Significantly, the 
notes show that on 17 August,  Mr B called the vet to say that some  mornings the dog was 
bringing up clear, slightly yellow tinged  bile which was being treated in April..' The same  
medication was used in April 2018  and September 2018, with the dog eventually being  
diagnosed with food responsive  gastroenteritis (gastritis and vomiting and diarrhoea were  
also noted), with advice  to be feed hypoallergenic food.
Mr B argues  theres no evidence the two episodes are linked and therefore the condition  he 
claimed for cant be described as pre-existing. I accept there were four months between the 
episodes and that there was no formal diagnosis in April/May. But Ive carefully considered  
the wording of the exclusion, including the policy definition of pre-existing  and while its right 
the two episodes didnt have the same diagnosis, they did display the same clinical sign of 
vomiting. Therefore,  while I accept  its possible the two episodes  werent  linked, Im satisfied 
the exclusion was fairly  applied  because  its enough that they displayed  the same clinic sign.
The policy also states that, if the pet first showed  any clinical  signs;  or had an accident, 
injury or an illness; or was diagnosed  with a condition within the first 14 days or prior to the 
commencement date, we reserve the right to apply an exclusion to your policy  in respect of 
this clinical sign, accident, injury, illness or condition.
Ref: DRN21925193Mr Bs suggested he wouldnt have cancelled the original policy if the first episode  had been  
diagnosed. But Ive listened  call recording provided by Red Sands and Im satisfied Mr B 
was told the policy would  only provide cover for new conditions. The call handler also 
explained that if the dog had another condition or a symptom of another condition that hadnt 
already been claimed for, but which happened before he took out the policy  or fourteen days 
after the policy has started, it wouldnt  be covered. 
Significantly, Mr B was asked if the dog had been taken to the vets other than in relation to 
the two previous claims hed made,  and he said there had only been regular check-ups and 
appointments relating to booster shots, and when asked if there was anything else,  he said 
there wasnt. Mr Bs said he didnt tell Red Sands about the episode of vomiting  because  
there was never a diagnosis and he didnt know what had caused it. But Im satisfied he was 
asked a clear question in response  to which he could reasonably have  been  expected  to 
have told Red Sands that the dog was seen by the vet on12th April 2018, 14th April 2018 
and 16th April 2018.
Im satisfied that had Red Sands known the dog was showing the clinical sign vomiting  
around the time Mr B took out the policy, its likely  it would have excluded all claims with 
respect to the digestive system. And if this had happened,  the current claim would have 
been excluded  from cover.  Further,  based on the fact the dog was seen by the vet for 
vomiting on several occasions before  Mr B took out the policy,  Im satisfied the decision to 
add the exclusion  and backdate it to the start of the policy was fair and reasonable. 
I understand Mr B will be disappointed but Ive carefully considered all of the points hes 
raised and Im satisfied  this claim was fairly declined because it related to a clinical sign the 
dog had before the policy started, and because it fell under an exclusion Red Sands would 
have applied  if it had the correct information  when it offered the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2192519