K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about changes to the benefits  they receive as part of the 
whole of life assurance  policy they have with Vitality  Corporate Services Limited  (Vitality).
Background
Mr and Mrs R took out a joint whole of life assurance policy with Vitality  in 2011. They also 
pay an extra  premium to be Vitality  Plus members, which  means they are entitled to claim 
member benefits and rewards through Vitality if certain  criteria  are met. 
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs R complained about  a number of changes  that had been  made  
to the rewards  and benefits available  to them. They said they hadnt been clearly  informed 
that in order to receive a cashback  benefit,  they needed to undergo a physical health  check 
before the policy renewed in December 2018. As a result theyd missed out on the cashback 
this year.  They also said theyd intended to make use of a smart watch  offer,  but this had 
been restricted to one policyholder at short notice. Mr and Mrs R said they wouldve 
reconsidered continuing with Vitality Plus if these changes had been clearly communicated 
at the time.
Vitality said that the changes to the rewards and benefits had been  communicated by email  
on 1 November 2018, which included a link to its website for further information. It also said 
the changes to the health screening  had been communicated  in a letter sent in October  2016  
and in the policy anniversary statement made  available to view in Mr and Mrs Rs member 
zone on 29 September  2018. It said it had sent Mr R an email in accordance  with their 
contact preferences to inform him the statement was available  to view.  As Mr and Mrs R 
didnt undergo the health check in time, they werent eligible to receive the cashback benefit.
Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy and referred  the complaint  to our service. They said the 
changes werent  communicated clearly and Mrs R said she shouldve  also been  personally 
notified of the anniversary  statement being  available to view.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought the changes had been 
communicated clearly  to Mr and Mrs R and the terms of the Vitality Plus membership  
allowed Vitality to change  the rewards and benefits  available to them. The investigator  
thought it was reasonable for Vitality to only notify Mr R that the anniversary statement was 
available.
Mr and Mrs R asked for a final decision on the matter. They  said the website  link provided in 
the email of 1 November  2018 didnt include the change to the smart watch  benefit only 
being available to one policyholder. They also maintained the communication about  the 
cashback changes  wasnt clear.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Under the terms of Mr and Mrs Rs Vitality Plus benefit, Vitality will provide details of rewards  
in advance and will provide six weeks notice before any change takes place.
Ref: DRN22739642Mr and Mrs R say the requirement to undergo a physical health check  prior to their policy 
renewing on 1 December 2018  wasnt made clear to them.
On 17 October 2016, Mr and Mrs R were sent a letter explaining that from 
10 December 2017, they would each  need  to undergo  a health check  or health screening. 
As this change came into force after their policy  renewed on 1 December 2017, the change 
didnt impact them at the time. However, they would need to undergo this screening before 
their policy renewed the following year on 1 December 2018. Its clear  to me that more than 
six weeks notice of this change was given.
This was highlighted again to Mr and Mrs R in their anniversary statement which was 
uploaded to their member  zone on 29 September 2018. An email  was sent to the email 
address that Mr and Mrs R said information  relating  to the policy  should  be sent to when the 
policy was set up. This appears to be Mr Rs email address   unfortunately he didnt read 
this and open up the statement until January 2019,  by which time it was too late to undergo  
the health screening. I dont think it was unreasonable  to send the notification  to this email 
address only as this was the nominated address for contact about the policy.
I appreciate that neither letter specified that the health check or screening was a physical 
check. But it doesnt appear that Mr and Mrs R attempted to undergo any form of health 
check before  the policy renewed in December 2018.  Had they logged into the member zone 
via Vitalitys website, they wouldve seen they couldnt have completed an online health 
check; instead a physical  health check was required. So, overall, I think  Vitality  provided 
enough information for them to understand what was required in order to be eligible for the 
cashback reward.
Regarding the smart watch offer, I wouldnt expect every detail of every offer to be 
communicated by email.  But I would expect further details of the offer to be made  available  
to customers. Vitality says that the link to its website  provided by email  on 1 November 2018  
explained that only one policyholder could take advantage of the smart watch benefit at any 
one time.  However,  Mrs R asserts that this change wasnt made until some  time in 
January 2019  as shed opened  the link at the time and this detail wasnt mentioned.
I cant know for certain how the offer was described  on 1 November 2018. And I think  its 
possible the change  to the number  of watches available couldve happened in January 2019. 
I appreciate that this wouldve  been frustrating to Mr and Mrs R. But in determining  whether 
Vitality should do something  to put things right, I have to think  about the impact of this 
change.
Mr and Mrs R say they wouldve reconsidered renewing their Vitality Plus benefit,  which  they 
were paying  around  £11.50 per month for, if theyd known about  the change  to the smart 
watch benefit. But this benefit was only one of several, including  the cashback reward and 
free cinema tickets, which  Mr and Mrs R could  benefit from as a result of Vitality Plus 
membership.
Mr and Mrs R have said if theyd known they needed to undergo a physical health check to 
receive the cashback they would have.  It also seems theyve used the cinema  tickets  offer in 
the past. This suggests to me that they wouldve most likely retained  their Vitality Plus 
benefit as they still wouldve used the other  benefits available  to them.  So, despite their 
obvious disappointment that they couldnt each get a new smart watch,  I dont think they 
wouldve chosen to cancel their Vitality  Plus membership if theyd been  clearly notified of this 
Ref: DRN22739643change in advance  of the policy renewal. For this reason  Im not asking Vitality to do 
anything to put things right, as theyd  most  likely be in the same position  theyre  in now.
Id like to remind Mr and Mrs R that their policy is due for renewal on 1 December 2019. So if 
they no longer  wish to be Vitality Plus members they can remove this benefit  at renewal.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 October  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2273964