K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Yorkshire  Building Society mis-sold them  payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
In 2000 Mr and Mrs S took out joint PPI when  they applied for a mortgage. The policy  
covered their monthly  mortgage  repayments  in the event of unexpected unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagree. They 
say that they felt pressured into taking out the policy alongside their mortgage, even though 
they didn't feel it was something they required.  
Theyve asked for an ombudsman to review whats happened,  so this complaint comes  to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain my reasons.
I dont know what mightve  been discussed when Mr and Mrs S applied  for their mortgage.  
But Mr and Mrs S had to say if they required  PPI. So I think they wouldve been  aware  at the 
time that it wasnt a compulsory part of having their mortgage. Theres  nothing I can see 
anywhere on the mortgage paperwork  that wouldve suggested otherwise. 
And they appear  to have wanted the cover. I say this because  in addition to their mortgage 
application, Mr and Mrs S also completed a separate  form to have PPI as well. They  filled in 
details of their mortgage and the amount of benefit they each required. They also selected 
the cover  they wanted from a range of possible options. They chose the excess  period and 
signed a declaration confirming I/we wish to apply  for Mortgage Payment Insurance  . 
And Mr and Mrs S also signed to authorise  deduction of the insurance  premiums.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs S said they felt pressured into taking out PPI. But 
I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me to safely conclude  that was the case,  just 
based on what they say. 
Based on all the information I've seen,  I find on balance  that Yorkshire Building Society 
made Mr and Mrs S aware  that the PPI was optional and they chose to have it.
Yorkshire Building Society says it didnt advise Mr and Mrs S to have the policy  they chose 
the cover  based  on the information they were given about the policy. Mr and Mrs S say PPI 
was recommended to them. But it makes no difference to the outcome whether Yorkshire 
Building Society advised Mr and Mrs S to have PPI because  I think that PPI was suitable  in 
Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances. 
Ref: DRN22061182They opted  just for unemployment cover. The mortgage  was taken out when  they were both 
working. Apart from their income from work, Mr and Mrs S said they didnt have any other  
means they could  depend  on to pay their mortgage monthly repayments. I think  its likely that 
theyd have found it difficult to keep up their mortgage monthly repayments in the long term if 
either (or both) of them lost their job. After the excess period they selected, the policy  
wouldve paid the benefit amount theyd said they wanted. Having the policy in place 
wouldve given them peace of mind that their home was protected.  
I dont know how much information Mr and Mrs S were given about the policy.  But, based on 
the information they gave  Yorkshire Building  Society  when they applied for unemployment  
cover, it doesnt look as if Mr and Mrs S were affected by any of the usual  limitations or 
exclusions. So I dont think having  more information about things that didnt affect  them 
wouldve made any difference  to their decision to take out PPI.
Mr and Mrs S were  both eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions that applied. Cover was available for joint mortgage  borrowers  and the way 
that the policy benefits were shared reflected Mr and Mrs Ss wishes.
Looking at their circumstances at the time,  as they were both earning and contributing  to the 
mortgage, the benefit split looks reasonable to me. 
The policy was free for the first six months   and they couldve cancelled  it when they had to 
start paying for the policy  if they hadnt wanted to keep it running.  
When Mrs Ss circumstances later changed,  and she was no longer working  and eligible for 
the cover, the policy was amended so that from then on it covered Mr S only. 
Looked at overall, its possible that there mightve  been some failings in the way this policy 
was sold. But I think Mr and Mrs S still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if theyd been 
better informed as it gave  them useful protection.  I dont  think  that having better information 
about the policy would've put them off taking it out. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2206118