K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the level of contact  from Retail Money  Market  Ltd (trading  as 
Ratesetter) regarding the arrears on his account.
background
Mr C took out a loan using  Ratesetter as a credit broker.
In 2017 Mr C experienced health  issues. In October 2017 a third party money  advice 
organisation wrote to Ratesetter  on behalf  of Mr C with a full and final offer of settlement. 
Ratesetter replied by email and said it wasnt able to accept a reduced settlement offer. It 
confirmed the outstanding  balance.
In November 2017 the third party sent another copy of its initial letter.  Ratesetter responded 
in the same way.
In January 2018 Mr Cs monthly payment wasnt made. Ratesetter tried to contact him by 
telephone, email and text. Having received no response,  Ratesetter sent a further email, text 
and letter approximately  2 weeks  later.
In February 2018  Mr Cs monthly  payment wasnt  made. Ratesetter tried to contact Mr C by 
telephone, email and text. It also sent an arrears letter.
Mr C contacted Ratesetter by email in early  February 2018.  He told Ratesetter about his 
health condition.  Ratesetter  acknowledged Mr Cs email and in response  to his 
circumstances it froze interest on his loan and placed the account on hold for 30 days  to 
allow for a reduced  payment arrangement to be set up.
Ratesetter subsequently  received a complaint  from the third party.  It included  a letter from 
Mr Cs doctor.  The third party complained that Ratesetter had refused a reasonable offer of 
payment and that the reminders and arrears letter had caused Mr C distress and had a 
detrimental affect on his health.
Ratesetter said it wasnt aware of Mr Cs health condition until early February 2018 and 
therefore it didnt  act unfairly in contacting Mr C prior to this.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Ratesetter acted fairly when it was 
told about the extent of Mr Cs health  condition in February 2018.
Mr C didnt agree. The third party said Ratesetter had continued to pursue Mr C despite  their 
request to correspond directly with them, which had caused Mr C psychological distress.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN27994892The crux of this complaint is whether Ratesetter acted  reasonably  when it contacted Mr C 
about his account in early 2018. It is said that Ratesetter failed to follow guidance set out in 
the consumer  credit guidance and specifically CONC 7.10.1.
Ive looked at the letter sent by the third party to Ratesetter  dated  20 October 2017. The 
letter explains that Mr C is experiencing financial difficulties. In relation to Mr Cs health  
condition, although  this is mentioned, it isnt clear from the letter  whether the health condition  
is a current or historic condition, nor does it explain the extent of the condition and the 
degree to which  it affected  Mr Cs ability to manage his financial  affairs.
Ive considered the wording of CONC 7.10.1 but I cant say that the third partys letter  
amounts to a notification  that Mr C wasnt able to make financial decisions or engage in the 
debt recovery process.  And I dont  think it would be fair to say that Ratesetter ought  
reasonably to have  been  aware from this letter  that Mr C lacked the necessary capacity.
Having reviewed all of the correspondence,  I dont  think Ratesetter was made aware of the 
nature and extent  of Mr Cs health condition until it received the letter  from the third party 
dated 8 February  2018 together with the medical evidence.  From that point onwards, I think 
that Ratesetter  was obliged to treat Mr C as a vulnerable  customer  and respond positively 
and sympathetically. Im satisfied that Ratesetter responded appropriately  by freezing 
interest, placing a hold on the account  and engaging in correspondence with the third party  
to seek to agree a suitable way forward.
Ive also considered CONC 7.3.4 because the third party  says that Ratesetter  refused to 
accept a reasonable offer of payment. The third party is referring  to the full and final 
settlement offer it made on behalf of Mr C which was less than the outstanding balance.  The 
wording of CONC 7.3.4 suggests  that a business  is likely to contravene the guidance  where 
it does not allow for alternative, affordable payment amounts to repay the debt due in full. In 
this case, Mr C hadnt put forward  an offer to pay the debt in full. The sum offered was a part 
settlement.
As to the rest of CONC 7.3.4 Im satisfied that Ratesetter didnt pressurise Mr C to pay the 
debt in one single or very few repayments, or within  an unreasonably short period of time.  As 
Ive already said above, I think  Ratesetter  responded positively and sympathetically when it 
was advised of Mr Cs financial  difficulties.
Taking all of the circumstances into account,  Im unable to uphold  the complaint and I wont  
be asking Ratesetter to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2799489