K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs H are complaining about  National Westminster Bank  Plc (Nat West)  because  
they say they were  mis-sold three protection insurance policies. They  say they were  told the 
policies were compulsory  and dont think they were actually sold for their benefit.
Background
In 1986, Mr and Mrs H have told us they took out a business development loan. At the same 
time, they took out a Business Loan Development Protector Policy  (policy 1). This was set 
up in Mr Hs sole name and provided cover  for a term of 10 years.  It provided life cover that 
would pay out on his death  starting at £15,000 and reducing throughout the term of the loan. 
It also provided sickness and accident  benefits  worth £236 per month.  The monthly cost was 
£10.40, and I understand the policy continued  until it expired in 1996.
In 1997, Mr and Mrs H took out a decreasing term life insurance (policy 2) in joint names. 
This was set to pay an initial sum of £97,000, which would  reduce during the term of 18 
years as their loan was being repaid, if either  of them died. It didnt include any accident, 
sickness or other benefits. The monthly cost was £128.99. I understand this was cancelled  
when it was replaced by policy 3 in 2000.
In 2000, Mr and Mrs H took out another decreasing  term life insurance (policy 3) in joint 
names. It was set to pay an initial sum of £90,000,  which would reduce during the term of 14 
years, if either of them  died. It didnt include any accident, sickness  or other benefits. The 
monthly cost was £111.58, and I understand Mr and Mrs H paid this until around December 
2008, after which the policy was cancelled.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I didnt think this complaint should 
be upheld. An extract is attached and forms part of this decision.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept my provisional decision and raised the following key points:
The land they purchased provided adequate security  for the loan and they didnt 
need an extra policy.
Mr H was a public sector worker and member  of a superannuation scheme, which 
would have provided benefits  for his family on his death.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
Mr and Mrs Hs response to my provisional decision, my conclusions havent  changed.  Im  
upholding it.
As things  have turned out, I understand why Mr and Mrs H still believe the policies were only 
of benefit to Nat West, but I dont necessarily accept  that. I still think it would be difficult to 
conclude the surviving family members wouldnt have benefitted from an additional  lump  
sum being available in the event of one of their deaths. So, the policies were  also of potential  
benefit to Mr and Mrs H, whether or not Mr H was still a member of an occupational  pension  
scheme when that unfortunate  event  occurred. But either way, the key point here is that both 
parties agree it was a condition of the loans that Mr and Mrs H have life cover in place. This 
Ref: DRN22381402was a condition  Nat West was entitled to impose at that time and Im satisfied the policies 
sold were appropriate  for the intended  purpose  of protecting their borrowing.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H remain  dissatisfied  with my decision, but I hope the
the explanation Ive provided at least helps them understand why Ive taken  this view.
My Final  Decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 August 2020.
Jim Biles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN22381403Extract from provisional decision:
My Provisional Findings
Ive not necessarily tried to answer  every point Mr and Mrs H have raised.  Ive instead concentrated  
on the issues I think are central to the outcome of their complaint.
What were the policies?
Mr and Mrs H have likened their policies to PPI cover but its important to understand there are 
significant differences and these are relevant to the outcome of their complaint.  A PPI policy pays out 
a regular  amount in the event that the insured person  is unable to work. The investigator said the 
policies Mr and Mrs H took were decreasing term life insurance policies,  which she referred to as 
DTA policies.  DTA policies are normally set up to pay a lump sum on the death  of the policyholder 
only.
The type of cover provided by these types of policy and the way theyre constructed is different and a 
number of the issues  that have been identified with PPI cover in recent years dont necessarily  also 
apply to the sale of DTA policies.  For example:
Some PPI policies  were  sold to people  who couldnt have claimed on them  because  of their 
employment status. But an individuals  employment  status doesnt affect their ability to claim 
on a DTA policy. 
Also,  many PPI policies were paid for by a single  premium that was added to the 
accompanying loan, which meant the borrower paying interest on the insurance  premium as 
well as the loan. In contrast, DTA policies are normally  paid for by a regular  premium and 
arent subject to interest.
Mr and Mrs H have provided details of their three policies and Ive reviewed this carefully to establish  
exactly what  cover they had. This information shows that policies 2 and 3 were DTA policies that 
provided life cover only and therefore didnt expose  them to the kind of issues Ive outlined above. Im 
fully aware weve upheld a high number, although by no means all, of the complaints  weve seen 
about PPI policies.  But policies 2 and 3 werent  PPI policies, so it doesnt follow that their complaint 
should also be upheld.
Policy 1 was slightly different  because  it did include  some accident and sickness benefits, which 
made it more like a PPI policy. And while it was paid for by a monthly  premium rather  than a lump  
sum, the acceptance terms appear to show this included an element  of interest, although the details 
of this arent clear  from the limited information  available.
What were the policies for?
Mr and Mrs H have told us they took policy 1 to cover a business development loan and the name  of 
the policy  also indicates this was its purpose.
The documentation from 1997 is limited, but the records  Nat West has been able to provide indicate 
Mr and Mrs H took a loan for £97,000  over a term on 18 years  around the same time. There doesnt 
seem to be any dispute that policy 2 was taken to protect this loan.
Theres more  documentation  from 2000, including a fact find and suitability  letter  completed by the 
Nat West representative who sold policy 3. This records the balance  of the above loan had reduced to 
£90,000 and that policy 3 was sold to replace policy 2 for the remaining term because  it provided 
similar cover at a reduced cost.
Ref: DRN22381404Were the policies compulsory?
Our investigator concluded the policies werent compulsory and this doesnt appear to be correct.  In 
its responses to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint dated 30 April 2019, Nat West said it was a condition  of 
loans with the bank (in both 1986 and 1997) that the borrower also have a suitable  life insurance 
policy and that this would have been confirmed  in the loan agreement. It also said that borrowers 
didnt have to take the life cover it offered  and could have arranged cover with another insurer if theyd 
wanted to, but they did have to have  cover.
This information clearly confirms Mr and Mrs Hs view that they were told they had to have life cover  
and Im sorry for any confusion caused by the investigators comments  on this issue.
Were the policies mis-sold?
Ive taken careful account  of what  Mr and Mrs H have said. But without additional evidence to support 
their recollections,  I dont think I can reasonably conclude  they were  told they had to have the 
particular policies that were  sold  as opposed to similar cover  with a different insurer. But as Ive 
said, its clear they were  required to have life cover in place so their loans would  be repaid if either of 
them died beforehand.
Mr and Mrs Hs policies  were sold a long time ago and many of the requirements that have since 
been put in place simply didnt apply at that time. When Mr and Mrs Hs policies were  sold,  it was still 
quite common in the industry  for lenders to require borrowers to have life cover  for their loans.  This 
was clearly a benefit to lenders as it provided them with extra  security. But it was also of potential  
benefit to borrowers as it meant their families wouldnt be left with debts they couldnt pay. At the time 
Mr and Mrs Hs policies  were sold, Nat West was entitled to make life cover  a condition of its lending 
and Mr and Mrs H had the option to apply to borrow money elsewhere if they werent happy with this 
condition.
As far as policies 2 and 3 are concerned, these were straightforward DTA policies that provided life 
cover only. The issues Ive described that set PPI policies  apart from DTA dont  apply here and Im 
satisfied Nat West acted reasonably when requiring Mr and Mrs H to have cover. While  Mr and Mrs H 
dont appear  to have taken a new loan in 2000, policy 3 was sold to replace policy  2 and the switch 
benefitted them because  it had a lower premium.
When these policies were  sold, there  was also a requirement that any recommendation suitable for 
the consumers circumstances and needs and Ive considered this point also. Mr and Mrs H had taken  
on substantial commitments and, with a young family  to support, I think  it was reasonable to 
recommend they had a policy that would enable  the survivor to clear the debt if either  of them  died. 
The amount of cover  provided by the policies and their term, matched the amount and term 
outstanding on their loan and, overall, Im satisfied the policies were suitable for them.
Affordability is also an important consideration when assessing whether  a policy was suitable  and I 
note Mr and Mrs H have said the cost of their policies  was a significant financial burden.  But Im 
conscious they were  able to continue paying  the premiums until 2008 and I dont think  this supports 
any suggestion they werent affordable. Further,  I dont think Nat West could reasonably  have been 
expected to foresee theyd  encounter  financial  difficulties several years later. At the time they were 
sold, I think the available evidence indicates the policies were affordable.
Judging by later requirements,  the sale of policy 1 is potentially harder to justify as its features make it 
more like a PPI policy. But I must recognise that this sale took place before the introduction of the 
Financial Services  Act (1986)  in 1988 and the requirements around suitability  werent in place  at the 
time and cant  be applied retrospectively.  Applying  the requirements and standards as they were in 
1986, Im satisfied the sale of policy 1 was also a reasonable recommendation  to provide the cover  
they were required to have as a condition of their loan.
Ref: DRN22381405Conclusions
Based on the evidence Ive seen and applying  industry requirements and standards at the relevant 
dates, Im satisfied Nat West acted  reasonably  by requiring Mr and Mrs H to have live cover for their 
loans and that the policies  recommended  were appropriate for that purpose. Its for this reason that 
Im not currently proposing  to uphold  their complaint.
I appreciate my assessment  will come as a great disappointment to Mr and Mrs H and isnt what they 
were hoping to hear. I hope the explanation  Ive provided at least helps them  understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
My Provisional Decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN2238140