K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is complaining about the compensation offered by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) to 
settle her complaint about mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mrs H took out four loans with HSBC and with one of them  she bought a PPI policy.  She has 
complained the PPI was mis-sold. HSBC agreed to uphold  her complaint and offered 
£573.94 in compensation.
Mrs H wasnt happy with the compensation offered. She thought that the PPI may have been 
related to a loan which formed part of a chain and other loans  in the chain  could have been 
impacted by the PPI.  
Mrs H was also unhappy that shed asked for information from the HSBC that it didnt 
provide about  loan dates  and it didnt respond to her specific concerns, including a 
breakdown of the PPI costs including commission paid. So she brought her complaint to this 
service. 
Our adjudicator said what HSBC had offered and done was fair. 
Mrs H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. Mrs H is 
represented by her husband.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has agreed to settle Mrs Hs complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, so in this decision 
Im not considering  how the policy came to be sold to Mrs H. Im only looking at if the 
compensation offered to Mrs H is fair.
As Mrs H has asked  for an ombudsmans decision I am reviewing  the whole case  again to 
reach a decision  based  on all the information that has been  presented.  This means I have 
looked at the compensation  that should  be paid by HSBC  because  of the mis-sold PPI and if 
there should be any additional compensation for trouble and upset. 
Mrs H took out four loans with HSBC. She asked HSBC if she had taken out PPI with any of 
these and HSBC  confirmed that she did take out PPI with one of them, loan ending 1935. 
HSBC could not trace any PPI sold with the other  three  loans.
HSBC agreed to uphold Mrs Hs complaint that she had been mis-sold  the PPI with loan 
1935 and it offered to pay compensation to settle her complaint.  It worked  out the 
compensation by taking  everything that Mrs H paid for the PPI, both premiums and any 
interest on those premiums, and also paying an annual rate of 8% simple  interest  for any 
periods Mrs H was out of pocket. In total this came to £573.94, after tax had been deducted 
from the 8% simple interest as required by HM Revenue and Customs.  
The aim of this was to put Mrs H as far as possible in the position she would have been if 
she hadnt taken  out the PPI.
Ref: DRN26903492Mrs H is right, that if there  was a chain  of loans the amount paid for the PPI may have been 
different. However this would only happen  if the loans refinanced each  other and the loan 
that had the PPI attached  was refinanced  early  by one of the other loans. 
HSBC does not have full account records for all the loans from 1997 to 2001, this being  the 
period the four loans  covered. However it does have some computer records  with the basic 
details of the loans. The fact there are limited  records is not unusual  as businesses  are not 
legally required to keep  records  for more than six years. 
The records  HSBC does  have indicate  the end dates of each of the loans and some more  
information about loan 1935  which was the last loan Mrs H took out. This shows  loan1935  
was taken out in November  1998  and ended in May 2001. This loan ran to the full term it 
was taken out for in the loan agreement.
The cost of the PPI for the loan was added to the amount Mrs H borrowed. As the loan ran 
to term, not being  refinanced early with another loan, none of the PPI that was part of this 
loan was carried into any other loan. This also means Mrs H repaid  the full cost of the 
premium that was added  to the loan as part of the repayments. And that is what HSBC has 
included in its calculation  for the total cost of the premiums and also for the loan rate interest 
that was paid on the PPI premium.
I know Mrs H is unhappy that HSBC sent a list of her loans and she thought the list reflected  
the date order  the loans  were taken out. So as loan 1935 was shown second in the list she 
thought it formed  a chain and the two later loans may have been affected by the PPI on loan 
1935. But this wasnt the case. The dates provided from the HSBC records  indicate  loan 
1935 was the last loan Mrs H took out.
As loan 1935  was the only loan with PPI, and it ran to term, it didnt form part of a chain. The 
total premium plus interest  for the PPI associated with this loan forms part of the 
compensation HSBC  has offered. So I think the compensation  to refund the costs of the PPI 
that HSBC has offered  is fair.
As HSBC is refunding  all the costs of the PPI, this will include any commission  that was part 
of the premium. So Mrs H is getting back the full commission amount with the compensation 
HSBC has offered.
As the compensation has not yet been paid to Mrs H, she is still out of pocket for this cost 
and HSBC will need to update the 8% simple  interest to the date of final settlement. 
Mrs H has also requested  additional compensation because she feels HSBC  didnt answer  
her questions in full about a possible chain and as a result she had to come to this service.
I have looked  at the correspondence sent to Mrs H by HSBC in response  to her complaint 
about mis-sold PPI. HSBC did respond to correspondence  within  reasonable time limits, 
although some of its responses  are in a generic format. 
It separated the four loans  into the one with PPI and the other three. HSBC wrote to Mrs H 
and said it could not trace any PPI on three of the loans. In a separate response, about  loan 
1935 that had the PPI, it made an offer to repay  the PPI Mrs H had paid with this loan. 
Ref: DRN26903493Mrs H says she was concerned about  loan 1935 being part of a chain with the other loans, 
and wanted HSBC to investigate this giving a specific response  to her points about  the 
possibility of a chain of loans. But HSBC  had made  her an offer of compensation for the PPI 
and given her referral rights to bring her complaint  to this service if she didnt agree with it. If 
Mrs H was concerned that the amount was wrong for any reason then she had the right to 
bring a complaint to this service;  which  is what she did.
That is the normal process for businesses to follow. And although  Mrs H is unhappy with 
having to bring  a complaint to the financial ombudsman, I dont think HSBC has done 
anything wrong. 
HSBC didnt have  the documents Mrs H was requesting showing details of every  loan and 
would not routinely release its computer  records to customers. Although bringing the 
complaint to this service  has taken additional  time and delayed  the final settlement, she will 
receive the additional 8% simple interest  updated  for this period.
Mrs H has also asked how HSBC will make the payment.  I understand she may want  this 
paid to a specific  account. 
If HSBC is provided with the relevant  account details from Mrs H, either  directly  or through  
this service, it may be able to make the transfer  to her. If HSBC  is for any reason unable  to 
make a direct transfer to the account notified  by Mrs H, it should  make the payment by 
cheque to Mrs H.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  outlined I think what HSBC UK Bank  Plc has offered to settle Mrs Hs 
complaint about  mis-sold PPI is fair, subject to updating the 8% simple interest to the date of 
final settlement. The payment  should  be made to the account notified by Mrs H or by 
cheque.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2690349