K821x#15complaint
Ms G complains that she received unsuitable advice  from Coffey  Brooks Financial Services 
Ltd when she opened a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invested into Global 
Forestry Investment (GFI).
background to complaint
Ms G was an existing client of Coffey Brooks when, in 2012, she transferred the majority of 
her existing personal pension plan into a SIPP for the investment in GFI.
The investment did not perform  as had been  indicated in marketing  literature and in 2016 
Ms G complained to Coffey Brooks about  the advice shed been given.
Coffey Brooks responded to say it hadnt given her any advice regarding the investment and 
it had been completed on an execution-only basis with the product introducer.
Dissatisfied with the response, Ms G brought  her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  succeed. He noted that Coffey Brooks  had 
said it didnt formally advise Ms G about  the investment. But he thought Ms G would have 
seen the actions taken by Coffey Brooks as being  an endorsement of the investment. Coffey 
Brooks had accepted that the brochure for the GFI investment was on its advisers  desk, 
which is where Ms G saw it. The adjudicator thought this wasnt  a mainstream investment 
and wasnt suitable  for Ms G. Also, the amount involved (around £27,000) was too low in 
itself to justify the transfer and use of a SIPP.
Coffey Brooks didnt  agree  with the adjudicators view. It didnt accept there was any advice 
given to Ms G, either implicitly  or directly.  Ms G confirmed this in the SIPP providers 
application form, where she stated that she hadnt  received  advice by a qualified  financial 
adviser. Coffey Brooks allows use of its office and free internet access  if a client requests 
this for their own purpose.  None  of the documents it has seen include any reference  to 
Coffey Brooks. 
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been referred  on to me for 
consideration.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Coffey Brooks has said that it gave Ms G no advice. Rather, she undertook the transfer  of 
her pension and subsequent investment on an execution-only basis. Ive considered  this 
point. 
I appreciate that there doesnt  appear  to be the type of documentation  available which 
would normally be found where financial advice has been given. For instance, theres  no 
fact find or suitability letter setting out a recommendation.  But I dont think the absence  of 
such documents is enough,  in itself, to show that advice wasnt given. Instead,  I think its 
important to take account of the events  that occurred in 2012. 
Ref: DRN24566782Both sides have given their recollection  of what took place. 
Ms G says she visited Coffey Brooks to talk about  investments.  The adviser said she might 
be interested in a green investment hed heard about as he knew she was an ethical 
investor. He thought it would be a good  idea to transfer her stakeholder pension into this 
investment as it would  give a better  return.  Ms G says she was told to see someone at 
Marcus James Group, who would explain the investment for her. A few days later she met 
the Marcus James representative at Coffey  Brooks office. She signed  some papers to 
open the SIPP and also to transfer her pension from her stakeholder plan. 
On the other hand, Ms Gs adviser  at Coffey  Brooks has told us he thinks  she came into 
the office for a general chat, and saw a brochure from Marcus James  Investments on his 
desk which hed just received. She asked him what it was, and he said something along 
the lines of it being  an ethical investment but wasnt regulated. It wasnt  one he would 
recommend, but if she wanted further  details  he would  ask Marcus James  to contact her. 
Ms G then made  arrangements to meet with a representative of Marcus James at Coffey 
Brooks office. He remembers telling Ms G that neither he nor Coffey Brooks  were making 
any sort of recommendation to implement the investment, and if she went  ahead it would 
be her decision. Marcus James has told him that all the paperwork clearly states that the 
transaction was implemented  on an execution-only basis. 
In light of the above, I have first considered if Ms G undertook the transaction to transfer 
her pension into a SIPP  and invest in GFI on an execution-only basis. 
It doesnt seem that Ms G had any intention of doing  anything with her existing pension 
before meeting with her adviser in his office. There seems to be consensus this was for a 
general discussion about her investments. So it seems clear Ms G had no plan to transfer  
her pension or change  her existing funds within it. 
Further, while there is some discrepancy  over how it actually came about,  its clear that 
Ms G only became aware  of the existence  of GFI as an investment when she attended the 
Coffey Brooks office. She had no intention of making such  an investment before this. 
I understand Ms G had a number of existing  investments which she could have sold in 
order to make the investment. But instead she used  her pension to do this, which 
necessitated the transfer into a SIPP. I find it very unlikely she would have been aware of 
this possibility, or the process that would be required, before meeting with her financial 
adviser. 
GFI was an unusual and non-mainstream  investment which  wasnt acceptable to many 
SIPP providers. In fact, the provider Ms G used was not a household name. I find it unlikely 
Ms G would have known that this provider would be able to accept the investment without 
guidance from an outside party. 
Coffey Brooks has told us that Ms G went direct to Marcus James to discuss the 
investment. But it should  have  known  that Marcus James wasnt authorised  to give 
financial advice, and therefore wouldnt be able to make a recommendation about the 
suitability of the potential transaction. Further, given that Marcus James  was acting as 
agent for GFI, its questionable Ms G would have been given a clear and balanced 
explanation of the risks involved.  
Ref: DRN24566783I also think that Ms G would reasonably have thought that her adviser  was promoting and 
endorsing the investment, and approved of it as being suitable for her. She was given the 
brochure for the investment from her financial adviser, who then put her in touch with 
Marcus James to discuss it and arranged a further meeting in his office. 
I note that the provider  of Ms Gs existing pension  wrote to Coffey Brooks on 26 April 2012. 
It said Ms G was considering transferring her benefits, and enclosed an illustration of the 
current transfer value  of £33,350  and details of the benefits she might receive.  
Ive also seen a letter addressed to the pension provider from Coffey  Brooks  dated 8 May 
2012, on its headed notepaper, enclosing a transfer form and confirming that Ms G only 
wished to make a partial transfer of £27,000.  Im therefore satisfied  that Coffey Brooks  had 
greater involvement  in the transaction than it has suggested, and carried out actions 
integral to the transfer taking place.  
I note that on the SIPP  application form Ms G refers to Marcus James as a non-regulated 
introducer. She has also confirmed that she hasnt been advised  by a regulated financial 
adviser on the establishment of the SIPP or any ongoing investment in it. But I also note 
that the application was witnessed by a member of Coffey Brooks  staff. Ms G says the 
form was completed in the office.   
In the circumstances, I dont think the transaction can be safely considered to be execution-
only. And I dont think Ms G was the type of sophisticated, knowledgeable or professional 
investor who would normally  be involved in execution-only  transactions  of this nature, and 
this should have been apparent to Coffey  Brooks. It ought to have appreciated this was an 
important financial decision on which Ms G needed  proper  financial  advice.  If it had offered 
her advice, which was then refused, that would  be a different matter. This could be duly 
recorded, including the reason for the refusal. But thats not what  happened.  
Ms G was an existing customer of Coffey Brooks, who I understand was a retail client who 
had been given financial advice in the past. I dont  think it was reasonable for Coffey  
Brooks to avoid its duty of giving Ms G financial advice  in relation to investing  in GFI. 
At the time of the transaction,  the FSA Handbook  under  COBS  2.1.1 required that: 
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
client.     
I do not Coffey Brooks did so here. 
I have therefore  considered  whether,  if Ms G had been given financial advice, this would 
have found the transfer  and subsequent investment suitable for her. 
Coffey Brooks has provided details of Ms Gs investments. It says she had £300,000 in a 
stocks and shares ISA, around £20,000  in structured  products and two buy-to-let 
properties valued at £300,000. Ive not seen evidence to support this. But even if the 
information is correct,  it doesnt follow that Ms G would want  to take a high degree of risk 
with her pension. She doesnt seem to have  invested in this type of high risk and 
speculative investment before. Coffey  Brooks says the ISA was based on a risk profile  of 
five, which  I take to indicate a balanced  approach to investing. 
Ref: DRN24566784Further, while Ms G appears from this to be reasonably wealthy, she only had a modest 
sum for her pension provision. Its not clear how this was invested with her existing plan, 
but I think its likely that investing  in GFI would  have meant a large  increase in risk that her 
pension fund would be exposed to. 
GFI was a non-mainstream and esoteric investment, involving investing in a teak planation  in 
Brazil. This was divided into around  700 plots,  and individual plots were  to be leased  and 
held in a trust arrangement.  The intention was that investors would receive rental  income 
from the plots they purchased. The marketing literature confirmed it was an unregulated 
investment with no recourse to the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme.
I dont think this was a suitable investment for Ms G which  exposed  her pension to more risk 
that its likely  she was prepared to take.  Coffey Brooks should have advised her accordingly.  
Therefore, its my view that the complaint should be upheld. Ive set out below how fair 
compensation should be calculated. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Ms G as close  to the position she would probably  now be in if she had not been  given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Ms G would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what she would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Ms Gs circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
what should  Coffey Brooks do?
To compensate Ms G fairly,  Coffey  Brooks must:
Compare the performance of Ms Gs investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Coffey Brooks should also pay interest  as set out below.  
If there is a loss, Coffey Brooks  should pay such amount as may be required into 
Ms Gs pension  plan, allowing for any available tax relief and/or costs, to increase the 
pension plan value  by the total amount of the compensation  and any interest.  
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Coffey Brooks is unable  to pay the total amount into Ms Gs pension  plan, it should 
pay that amount direct  to her. But had it been  possible  to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Ms Gs marginal rate of tax at 
retirement. 
Ref: DRN24566785For example, if Ms G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  in retirement,  the notional  
allowance would equate to a reduction  in the total amount  equivalent to the current  
basic rate of tax. However, if Ms G would  have been able to take a tax free lump 
sum, the notional  allowance  should  be applied to 75% of the total amount.
Pay Ms G £250 for the trouble and upset in realising  that there may be no value to 
her investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. If Coffey Brooks  deducts  income  tax 
from the interest it should tell Ms G how much  has been taken off. Coffey  Brooks  should give 
Ms G a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
My aim is to return Ms G to the position she would have been  in but for the unsuitable  
advice. This is complicated  where an investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily 
sold on the open market) as in this case. It would be difficult  to know the actual  value of the 
investment. In such a case the actual value should  be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. Coffey Brooks should  take ownership of the illiquid  investment by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from 
the total payable to Ms G and the balance be paid as I set out above.
If Coffey Brooks is unable  to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed 
to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Coffey  Brooks may wish to require that Ms G 
provides an undertaking to pay Coffey Brooks any amount she may receive from the 
investment in the future.  That undertaking must  allow  for any tax and charges that would be 
incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Coffey  Brooks  will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Ref: DRN24566786Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept  if Coffey Brooks totals all those payments and deducts that figure  at the 
end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Ms G wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return index (prior to 1 March  2017, 
the FTSE WMA  Stock Market  Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government  bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Ms Gs circumstances  and risk attitude.
Ms G has not yet used her pension plan to purchase an annuity.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Coffey  Brooks Financial Services  Limited should 
pay the amount  calculated as set out above.
Coffey Brooks Financial Services Limited  should  provide details of its calculation to Ms G in 
a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms G either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 July 2019.
 ..
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2456678