K820x#14complaint
Miss L took out a mortgage  with a member of the Bank of Scotland  PLC group. Prior  to 
doing so she instructed  Bank of Scotland  PLC (trading as Colleys)  to provide her with a 
report on the property  she was buying. She complains that the report  failed to tell her that 
there was a coal chute  that was unsealed  and allowed water to enter the cellar when it 
rained causing  damage to the property.
background
The adjudicator thought  that Colleys did make Miss L aware in the survey that there were 
serious problems in the cellar. Whilst he understood her frustration that the valuation  didnt 
identify the issue  with the coal chute  he noted  that she didnt request the higher level of 
inspection which provides for a thorough assessment of the property. He also noted the 
inspection she opted for was a visual inspection only, carried out by a RICS qualified 
surveyor, which points out any areas  where  specialist  investigation or advice should  be 
sought or where future  repairs  or replacements may be necessary. Further  he thought  that 
as the coal chute was covered by a rubber mat and door mat, it could  have been  missed by 
a surveyor doing  a visual inspection, so he didnt  agree that Colleys  failed  in its duty of care 
by not noticing it. So taking everything into account he was satisfied that Colleys had acted 
in a fair and reasonable  manner.
Miss L didnt  agree.  She pointed  out that if the report can pick up the outrigger roof being 
built to the incorrect  pitch (a structural comment)  then stating  a coal shute was unsealed  and 
causing a leak and requires sealing surely falls in the same form of guidance  within a tier two 
report. She says she was also informed that the tier three  report was only usually required 
when a home was in severe state of requiring renovation or an unusual building.  She has 
spoken to various  surveyors and contractors about what has happened and everyone was 
surprised that the report  failed to mentioned the coal shute.
my provisional decision
Although I didnt intend to change the outcome  proposed by the adjudicator I set out my 
thoughts in a provisional rather than final decision. This was because  I wanted both parties 
to have a chance to comment on my thoughts as I had looked at some new issues  raised by 
Miss L.
First I wanted  to say I understood Miss Ls frustration.  She had bought a house which 
requires work she didnt expect. But before I could order what  she wants  that Bank of 
Scotland pay for the extra  works to be done  Id have to be satisfied that Colleys  had done  
something wrong.
I thought the report didnt  mention the coal chute because the surveyor  didnt see it. And I 
thought he didnt see it because it was covered up. I thought it was quite clear from the 
survey that the inspection  was visual and the surveyor wouldnt move  things to inspect. For 
example, it said: I was unable to fully inspect within fitted units and built in cupboard  due to 
stored items.  So I didnt  think the surveyor should  have been  expected to move  anything 
which blocked his view of the chute.
Ref: DRN22085082The adjudicator set out in detail in his view the ways in which  the report  highlighted there  
was a problem  with the cellar and with dampness. I thought  this was enough to satisfy  
Colleys responsibilities with regard to a visual-only inspection. I appreciated that when 
Miss L asked a specialist  to look at the problems  highlighted in the report  they didnt  look at 
problems with the coal chute because the report didnt refer to it. But the specialist visited  
the property and looked at dampness  and issues with the cellar so I thought  if they had seen 
the chute they would have  mentioned  it, certainly  if they had thought the chute might  be the 
cause of the problems. The fact that they didnt mention it suggested to me they didnt 
realise it was there and added further weight  to the case  that it wasnt something that would  
be picked up on a standard  visual  inspection.
I understood Miss Ls points about  the comments regarding the roof. But I thought  this was 
the kind of thing that can be assessed  by a visual inspection as the roof wasnt covered.
I also understood her point about what surveyors have told her and their surprise  that the 
chute wasnt pointed  out. But I said they didnt  inspect the property. And as I had said I didnt 
think the surveyor omitted to point  out something  he had seen. I thought he didnt see it 
because it was covered.
Finally, I appreciated  Miss L thought the bank  told her a tier three report was only usually 
required when a home was in severe  state of requiring renovation  or an unusual building.  I 
could understand  how Miss L might have left her interview with the bank feeling this as the 
bank has accepted its adviser  did tell her that tier three reports  were usually for an unusual 
build or something  you had concerns  about. But Miss L was shown the banks video setting  
out the options regarding  property assessment. And I was satisfied that Miss L was aware 
that a higher level of report which would look at the property  more thoroughly was available  
albeit at an increased cost.
responses to my provisional  decision
The bank didnt  respond to my provisional decision.
Miss L did. She says she trusted Colleys to provide a fair and thorough survey done  in the 
accordance with RICS Standards. She was of the understanding  that the survey would be 
non-intrusive and would be surveyed  on surface level. She also wants to highlight that, 
being a first time buyer, she had never  experienced purchasing or living in a Victorian 
terrace home, however,  given home  buying reports are an activity undertaken on a daily 
basis by Colleys she would have  expected  it  to have  had previous  experience  with Victorian  
or historic builds and therefore would be familiar with common features of a home like hers 
and applied  knowledge and experience when surveying her home and other  Victorian 
homes.
She agrees that the surveyor isnt expected  to move items,  however if something was 
blocking the view of the full perimeter of the cellar and boundary walls then this should  have 
been noted in the survey. 
Finally she thinks that even on a visual survey  there  should have been some consideration 
as to why there was a thick rubber slab placed  under a standard door mat outside  the front 
door step as this would  not be standard. She imagines it was there  to block  water  from 
entering the property.
Ref: DRN22085083my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the strength of Miss Ls feeling on this matter. 
I agree  that the surveyor could have put that he didnt move the mat on his report. I dont  
think, however,  if he had done this it would  have made Miss L do anything differently  as - if 
he was going  into this much detail - it would have just be one of a number of things that he 
said he hadnt moved.
I can see how it now seems obvious  that the rubber mat was there  for a purpose connected 
to the presence  of the unsealed coal shute. But the surveyor  didnt have the benefit of 
hindsight and I dont  think the mat caused him any concern. Nor do I think  it was negligent 
that it didnt cause him concern. As I said in my provisional decision, a specialist  who was 
looking only at dampness in the cellar  didnt mention the mat and he must have passed it 
too.
Overall, whilst very sympathetic  to Miss L, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision 
and in these findings, I dont agree that the bank  has done anything  wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2208508