K821x#15complaint
Mrs E, as a power of attorney, and her husband  Mr E, complain on behalf of her mother  
Mrs M and her late father  Mr M. 
In short,  they say Mr and Mrs M were mis-sold a decreasing  term assurance  policy  by 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS), and that they had cover, so the policy  wasnt 
needed. 
background
RBS didnt uphold  the complaint. In summary, it said:
On 10 December 2014, Mr and Mrs M met with one of RSBs protection  direct 
consultants (consultant) in branch, when  they applied for the decreasing term 
assurance policy with a £25,000  sum assured for a term of five years.  
The consultant  wasnt a financial adviser, so was unable to provide financial advice. 
The plan was taken  out on a self-select basis, without seeking  or receiving financial 
advice. However, the consultant could provide general information about  the product.
It had found  no evidence of Mr and Mrs M having any existing life cover  at the time. 
But its possible that they did and wanted  additional  cover. 
On 12 December 2014, Mr and Mrs M applied for a personal loan of £25,000 
repayable over a term of five years. But only a loan of £18,000 was approved. 
Despite this Mr and Mrs M were happy with their life cover application made two days  
earlier.  
In January 2015, Mr and Mrs M in response to receiving the policy documentation 
confirmed with the policy provider that they wished to proceed with the policy. 
They were under no obligation  to continue with the policy and had the right to cancel 
if it wasnt what they wanted.   
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but thought  it should  be partially upheld. 
In summary,  she said:
The policy taken out in January 2015,  met Mr and Mrs Ms need for life cover. 
Despite being  given the opportunity to provide evidence of any existing policies they 
havent done so. 
She notes the application for the policy also didnt state that they had cover in place 
at the time.
Although there was a need,  the policy didnt match the amount of the loan. Because  
the loan application was for £25,000 and only £18,000 was lent, but the policy  was 
still for £25,000 worth of life cover. 
Although RBS made the following points (below) she wasnt satisfied that advice  
wasnt given: 
oIt didnt act as a financial adviser,  so wouldnt have assessed Mr and Mrs Ms 
financial circumstances.
oThe policy was sold by one of its consultants who they met on 10 December 
2014, prior to purchasing the policy in 2015.
oThe consultant  wouldve  only provided information on the types  of life policies 
it could provide, such as term assurance, over 50s plans and whole of life 
policies. 
Ref: DRN22959882oIf it provided advice it wouldve charged  Mr and Mrs M £500,  and this 
wouldve been recorded. 
oThe terms of business wouldve also set out that this was a non-advised sale 
 but it cant now provide  a copy.
As the loan and life policy were being applied for at the same time, with the same 
business, Mr and Mrs M shouldve been advised to get a decreasing  term assurance 
policy covering only the £18,000  loan amount, not £25,000.  
By way of redress RBS should calculate  what Mr and Mrs M wouldve paid for a 
policy providing £18,000 worth of cover compared to what they paid. If theres a loss 
RBS should refund  this with 8% simple  interest. 
Mr and Mrs E disagree with the investigators view and have asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary,  Mr E said he fundamentally disagreed with our investigators 
conclusion that RBS did nothing wrong. 
RBS isnt sure why this case  was going for an ombudsmans decision as the complaint was 
upheld in Mr and Mrs Ms favour. But it maintains this was a non-advised sale and would  
object to the case being upheld in any event. In summary,  it said:
The investigator was incorrect  to say that the sale of the loan and the policy took 
place the same  day. The policy  was taken on Wednesday 10 December 2014.
Because this was a non-advised sale, its unable to explain why the policy was 
applied for before  the loan but highlights this was entirely Mr and Mrs Ms decision to 
do so. 
Mr and Mrs M applied for the £25,000 loan two days after the policy was taken out, 
on 12 December 2014. So, the consultant wouldnt have even known about the value 
of the loan Mr and Mrs M were seeking  to protect. 
The loan didnt  go ahead, it doesnt know  why. It assumed £18,000  was the 
maximum it could  lend.  
On 30 December 2014, the policy provider  wrote to Mrs and Mrs M confirming that 
their application  had been accepted. And on 12 January 2015 Mr and Mrs M 
confirmed with the policy provider that they wish to continue  with the policy. 
It doesnt accept  responsibility  for the mismatch  between the loan and the policy 
covering it.   
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not minded to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr and Mrs E say, Im not 
persuaded that RBS has done anything wrong in the circumstances. 
It seems  theres been some confusion about  whether  or not the investigator upheld  the 
complaint. It seems to me she partially upheld the complaint:  she thought this was an 
advised sale; and there was a need  for the policy; she thought the mismatch with the policy 
and level of cover was unsuitable  and, on this basis, she recommended  redress.  
Ref: DRN22959883But I disagree with the investigators view. At my request the investigator explained this to Mr 
and Mrs E and asked for their views. Despite  the earlier misunderstanding, they had no new 
points to add. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely  say that the decreasing 
term assurance policy wasnt  taken  out on a direct  basis. In other words, I dont think it was 
sold with financial advice.  
Mr and Mrs M applied for the policy on 10 December 2019, through a consultant  in branch. I 
note the consultant wasnt a financial adviser and wasnt  able to give financial advice. 
I note they applied for the policy two days before they applied  for the loan, and roughly a 
month before the loan was approved with the lower amount. 
On balance Im satisfied that was an off the shelf policy they bought through  the consultant,  
without advice. And that would explain why in this instance there  was no fact find or 
suitability letter looking into their financial circumstances. 
Im mindful that even  after the loan was approved   for the lower amount  they were 
content to proceed  with their original policy application. 
Its likely  Mr and Mrs M already knew the level of debt they wanted to consolidate  and went 
ahead with protecting it before even  applying for the loan and were  happier with the higher 
protection amount. In any case, as this was a non-advised  sale the onus was on them  to 
make sure the policy met their need.  
In other  words, I think  the onus was on Mr and Mrs M to make sure the plan was suitable  for 
their circumstances, regardless  of whether there  was a mismatch between  the level of 
cover and the loan.  It was their responsibility to adjust the level of cover if it wasnt what  they 
wanted. 
Even if Mr and Mrs M had existing cover in place at the time  which  Ive not seen evidence  
of, either  in the application form or subsequently  from Mr and Mrs E  it was a matter for 
them not RBS.   Theres nothing stopping them from choosing to have more  cover.  
Im aware that mis-selling can take place based on the nature  of advertising and the 
representations contained within. But in this instance, Im satisfied the documentation  
supplied to Mr and Mrs M, before  they accepted the cover was clear, fair and not misleading. 
And it made reasonably clear the term and amount of the policy. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs Es frustration, Im unable to ask RBS to do anything because  
I dont think it has done anything wrong.  
In conclusion, on balance  Im satisfied this was a non-advised sale, and sufficient policy  
documentation was provided that made  reasonably clear the nature and operation of the 
decreasing term assurance policy.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Ref: DRN22959884Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2295988