K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that Clear  Score  Technology  Limited allowed somebody to set up an 
account in her name without her permission. She doesnt feel that Clear Score  Technology  
Limited carried out sufficient checks before opening the account. 
background
In November 2018, a Clear  Score  account was opened in Mrs Es name. Mrs Es name, 
address, date of birth and email address was used  to open the account. As part of the 
account opening process a number of security  questions were asked in relation to her credit  
file. 
On the day the account was opened Mrs E received an email  to welcome her to Clear  Score.  
Three minutes after this email was sent to Mrs E she emailed Clear Score. She explained 
that she hadnt opened the account  and asked that the account was deleted  immediately.  
A few days  later Clear  Score emailed Mrs E and asked her for further information to help 
them verify her. Mrs E emailed Clear Score on a number  of occasions asking them 
questions about  how the account couldve been  set up and asking for it to be closed down. 
Mrs E sent eight emails  on one particular day.
Clear Score took a few days to respond. A supervisor sent an email and explained how the 
account was set up. They explained to Mrs E they locked down the account but somebody  
managed to access the Clear Score account  four times on the day the account was opened. 
The supervisor confirmed  the account  would remain  dormant and inaccessible  to the third 
party.
Mrs E was still unhappy with what Clear  Score said. As a result Clear Score  issued a final 
response letter and apologised  for the delays in responding to her emails.  They  offered     
Mrs E £50 for the distress caused for the delays and also placed  a protective marker with a 
fraud prevention database in an attempt to protect Mrs Es details.  
Mrs E was unhappy with Clear Scores response  and asked our service to consider the 
case. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt the 
person who set up the account already knew a lot of information about  Mrs E. This meant  
they were able to successfully pass the security process. He felt Clear  Score had taken 
reasonable steps to put things right for Mrs E by offering  her £50 compensation and 
recording information with a fraud  prevention agency. 
Mrs E responded by saying that Clear  Scores security process is inadequate and wanted 
the case fully reviewed as Clear  Score had exposed her credit  file details illegally. Mrs E 
wanted further compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused.  Mrs E felt she should 
be compensated somewhere in the region of £500.  Mrs E asked for the answer to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN27896492Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons. 
the account opening
Clear Score has shown  us that in order  to open an account a customers  details  are verified  
against their credit file. They also have some specific security questions  which  are asked by 
the credit  reference  agency to verify the identity of the person asking to open the account. 
In Mrs Es case  the evidence confirms  that the person who opened the account already 
knew her name, address, date of birth and email address.  They were also able to answer 
specific questions about her financial standing which was checked against the information 
held by credit reference agency. After these checks happened an email was sent to Mrs Es 
email address to confirm  the account was set up. 
I do appreciate that this incident was very distressing for Mrs E but the evidence tells me that 
the person who did this already had a lot of information about Mrs E. If the third party  didnt 
know this personal  information  the account  wouldnt have been  set up in Mrs Es name.  
Im satisfied that Clear  Score  followed their account opening processes when setting up the 
account. Because of this, I cannot  ask them to compensate Mrs E for setting  up the account. 
In my view the distress in this case was caused  by the third party  being  able to have 
sufficient information  to open the account. I can understand  why Mrs E is so concerned  
because she believes somebody wouldve  been  able to know  all the relevant information  if 
they intercepted  a piece of post.  In general,  it is always very distressing when you dont 
know how a third party has been able to gain access to information which is personal to you. 
And I cannot say how this person  was able to get access to Mrs Es information  but the 
evidence does show they knew all this information to be able to open the account. Based on 
the evidence I cannot say Clear Score were incorrect in opening the account  at the time. 
Clear Score has taken  additional steps to load Mrs Es details with a fraud prevention 
agency. This is a protective measure which Clear  Score took to protect Mrs Es details in the 
future. I think this was the right action for Clear  Score to take to support Mrs E. 
time taken  to close the account down
Mrs E reacted very quickly to the welcoming email she received  from Clear  Score. 
Clear Score confirmed that the account  was accessed four times on the day the account  was 
set up. Clear Score then managed to block access to the account which prevented  further 
access to Mrs Es information.
I dont think it is unreasonable that Clear Score didnt close the account immediately when 
Mrs E sent the email to it. I appreciate Mrs E acted  really  quickly  to send the email response  
but I also need to consider that Clear Score have processes in place to review and respond  
to emails and unfortunately not all emails can be actioned immediately. Im satisfied that 
Clear Score acted within a reasonable time to close down  the account.  This prevented  
further access to Mrs Hs details.
time taken  to respond to Mrs Es emails
Ref: DRN27896493Mrs E sent a number  of emails to Clear  Score and it did take them  a few days to 
acknowledge and respond to these. Mrs E was worried about her personal details and had a 
number of questions  which  she wanted answered. 
Taking everything into account  Clear Score couldve responded to Mrs Es emails sooner. I 
accept the delays in their responses meant that Mrs E was distressed. Clear Score  have 
offered to pay Mrs E £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused by them  not responding 
to her emails sooner. If they responded to her sooner she wouldve been aware that the 
account was closed and she wouldve had the opportunity to have  the marker loaded  with 
the fraud prevention agency  sooner. 
I appreciate Mrs E wants compensation in the region of £500.  But having  reviewed  
everything I dont think it would be fair to ask Clear Score to pay more compensation. I say 
this because the person who opened the account already knew Mrs Es information  and this 
is what allowed them  to gain access to her credit information. So, without all of this 
information Im satisfied that the third party wouldnt have been  able to open the account. I 
cannot hold Clear Score responsible for the third party  already  knowing a sufficient amount 
of information  to enable them to open  the Clear  Score account. 
I know Mrs E will be very disappointed because she has found the situation very stressful 
but I believe the third party who stole Mrs Es information  has caused the distress in this 
case. 
Clear Score have offered  to pay Mrs E £50 to acknowledge the distress  and inconvenience 
caused as a result of the delays. Im satisfied that £50 is fair under the circumstances and I 
wont be asking Clear  Score to do anything further. I expect Clear Score to keep that offer 
available in case Mrs E wants to accept it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Es complaint against Clear Score Technology  
Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Tracey Nugent
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2789649