K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Ageas  Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined Mr Cs claim for
medical treatment under  their annual travel insurance policy.
background
In May 2018  Mrs C renewed  the annual travel  insurance policy she and her husband  had
with Ageas. Mrs C had a number of pre-existing medical conditions  which  had previously
been declared to Ageas. She confirmed that only she had pre-existing medical conditions
and was taken  through  a medical  declaration  about  those conditions.
While Mr and Mrs C were  on holiday Mr C became unwell with nausea, vomiting and back
pain. He was admitted  to hospital  and diagnosed  with acute gastroenteritis  and mechanical
back pain. He submitted  a claim to Ageas for the cost of his treatment.  In assessing the
claim Ageas contacted  Mr Cs GP who advised  them he was diagnosed with chronic
obstructive pulmonary  disease  (COPD)  in March 2017 and pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) in
February 2018. Hed been attending  a respiratory  clinic since  January 2017  and taking
medication for his conditions. He was also recorded  in 2016 that he had a history of
asbestos exposure. Ageas said none  of this had been declared  by Mrs C when renewing the
policy. So Mr Cs claim was declined.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to Ageas who werent  prepared to change  their decision, as they
said the failure to disclose  Mr Cs pre-existing medical conditions was reckless
misrepresentation.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to our service. Our investigator agreed that Mr Cs pre-existing
medical conditions  should have been  disclosed to Ageas. But she said it was for Ageas to
show the failure to disclose this information was reckless  or deliberate  misrepresentation.
And she didnt think Ageas had done enough  to show  this. She felt it was careless
misrepresentation so she didnt  think Ageas could  reasonably decline the claim. And as the
evidence showed  Ageas wouldve covered Mr Cs COPD and TB for an additional premium,
she upheld the complaint  and recommended  they assess the claim and offer a proportionate
settlement, taking into account  the additional  premium  that wouldve been  charged.
Ageas didnt agree so the case  came to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 March 2019  and Ive set out my provisional findings 
below.
Its clear from the call Mrs C made to Ageas that she was aware  of the need  to disclose pre-
existing medical conditions. She had a number of pre-existing medical conditions which she
declared for herself. But when asked about  Mr Cs health she said he had no pre-existing
medical conditions.  The information provided by Mr Cs GP has shown this wasnt  correct as
hed been diagnosed with COPD in 2017  and TB in 2018.
Ageas declined Mr Cs claim as they say Mrs Cs failure to disclose his pre-existing medical
conditions was a reckless misrepresentation. When thinking about  whats  fair and
reasonable in this case Ive had regard to the relevant legislation  - the Consumer  Insurance
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA), as Ageas has a remedy available to it
only if theres been a qualifying  misrepresentation under  the Act.
Ref: DRN20092622When thinking about whether or not Mrs C made  a qualifying misrepresentation, I need to
consider how clear and specific  Ageas questions were and whether I think Mrs C took
reasonable care when  answering these questions. The standard of care required is that of a
reasonable consumer. If Mrs C made a qualifying misrepresentation then there are different
remedies available  to Ageas.
Mrs C declared  a number  of medical conditions for herself,  so she was aware  of the need to
disclose pre-existing medical  conditions. During the renewal call with Ageas she was asked
So its just yourself with pre-existing medical  conditions. Your  husband  has none. To which
she replied Yes. She and the advisor  then went on to discuss  her medical  conditions.  But
this consisted  of him taking her through a series of questions based  on the information
recorded on her current  policy.
Mrs C has told us she wasnt aware her husband was suffering from COPD  and TB. Shes
said she knew he had been prescribed  an inhaler, but he didnt use it, so she didnt think  it
was relevant. Shes also told us her husband  worked away from home a lot and didnt
discuss his health  with her. However, the onus was on Mrs C when renewing the policy  on
behalf of her husband, to satisfy herself that the answers she was giving were correct.
Ageas sent Mrs C her policy documentation  on 18 May 2018. This included  an insurance
certificate setting out the conditions Mrs C had declared, and confirming she was covered for
these. But as no pre-existing  conditions were  declared for Mr C the certificate states  no pre-
existing medical conditions covered. A medical declaration  setting out the information 
Mrs C had provided regarding her health was also enclosed. The letter  enclosing  these  
documents told Mrs C to check the policy schedule and medical declaration  and ensure the 
answers she provided were all correct. The letter states You  must contact us if the policy  
documents are incorrect.
So when the policy schedule was sent to Mrs C in May 2018 she and her husband had the
opportunity to check it and call Ageas if anything wasnt correct.  But she didnt call them.
Based on the available evidence I dont think Mrs C took reasonable care when answering
Ageas question about her husbands health.
So, Im satisfied Mrs C made a qualifying misrepresentation.  There are two types  of
qualifying misrepresentation  reckless  and careless. If I think  Mrs C was reckless  then
Ageas is entitled  to refuse the claim.  If I think Mrs C was careless then Ageas is entitled  to
reduce the claim  payment  proportionate to the higher premium  it would  have charged  to
cover Mr Cs medical conditions.
Ageas consider the misrepresentation in this case to be reckless, as Mrs C knew  her
husband didnt  share information  with her, but she chose not to check if the information in
the medical declaration was correct. And she knew by virtue of her own conditions  the
relevance of declaring  medical conditions.
Its for Ageas to show the misrepresentation was reckless.  The insurance was taken out by
Mrs C. She disclosed information about her own medical conditions  and has said she wasnt
aware of her husbands health problems.
Ageas believe  Mrs C was aware of her husbands  medical conditions. Theyve referred to an
entry in his medical records dated 11 May 2018. This says:-Letter from consultant
Discharge Greater Glasgow & Clyde Medical Dept.  Patient given meds at discharge  for now
Ref: DRN20092623and next time, as difficult to get. per patients  wife.  Ageas think this entry  shows Mrs C was
aware of her husbands condition. I dont think the entry confirms  Mrs C attended the
hospital with her husband, and so was aware of his condition. But, at the very least, I think  it
confirms thered been contact between Mrs C and the GP surgery, whod been trying to
speak to her husband  about medication. And as the surgery was trying to contact Mr C, at
around the time Mrs C was arranging insurance for them both,  I think it would have been
reasonable for her to check  with her husband if there was anything about  his health she
needed to declare to Ageas.
I think Mrs C was aware of the importance  of providing correct  information to Ageas, as
shed declared  her own health conditions. She was arranging the policy  for Mr C, as well as
herself, and she knew hed been prescribed an inhaler,  and was aware  his GP had been
trying to contact him. I think Mrs C should reasonably have discussed Mr Cs health with him
before making  a declaration that he had no medical conditions.
Under CIDRA a reckless misrepresentation includes situations where the consumer knows
or doesnt care whether  the statement theyre  making is untrue or misleading.
So, therefore Im satisfied Mrs C made  a reckless misrepresentation.
Where theres been a qualifying misrepresentation which was reckless, CIDRA  says,  the
insurer 
  (a) may avoid the contract and refuse all claims, and
(b) need not return any of the premiums paid, except to the extent (if any) that it 
would be unfair  to the consumer to retain them.
Ive considered what Ageas has said about what Mr C told it about  his pre-existing medical
conditions after the claim was made. But this was after the point of renewal, so I dont think
its relevant and, in any event, Ive already set out why I think  Mrs C was reckless.
I understand Mrs C has said the claim that was made had nothing to do with Mr Cs pre-
existing medical conditions. But the remedies  available to an insurer under CIDRA arent
dependent on there being a link between the misrepresentation and the condition  claimed
for. If a qualifying misrepresentation of any pre-existing medical condition is deliberate or
reckless then Ageas is entitled to avoid the contract and refuse the claim.
So my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Since I issued my provisional  decision both Ageas and Mr and Mrs C have indicated that 
they accept my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ageas and Mr and Mrs C have  indicated that they accept my provisional decision I dont 
think I need to comment  further on the complaint.
Ref: DRN20092624my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision my final decision is that I dont uphold  
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  against Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2009262