K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has invoked the fraud  condition  on her 
home insurance policy. She also complains that UKI declined  her claim, demanded 
repayment of monies paid out for the claim and that its placed  a fraud marker against her 
name on various databases.  
background
Mrs H took out home insurance with UKI on 5 September 2018. On 19 September 2018  she 
made a claim for damage caused  by an escape of water. She said her basement had 
flooded from a burst cold water pipe which had damaged the walls and floors.  She said 
shed had a plumber attend  who stopped the leak and replaced the pipe.  UKI asked Mrs H 
during the call if shed  made any other  claims within  the last three years and she said she 
hadnt.
UKI instructed a surveyor  to attend and inspect the damage. It found no evidence  of recently 
replaced pipework.  It also thought the moisture present was directly related  to rising damp 
as the basement appeared to be below the damp  proof course. It didnt think  the moisture  
was in any way related  to the reported incident.  UKI asked Mrs H if she could  get a cause  of 
damage report from her own plumber which she did, sending it to UKI a few days  later. 
A few days  after that UKI called Mrs H to say it was unable  to cover the part of her claim 
relating to damage to her buildings as it was satisfied this hadnt been caused  by an escape  
of water.  Mrs H said at this point  that some  of her contents had actually  been  damaged  and 
she wanted to make a claim for them. These included  kitchen white  goods. UKI settled this 
part of Mrs Hs claim a couple of days later paying  her £705.83. Following this, Mrs H sent 
UKI another  report  from her plumber about  the fridge freezer. 
At this point, UKI had concerns about the recent  inception  of the policy  and the possible 
exaggeration of the claim so it carried out some  additional investigations. Those  
investigations were  unable to link the plumber  to the address hed provided, nor where they 
able to find any record of him/his company online. On reviewing the properties for the 
documents provided, UKI discovered theyd been written  by Mrs H.
UKI then checked the external claims database. It found that Mrs H had made an identical 
claim to her previous insurer  on 1 August 2018.  UKI contacted the other insurer and it said it 
had concerns with the claim as it too had been  registered within  the first week after 
inception. The other insurer said itd declined the claim on the grounds  no cover  was in 
place. 
UKI called Mrs H to discuss the claim. During the call she told UKI that she had held no prior 
insurance before taking  out the UKI policy and that shed not made  any previous claims. She 
said shed known the plumber for many years and that hed sent his reports  to her by email. 
On being challenged by UKI about  its concerns about the previous  claim and the builders 
report, Mrs H was unable  to provide it with an explanation. She asked UKI to call her back 
later. 
On the later call, Mrs H denied that shed changed  the incident date in an attempt to gain 
cover with UKI because  her previous insurer had declined  the claim. UKI said to her that she 
had provided it with, what appeared to be, false documents (the cause  of damage reports) 
Ref: DRN23601112as they appeared to have  been created by her. It also said the telephone  number shed 
provided for the builder didnt exist. 
UKI told Mrs H it was satisfied that shed  claimed for damage that had already been the 
subject of a previous claim, one that existed prior to the start of her policy  with UKI. It said 
shed attempted  to alter the date of the incident in an attempt to gain cover and had provided 
it with false cause of damage reports. It said it considered this to be fraud and that Mrs Hs 
claim was declined. UKI said it now sought the reimbursement of sums  associated with the 
claim (a total of £1,107.07) and was cancelling (voiding) her policy back to the date of the 
claim. It said she had knowingly given it false information in an attempt to try and benefit 
financially from something she wasnt entitled  to. 
Mrs H complained to UKI about its decision.  UKI looked into Mrs Hs complaint but didnt 
change its mind. So Mrs H complained to this service.  She said that shed  taken out a policy 
with the other insurer on 30 July 2018 and made an escape of water claim shortly after. She 
said the claim was closed and she received no money and she cancelled the policy  on 14 
August 2018.  She said the two claims were different. The first was an escape  of water from 
a sewer pipe and the second from a cold water  pipe. She provided  a letter  from her water 
utility company to prove there had been  a sewer pipe leak near her home.  She said the 
phone number for the plumber was just an error and the correct  one was on his invoice. She 
didnt know where  the plumber  lived or if his address was correct  or not. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Hs complaint but he didnt recommend that it was upheld.  
He thought UKI hadnt treated Mrs H unfairly or unreasonably. Mrs H asked for her complaint 
to be referred for an ombudsmans  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my role to look at all the available  evidence and decide if UKI has treated Mrs H fairly 
and reasonably in all the circumstances.  Having done so, I have to say that I think  it has. 
There are numerous inconsistencies in Mrs Hs dealings with UKI that caused it to believe,  
not unreasonably  so, that she was trying  to obtain financial gain for something she wasnt 
entitled to. 
It is the responsibility of both parties to a contract  to act in an honest and open manner. 
When she was asked  by UKI during the sales call if shed had any claims or losses  in the 
last three  years,  Mrs H said she hadnt.  The policy documentation that was sent out to her by 
UKI to confirm cover contained a statement on the front page  asking  Mrs H to check the 
documents and ensure the information  provided  was correct. If it wasnt she was asked to 
contact UKI immediately because incorrect information could invalidate the policy or lead to 
a claim being declined. The document confirmed the answers  given by Mrs H to the 
questions asked during the sales call. One of the questions was Have yousuffered  any 
loss, damage or liability whether insured or not, during  the last three  years...  
Mrs Hs answer  to that question was recorded  as a no. But she eventually admitted to UKI 
(having continuously denied holding  any prior insurance or making any previous claims), that 
she had made a claim under a policy shed taken  out with another insurer just over a month 
before she took out the one with UKI. But that the claim had been declined  and the policy 
cancelled. 
Ref: DRN23601113So Mrs H answered the questions on the sales call incorrectly and failed to contact UKI to 
rectify her error upon receipt  of her policy documents.  When UKI spoke to her about its 
concerns  and the fact she had changed  the date of the incident  in an attempt to gain 
something to which she wasnt entitled  under the policy - she also denied any knowledge  of 
having previous  cover  or having made  the claim.  
I know Mrs H has since said she couldnt  be expected to remember the previous claim but 
as it was only a month or so before she took out her policy with UKI, I dont think  it is 
unreasonable to expect  her to have remembered it. The same goes for the policy she held 
with the other insurer. In addition to the sales call, she also said on the notification of loss 
call that shed not had another policy only to say later (during the call to discuss the 
inconsistencies) she had but had cancelled it before taking the one with UKI. But I can see 
that the policy with the other  insurer wasnt cancelled by her until November 2018.  
I cant ignore either that UKIs investigations led to the discovery  that the cause of damage 
reports had been  created  by Mrs H and not the plumber. When challenged about  it by UKI, 
Mrs H denied she had done  so but was unable to provide it with any explanation. 
Conversely, she told our investigator  that shed written the reports on behalf  of the plumber 
because he had poor English. It is unclear to me, if this was the case,  why Mrs H didnt say 
so to UKI when it was questioning her about them. 
I appreciate that Mrs H has said the two incidents  were completely different but Im unable  to 
ignore the strong similarities in the circumstances  of two claims made to both insurers. Nor 
am I able to ignore the non-existence of the phone  number  provided for the plumber. Mrs H 
has provided us with a photograph of the invoice  she says the plumber gave her. I can see 
that was dated  1 October 2018  and she says it contains his correct phone  number. So she 
says that if she made an error in copying  across the number  then UKI only needed to look at 
the invoice and try the number on there. But Ive not seen any evidence  that this invoice was 
sent to UKI and, even if it was, I can see that the phone number on it is the same  as was on 
the cause of damage report. UKI had tried this number  already and it didnt  exist.  
So, on balance, I think that UKI didnt unreasonably invoke the fraud  clause contained in the 
policy terms. Its clear  from that term that the policyholder is under a contractual obligation  to 
be honest and truthful  at all times in his/her dealings with UKI. It also says that UKI wont pay 
claims that are in any way fraudulent, and that any attempt to deceive  or make a fraudulent 
claim can lead to the policys cancellation, the rejection of the claim and the retention  of any 
premium paid. It goes on to say that UKI has the right to share information about the 
fraudulent behaviour of its policyholders in order to prevent further  fraud. 
I think that UKI has been able to show that Mrs H didnt act honestly in its dealings  with it 
and that she tried to obtain a financial gain to which she wasnt entitled.  That being the case, 
it is permitted under the policy  terms to decline her claim, cancel the policy  back to the date 
of the claim and keep  any premiums  paid. As the claim  is declined  it means that any monies 
paid out in connection with it  both to Mrs H as settlement and third parties for any services  
performed  can be recovered.  So I dont  think UKI is treating Mrs H unreasonably by 
seeking the reimbursement of all funds associated with the claim because the claim should 
never have  been  paid and the policy is being treated as if it wasnt  in force. 
UKI has recorded Mrs Hs claim as a fraudulent one. Mrs H says she wants any fraud 
marker notifications against her name  to be removed from any databases UKI has recorded 
Ref: DRN23601114them on. Im unable to make UKI do that because I dont think it unreasonably  or unfairly  
said Mrs H had attempted to defraud it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2360111