K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1996 when Mr and Mrs H were applying  for 
a mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr and Mrs H if they couldnt  work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider  is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Lloyds gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Hs needs?
- Did Lloyds give Mr and Mrs H the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mr 
and Mrs H are worse  off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs H say PPI wasnt  discussed  when they took out their mortgage, and that they 
didnt know it had been added to their account. Mr H has told me he had a couple of periods 
off work due to ill health, but that he didnt claim on the policy because he didnt know  he had 
it. Hes also said he overpaid the mortgage so that it was repaid early.  Ive noted everything  
Mr and Mrs H have said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr and Mrs H and 
Lloyds when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events  took place over twenty 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Ref: DRN26148132Ive looked at the mortgage paperwork that Lloyds  has provided. I can see that the loan 
assessment form was completed  to show that PPI and buildings insurance was sold during 
the assessment.
I also note that Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage  application  included  a section that said:
Please tick the boxes  if you have not received information about any of the following:..
Payment Protection  Plus
I cant see that any box was ticked to show that Mr and Mrs H hadnt  received information 
about the PPI.
So on balance, from what Ive seen,  I havent  been  able to safely  conclude that Lloyds didnt  
make Mr and Mrs H aware of the PPI or that it was optional. 
Its possible that Mr and Mrs H may have forgotten they had the cover,  which could explain 
why Mr H didnt claim  on the policy while he was off work sick. 
Lloyds advised  Mr and Mrs H to take out the policy and it doesnt  look like it was unsuitable  
for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
- Mr and Mrs H were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions.
- Mr and Mrs H say they were entitled to sick pay from their employers if they couldnt 
work because of sickness or accident. But the policy  wouldve paid out in addition to 
those benefits and would do so, it seems  for longer.  Mr and Mrs H couldve used  
their employer  benefits to pay for other expenses. So I think Mr and Mrs H wouldve 
had some use for the policy,  despite  their existing  arrangements.  
- Mr and Mrs H werent affected by any of the conditions limiting  the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting  self-employed  people or people  with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover 
I think it unlikely they needed better advice or information  about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated  to Mr and Mrs H 
before they agreed to buy it. But it seems the policy  was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have made a different 
decision if better information about  the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been. But as Ive already  said, Mr and Mrs H werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely  
Mr and Mrs H would  have made a different decision if better information had been provided 
 overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN26148133But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 June  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2614813