K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Halifax has provided me with a sample copy of the credit card application form completed at 
the time.  I think that this is more likely the sort of application that Mrs R had to complete at 
the time of the sale. Mrs R would have had to put a cross  in a box to get the cover.  And if 
Mrs R didnt agree to the cover, the box could have been left blank. Mrs R would have had to 
sign the form to get the credit and in so doing  she would also be agreeing  to whatever had 
been indicated  on the form about whether  she wanted the cover.
From what  we know about how these policies were  sold at the time, and from the sample  
document provided in this case, I think that its more likely that Mrs R would have agreed to 
the cover  and would  have  done so knowing that she had a choice about it. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs R so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  from or limits  to the PPI cover and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover. I say that because whilst Mrs Rs initial  sick pay 
was good it didnt last beyond six months. And Mrs R told us she had no other means she 
could have relied on. The PPI could have paid out for up to 12 months, in the event that Mrs 
R was too ill to work, or if she lost her job. So, as this could have paid out in addition to any 
sick pay Mrs R may have  been entitled  to, I think Mrs R would have found the policy useful.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said but these points dont change my decision.
I have looked  at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given  by 
the adjudicator,  and set out above,  I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Bank  of 
Scotland plc doesnt need to refund  everything Mrs R paid for it. 
But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to give Mrs R back some of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mrs R now Ive issued my final decision, 
if it hasnt done  so already. 
Ref: DRN24305362my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2430536