K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that the compensation Phoenix Life Limited  has paid her for the delays and 
poor service she experienced when arranging her annuity is too low.
background
In early 2018, Ms M contacted Phoenix. She wanted  to discuss  taking her pension benefits. 
Ms M wanted to start receiving an income  from her pension in August 2018.
Phoenix sent information in March and June 2018, setting out the options  available. In late 
July 2018, Ms M contacted Phoenix to discuss arranging an annuity. Ms M was then told 
there were various options available, such as receiving payments in arrears, rather  than in 
advance, which would  slightly increase the payments.  Ms M asked for a new quotation to be 
prepared on this basis.
Upon receiving the new quote  Ms M decided to take tax free cash  of nearly £13,000 and 
purchase a single life annuity, guaranteed for five years, paid quarterly in arrears. 
Unfortunately the quote didn't include a claim form. Ms M says that it was from this point that 
she began  to experience problems. She has explained that she tried to phone Phoenix, but 
had a lot of difficulty getting hold of a representative who was able to discuss her pension.  
Ms M says she had to wait on hold for long periods and was repeatedly told by call handlers 
that they couldn't help her and were unable to transfer her to someone who could. 
Ms M says she was also told to call back on the same  number  she had already dialled. Ms M 
found the process chaotic and stressful.
Ms M was then told that she needed  to speak  to a third party,  that Phoenix would put her in 
touch with, in order  to get a comparison quote. Phoenix explained that this was a regulatory 
requirement to ensure  that Ms M was made aware of options open  to her, before deciding 
whether to go ahead  with a Phoenix  annuity.  
Ms M says she also experienced problems and delays with the third party Phoenix put her in 
touch with. She says it rescheduled  the appointment to discuss  her pension  options without 
telling her. And Ms M says she didnt find the call useful as she had already decided to go 
ahead with the Phoenix annuity.
Following this call Ms M was sent an application  for the Phoenix  annuity, but information on 
the form was incorrect. By the time a corrected form had been sent to Ms M, the original  
annuity rate quoted had expired. The new rate available to Ms M was lower. 
Ms M complained to Phoenix about the very poor service she had received.  
It agreed that the service Ms M had received was not good enough. To put things right it said 
it would  backdate Ms Ms annuity to August 2018 and pay interest  to compensate  Ms M for 
the late payment  of her annuity.  It also offered to pay Ms M £190  for the trouble  and upset 
this matter had caused  her and a further £25 to cover the cost of the phone calls she had 
made trying to get her annuity  set up.
Ms M brought her complaint to this service. She said she didnt feel the offer Phoenix had 
made was adequate for the worry and upset this matter had caused her.
Ref: DRN25807912Ms M also queried the interest Phoenix had paid to compensate her for the late payment of 
her annuity  and lump  sum as she had not received a breakdown of the payments made.
Our investigator said she could see that Ms M had experienced unnecessary delays and 
poor service. She noted that Phoenix had accepted that the service it had provided wasnt  
satisfactory. It had offered  Ms M compensation for the trouble and upset this matter had 
caused. 
Having considered Ms Ms complaint she said felt that the steps Phoenix had taken to put 
matters right were reasonable. And she said she didnt think  it needed  to pay Ms M more 
that it had already paid. 
She noted that it had backdated  Ms Ms annuity to put her back  in the position  she would 
have been in had there  been  no delays. It had also paid Ms M interest  on the lump sum and 
the late annuity payment. Our investigator provided Ms M with a breakdown  of the interest 
payments together with an explanation of how the interest had been calculated.
Ms M was not satisfied with our investigators  response. She said that she was particularly 
concerned that other customers might also experience poor service from Phoenix. Ms M 
said:
Given my own experience I am now left wondering how many other older  people  this 
scenario is happening to. This is one reason why I am still angry & I feel your response is 
inadequate because  you do not appear  to be fully appreciating the scale of the damage  that 
has been done by Phoenix  in my case,  & therefore you are giving them  the idea that they 
can feel free to go on doing this to other people.
Ms M also said she did not feel that the interest she had received  to compensate her for the 
late payment of her lump sum and annuity payment should be considered  compensation: 
In relation to the redress paid for the trouble and upset this matter had caused,  Ms M said:
Given that Phoenix is a professional financial company, the actual compensation payments 
(of £175 & £40) might  be considered adequate for a limited misdemeanour,  some  paperwork 
or other small  non serious technical  error  by such a company. However, given the long 
drawn out muddled handling of my claim,  the delays & the stress  ridden chicane, which  
Phoenix forced me to travel through,  & which negatively impacted my health,  leaving  me 
fatigued & stressed, I think the level of 'compensation' is miniscule. It will also obviously not 
deter Phoenix from treating other perhaps more elderly/ confused customers in such an 
intolerable way.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think Phoenix needs  to do more to resolve Ms Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN25807913It is not in dispute  that Ms M received  very poor service from Phoenix.  What  is in dispute is 
whether the redress  it has paid Ms M is sufficient  for the trouble and upset this matter  has 
caused her.
I am sympathetic to Ms Ms position.  It is clear that she doesnt want other customers to 
experience the same  poor service  that she received. Ms M has also said that she doesnt  
feel this service has done enough to discourage  Phoenix from providing poor service to 
other customers. Ms M said:
I therefore do want you look again  to decide whether your evaluation  of the behaviour of 
Phoenix & the level of 'compensation' they have given in response  is anywhere near 
adequate, & furthermore, whether your response in my case is really going to deter  them in 
future from disadvantaging other customers in a similar way.
This service determines complaints on their individual merits. We dont have the power  to 
fine or take disciplinary action against  financial businesses. That is the role of the industry  
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA). If Ms M would like to pursue the wider  
issues she has raised in her complaint she may wish to contact the FCA directly.
Where we award redress it is to compensate a customer  for the trouble and upset a 
business has caused them. The redress in not intended be a fine  fining and taking action 
against financial businesses for failing to treat customers fairly is part of the FCAs remit.
Having carefully considered this matter, I think the steps Phoenix has taken to put matters 
right for Ms M are fair and reasonable. I dont think it needs to do more. It had paid Ms M 
interest at 8% on her lump sum and late annuity  payment.  I appreciate that Ms M does not 
feel this should  be considered to be compensation. But this interest is intended to 
compensate her for the late payment of her lump sum and annuity payment.
It has also backdated Ms Ms annuity  so that she has not been disadvantaged  by the delays  
it caused. And it has paid her at total of £190  for the trouble  and upset its poor service has 
caused plus a further £25 for the phone calls she made.
I appreciate that Ms M found this matter very worrying, but I think  the steps  Phoenix  has 
taken to put matters  right are fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I 
can reasonably  require it to do more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. I am satisfied that the steps Phoenix Life 
Limited has take to put matters right are fair and reasonable. I dont think  it needs  to do more 
to resolve this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2580791