K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that the Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) did not immediately return  funds 
taken by direct debit (DD) from his account,  when he asked them to do so.
background
Mr M had a DD set up on his account  with Halifax for a monthly payment to a company I 
shall call A. He said he had cancelled  the DD but nevertheless A made a request for 
payment. On the day made their request  under the DD, Mr M contacted Halifax  to ask them  
to return the funds which were showing debited to his account. But Halifax said that as there 
were insufficient funds in the account, it would  automatically be returned  after the 2:30pm cut 
off time.
Mr M said he wanted Halifax  to return the funds immediately  so that he would have access  
to them,  as he did not want to wait until after 2:30pm.  He was also unhappy  that Halifax  told 
him the monies  had actually been  sent to A, when in fact they had not, which  made him feel 
as though he had been lied to.
Halifax said they were  unaware  that Mr M had cancelled his DD, and confirmed that when 
the DD was requested there were insufficient funds in Mr Ms account. But, they said they 
work on the basis that their customers want them to make the payment rather  than return the 
DD unpaid. So when  they receive  a DD request,  it initially shows  on a customers  account as 
funds going out, but, if there  is not enough money  in the account when the decision is taken  
to actually send  the money,  it is likely to then be rejected. They  said at that point a further 
transaction shows on the customers  account showing the payment being returned unpaid.  
However, the decision to actually  pay or reject the payment is made  automatically  and 
happens after a cut off time, which was 2:30pm.
Halifax accepted  the money  had not actually been  sent to A but said they simply did not 
have the ability to re-credit Mr Ms account  immediately as he had asked. The payment was 
returned to Mr Ms account  on the same day and Halifax confirmed they had not made a 
charge for a returned DD. 
Mr M was unhappy with Halifaxs response  and so an adjudicator from this service  looked 
into the complaint  but didnt think Halifax had done anything  wrong.  Mr M disagreed  with our 
adjudicators view and so the matter  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat our adjudicators  
background summary since  it is accurate  and full. My own background summary  has been 
necessarily brief to avoid repetition. So if I havent  mentioned something  it is not that Ive 
ignored it, rather that I think its not relevant.  This approach allows  me to concentrate  upon 
the determinative issues and avoiding becoming distracted by those which  are peripheral.
Ive looked first at the DD request made  by A. That is something  Halifax had no control  over. 
I do not doubt Mr M when  he says he cancelled it with A, but as a fact it appears it wasnt 
since A made the request.  Alternatively,  it may be that A made an incorrect  request. 
Ref: DRN21471992However, there is no evidence that Mr M made Halifax  aware  he had cancelled the DD, and 
so I find that they were  not on notice of the cancellation.
I have also looked  at the terms and conditions governing Mr Ms account which state that 
customers have until 2:30pm to make  sure funds are in the account  in order  to meet  
payments for that day. So I think  it was reasonable for Halifax to think Mr M might well place 
funds into the account in order  to meet the DD.
Our adjudicator found that it was likely  to take longer to try to recall the DD rather  than allow 
it to be automatically returned.  With that in mind I must agree that it would simply have not 
been in Mr Ms interests to attempt the recall  procedure  as this would have led to him being 
out of his funds  for even longer. So Im satisfied that the decision to allow  the DD to be 
automatically rejected  after 2:30pm was reasonable.
Ive considered the incorrect statement  that the funds had actually  left Mr Ms account. I cant 
see that this statement was a deliberate attempt to mislead Mr M, rather it was a clumsy 
expression based upon the account showing that it had been  debited.  So I dont agree that 
Halifax lied to Mr M.
What I need to decide is whether Halifax acted  fairly  and reasonably  in how it dealt with 
Mr M. In my view they acted upon  a properly made DD request and, when  notified  by Mr M 
that it ought not to have been paid, considered that to allow  it to be returned automatically  
was the quicker  option. The account was corrected  within a matter of hours  allowing  Mr M to 
access his funds again that day. That was reasonable.  So I cant  say that Halifax has done 
anything wrong  here. I do accept Mr M was given wrong information but it has not caused 
him any loss, and I think Halifaxs apology was reasonable and sufficient.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision  but Im not satisfied that Halifax  has 
treated him unfairly, so Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2147199