K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr T is unhappy that Lloyds Bank  PLC used money  in his bank account to pay 
a credit card debt. The estate wants Lloyds  to repay  this money along with interest.  This 
complaint is brought on behalf  of the estate by its representative, who Ill call Mr T1.
background
Mr T sadly passed away some years ago. Mr T1 told us that Mr T didnt leave a will or any 
money apart  from what was in his account  with Lloyds.  Shortly  after he passed away, the 
bank released  a large chunk of the money from his account to his estate. This was to pay for 
the funeral expenses. 
Mr T also had a credit card account with Lloyds. At the time of his passing, this had an 
outstanding balance. Nearly 18 months later, this account hadnt  been settled. So Lloyds 
used most  of the money  left in Mr Ts bank account to pay off the outstanding credit  card 
debt. This left a remaining  balance of just under £300 in the bank account.  
Mr T1 complained about this some years  later.  Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. Briefly,  it 
said where a deceased  customer has various products with the bank, any outstanding debts 
are paid off with any available funds. It gave Mr T1 details of how the remaining bank 
account funds  could be released. 
Mr T1 wasnt  happy with this and brought his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked 
into this. In short, he didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong. Mr T1 didnt accept  this. 
So this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
First, I want to point  out that in general  terms, we cant usually look at complaints about 
events that are more  than six years old, unless the complainant only found out about the 
issue within the past three years.  The adjudicator thought that was the case  here, so Lloyds 
gave its consent  for us to look at the complaint. 
Its important that I make  it clear  that it is the estate of Mr T who is Lloyds customer  here, 
not Mr T1. It is the estate that is eligible to complain. Mr T1 represents the estate. Hes not 
eligible to complain in his own right about Mr Ts accounts. Hes complaining on behalf of the 
estate. 
This in turn also means  that I can only look at how the estate of Mr T has been  affected by 
the actions of the bank, not Mr T1 personally.  Similarly, I can only look at financial losses, if 
there are any, which were  experienced by the estate,  not Mr T1  hes not the account  
holder in question here. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for Mr Ts bank  account. I can see these clearly set 
out that where a debt is overdue  for payment, as Mr Ts credit card account  was, the bank 
can use any money in any of his accounts, such as his bank account,  to settle the 
outstanding debt. Thats what the bank  did here.  
Ref: DRN29271952I would point out that, due to Mr T having passed  away some years  ago, Lloyds no longer 
has copies of any letters it sent to the representatives of his estate at that time. But its clear 
to me that the bank was in touch with a representative. I say this because I can see Lloyds 
released a large  chunk  of money  from the bank account to pay Mr Ts funeral  expenses.  
Its not clear to me why any representative  of the estate didnt deal with the remaining 
balance in the bank account,  or the credit card debt, in the months following Mr Ts passing.  
Mr T1 told us he had to spend  his own money  paying off Mr Ts priority  debts.
Im not sure why Mr T1 needed to do this. If these were Mr Ts debts, Mr T1 wasnt liable for 
them - the estate of Mr T was. Mr T1 hasnt given  us any details  of what  these priority debts 
were, or how much they were for.
Theres nothing in the available evidence to show  Lloyds knew,  or should  reasonably  have 
known, about  any priority  debts that Mr T might  have had. So, when his credit card account  
still had an outstanding balance nearly  18 months after his passing, Im satisfied it was fair 
and reasonable for Lloyds to use the money  in his bank account to settle  this debt,  as set out 
in the account terms and conditions. 
Finally, I can see the bank has told Mr T1 what he needs to do to get the remaining money in 
Mr Ts bank  account released. Again, I think this is fair and reasonable. 
In summary,  given the circumstances outlined above, theres  no basis  for me to tell Lloyds  to 
refund anything to the estate of Mr T in relation to the money used to clear the credit card 
debt.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2927195