K822xcomplaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the increases in premiums on her home insurance with St Andrews 
Insurance Plc (StAIP).
Mrs D has been represented throughout her complaint by Mr D.
background 
Mrs D held three home insurance policies over the years. Mrs D held a policy  in the 1990s 
that ran until it was cancelled in 2003. The second policy  ran from 2003 until it was cancelled 
in 2009. And the last policy ran from 2009  until 2018.
The policies were  taken  out through Bank H, but the insurer  of the policies was StAIP. As 
StAIP was the insurer, it was responsible for setting  the price and is therefore responsible for 
this complaint.
Mrs D chose not to renew her policy in 2018. Mrs D obtained cheaper alternative  quotes for 
her home insurance.
Unhappy, Mrs D complained to StAIP. Mrs D says she was paying  too much  for something 
she hadnt ever needed  to use. Mrs D thought she should be given  a refund of what she had 
paid towards her policy.
StAIP looked into Mrs Ds concerns. Broadly summarised it said that the premiums charged 
were correct. And while Mrs D hadnt claimed  under her policy  it explained that it didnt mean 
that she would be entitled to a refund. But StAIP recognised  that some of its communication  
following a call in June  2018 wasnt as clear as it could  have  been  and offered £50 for any 
trouble this caused.
Unhappy with StAIPs response, Mrs D referred the matter to our service. 
While the complaint was with our service, as a gesture of goodwill, StAIP  offered to refund 
some of the cost of the insurance to resolve the complaint.
StAIP offered to refund to Mrs D the amount  paid above the 2016 premium from 2017  up 
until 2018 (when the policy was cancelled).  This totalled £34.59.  It also explained it would 
include additional compensation set at 8% simple  interest per year  to compensate Mrs D 
for being out of pocket of that money. And finally, it also offered an additional  £100  as 
compensation for the trouble Mrs D had been caused.  
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She explained that we couldnt look into 
Mrs Ds concerns about the two earlier policies as there are time limits that apply about 
when a complaint  should  be brought to us, and it had been done  too late. But she concluded 
that we could look into the last policy taken out in November  2009.
Having looked  at StAIPs offer for the last policy, she thought it was a fair way to resolve 
things.
Mrs D responded saying that StAIPs  offer of compensation for the last policy  wasnt  enough.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN26609752my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator explained why only the last policy could  be looked into by this service and, 
from Mrs Ds response to our investigators assessment, it seems she accepts this. So my 
decision is only about the policy taken out in 2009.  Mrs D is unhappy with the offer of 
compensation for this policy, so Ill be deciding if it is fair and reasonable.
Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I agree  with our investigator. I think  StAIPs  
offer of compensation is fair. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs D, so Id like 
to explain why.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
But I can look at whether StAIP treated Mrs D fairly  throughout  the time she held her home 
insurance policy with it. If I find that StAIP hasnt  treated Mrs D fairly,  I will look to see what  
compensation would be fair and, in this case, whether I think what StAIP has offered is fair.
When Mrs D took out her policy in 2009, it cost £328.77 for the year. By 2018, the insurance 
cost £594.21.  Mrs Ds policy did increase in cost over the years  so Ive looked to see what 
happened.
Mrs Ds policy automatically renewed  each year. With automatic renewals there is a chance 
that if a consumer doesnt engage with the renewal process or shop around, they can find 
they are paying  much  more for their cover than a new customer.  
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the consumer wasnt  engaging  with the renewals  
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly   
and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because  they didnt engage  with the cost. 
When Mrs D took out her policy it included an introductory discount. It isnt uncommon  for 
insurers to initially price  a policy  at a lower  cost than the true cost associated with the risk of 
insuring a property. This is to attract new customers.  Insurers aim to keep  the consumer and 
recoup that cost over the subsequent years. I dont think  this unfair.
With Mrs Ds policy,  StAIP says the gradual increases in the premiums  in the early years 
were due to the initial discount being  recouped and the increases in insurance premium  tax. 
So while the premiums increased, it wasnt because Mrs D wasnt engaging  with the cost.
And, importantly, in the early years Mrs D held her policy, StAIP  wouldnt have been aware 
that she wasnt engaging with her renewals  that wouldnt have been known for some 
years. 
Ref: DRN26609753But by 2016s  renewal,  StAIP had recouped  the initial discount that had been  applied and it 
should have known Mrs D wasnt engaging.  But Mrs Ds premium continued to increase 
each year and StAIP  hasnt shown there were any risk related reasons for this.
StAIP has offered to refund some of the cost of the insurance premiums Mrs D paid from 
2017 up until the policy was cancelled in November 2018. Essentially, its frozen her 
premium at the 2016 price, which makes sure she hasnt  lost out if StAIP  did increase the 
premium unfairly from this point on. I think this is fair.
I appreciate that Mrs D ultimately  obtained  alternative insurance for a lot less and feels this 
shows she was overcharged by StAIP. 
As explained earlier, policies taken out now often come with a significant  initial  discount,  with 
insurers aiming to keep the consumer and recoup the discount over the following years. 
Consumers can also choose from various levels of cover and can also choose what limits 
and excesses they wish to have. 
More recently, online  practices and comparison  websites have meant  ever more competitive 
prices. And some consumers  can now manage  their policies online meaning less 
administrative costs to insurers   with the resulting savings being applied to reduce the cost 
a consumer pays for cover.
Insurers can also have a different perception of the risk a consumer presents  and again 
the cost between insurers can be different based  on that perceived risk.
These things combined mean that the cost of insurance can be markedly different  in price for 
a policy  taken out now, compared  to one taken out many years  ago. The cost of insurance 
taken out now can also vary significantly from policy to policy and insurer  to insurer.
So while Mrs D has obtained a policy for less now, for the reasons explained above, I dont 
think it would  be fair to compare the cost of that recent policy with the policy  taken and held 
for many years with StAIP.
I note Mrs Ds main  complaint point is that she feels because she never claimed under her 
policy, she should get a refund of what she paid. But that isnt how insurance policies work. 
When someone buys a policy they make  regular payments to the insurer. If they make a 
claim the insurer will pay out for the loss that is covered  under the policy.
If they dont make a claim, they wont  get their money back;  instead  it is pooled with the 
premiums of other policyholders who have taken out insurance with the same  insurance 
company. If they make a claim the money comes  from the pool of policyholders premiums.
If everyone who didnt claim got their money  back, then those that claimed  would actually be 
paying the full cost of any loss themselves, which is the opposite  of what insurance is. I 
appreciate paying for something  that wasnt ever needed can be frustrating. But insurance is 
there to provide  protection  or peace of mind  that the cost of any unexpected  loss will be 
covered. 
Ref: DRN26609754Finally I note StAIP offered £50 for the confusion that stemmed from a call Mrs D had in 
June 2018 about a £45.66 deduction in the annual  premium which was later incorrectly  
referred to as a refund  in a follow up letter. £50 compensation seems a fair amount to 
resolve the poor communication.  I believe this was paid directly  to Mrs Ds bank  account.  I 
make no further award for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, St Andrews Insurance Plcs  offer to refund some of the costs 
of Mrs Ds home insurance policy from 2017  until the policy was cancelled is fair.
St Andrews  Insurance Plc should also calculate the additional compensation (set at 8% 
simple interest per year)  owed to Mrs D for being out of pocket of that money.
St Andrews  Insurance Plcs further  additional  compensation offer of £100 for the trouble 
caused to Mrs D is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2660975