K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC have refused to initiate  a 
chargeback for payments  made to a holiday club membership.
background
In early 2011 Mr and Mrs B were  sold a holiday club membership for around £12,000. An 
agreement was also reached that they would take ownership of their old timeshare in 
exchange. £2000 was paid using a Barclays debit card and a further  payment  was made by 
bank transfer. They  say the sale was completed  under  high-pressure sales techniques  and 
they were persuaded to go ahead with the purchase.
Once Mr and Mrs B became members they experienced numerous difficulties in using the 
services sold to them. Additionally, the company had failed to release Mr and Mrs B from 
their previous timeshare  as agreed and they remained liable  for the ongoing costs  of that 
timeshare.
Mr and Mrs B say that many  other  people had experienced difficulties with the company and 
that the directors were  being prosecuted in the criminal  courts for misleading people.
Mr and Mrs B asked  Barclays  for a refund by way of chargeback in July 2018. Barclays  
responded saying the chargeback could not be initiated as more than 540 days  had passed 
since the payment  was made.
Our investigator looked into this and found  that due to the claim being  made  for the 
chargeback over the 540 days limit Barclays hadnt  done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators  view and the matter has been passed to me 
for a decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is the process by which card payment disputes are resolved between card 
issuer and merchants. The rules of the chargeback scheme, in this particular case, are set 
by Visa.  There are strict rules on when the card issuer, Barclays,  are allowed to initiate a 
chargeback.
They say that a chargeback has to be initiated  within 120 days from when the payment was 
made or 120 days from the last date the cardholder expected to receive the merchandise or 
services. It goes  on to say the chargeback  should not be initiated  if more than 540 days  has 
passed since the payment was made. 
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to Barclays around 7 years after the transaction and 
therefore outside the time set by Visa to issue a chargeback under the card scheme.
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs B have been victim of a scam I cannot consider the actions of 
the holiday club in my decision, only what Barclays have done. As Barclays have been 
informed of a dispute  more than 540 days after the payment was made they were unable to 
help.
Ref: DRN20238332Although I can appreciate  the reasons why Mr and Mrs B did not approach Barclays  sooner, 
Barclays are unable  to circumvent the rules  set up by Visa. For these reasons I dont think 
Barclays have done anything wrong and cant fairly  say that Barclays  should be held 
responsible for giving them a refund.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Stephen Westlake
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2023833