K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Madison CF UK Limited  trading as 118118 Money (MCF) lent to him 
in an irresponsible  manner.
background
Mr W was given a single  loan by MCF. He borrowed £2,250 in July 2018  and agreed to 
repay the loan in 18 monthly instalments. Mr W actually repaid the whole loan less than two 
months later.
Mr Ws complaint  has been assessed  by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the checks 
MCF had done before agreeing the loan had been proportionate. But he thought that the 
results of those checks should  have  led MCF to conclude that Mr W was facing  serious 
problems managing his money  and would be unlikely to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner. So he didnt  think the loan should  have  been agreed  and he asked MCF to pay 
Mr W some  compensation.
Disappointingly MCF didnt respond  to that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt  been  
resolved informally, it has been  passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last 
stage of our process.  If Mr W accepts my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Ws complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time MCF  gave  this loan to Mr W required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so MCF  had to think  about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr W. In practice  
this meant  that MCF had to ensure  that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr W undue  
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for MCF to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr W. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN25496742the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether MCF did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr W.
MCF gathered some information from Mr W before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess how much 
he was repaying  to other creditors  and how hed managed credit in the past.
Mr W was entering  into a significant commitment with MCF.  He would need to make  monthly  
repayments for a period of 18 months.  So I would expect that MCF  would want to gather, 
and independently check, some detailed information  about  Mr Ws financial circumstances 
before it agreed  to lend to him. By asking  Mr W for information about his disposable income, 
and using a credit check to further verify  the state  of his finances,  I think  MCF could form a 
reasonable picture of whether Mr W could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
I think the checks MCF did were  proportionate.  
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information  that is shown by those checks.  In some cases that 
might lead a lender to request further information from the consumer, or seek  other 
independent evidence. Or in some  cases it might result in a lender  deciding not to offer a 
loan at all. And that is what I think should  have  happened  when  Mr W made  his loan 
application.
Mr W had told MCF  that he wanted the loan to consolidate some other debts.  So I dont think  
it should come as a surprise that Mr Ws credit  file showed that he was borrowing from a 
number of other lenders. But that borrowing had been  ongoing  for some  time. In the past six 
months he had opened  24 new accounts. And in the past year he had settled over thirty 
separate loans.  I appreciate that the credit  check didnt show any evidence  of late or missed 
payments  but I dont think that should  lead to a conclusion  that the many repayments  
being made by Mr W were being made  sustainably. In fact I think the scale of his borrowing 
might reasonably have  led to the opposite conclusion.
Mr Ws credit file also appears  to show evidence of a failed consolidation attempt  just a 
month earlier. At that time hed taken a loan, and appears to have used some of the 
proceeds to repay other outstanding short-term loans. But in the weeks  that followed hed 
again taken a number of new loans.  The earlier  consolidation loan was much  larger  than the 
debts that had been repaid. That might  suggest that Mr W had other demands on his money,  
or that he had other debts that werent  showing on his credit  file.
In circumstances  such as these, where  a consumer was asking for a loan to consolidate 
other debts,  I think the question that MCF needed  to ask itself was whether agreeing the 
loan would likely improve, or harm, the consumers  financial  situation. Here, I dont think  MCF  
Ref: DRN25496743could reasonably conclude, with any degree of confidence, that its loan would place Mr W 
into a better  financial position. I think the clear history of the problems he faced with 
managing his money should have led the lender to conclude it was unlikely that Mr W would 
be able to repay the additional borrowing in a sustainable manner.
So, in summary,  I think the checks MCF did should  have led the lender  to a conclusion  that it 
was unlikely that Mr W would be able to afford to repay any new borrowing in a sustainable  
manner. So I dont  think MCF should  have agreed to give this loan to Mr W, and as a result  it 
needs to pay him some  compensation.
putting things right
I dont think MCF should have agreed  to lend to Mr W in July 2018. So, for that loan, MCF  
should;
refund  all the interest and charges Mr W paid on the loan 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ws credit  file in relation  to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MCF to take off tax from this interest.  MCF must give 
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2549674