K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that a car she has financed through an agreement with Black Horse 
Limited (Black Horse) is not of satisfactory  quality. She wants them  to allow  her to reject it 
and terminate her finance  agreement.
background
In July 2018 Mrs M took receipt of a new car. She financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement but in December 2018  she complained  to Black  Horse about several issues with 
the car.
The issues  were resolved in January 2019 but one issue remained.  Mrs Ms phone wouldnt  
pair with the cars Bluetooth  system.  So she complained to Black  Horse and she said she 
wanted them  to take the car back as it wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Black Horse  said the phone wouldnt pair because the software on Mrs Ms phone had been 
updated and the car manufacturer hadnt  yet upgraded  its software  to accommodate  the 
change. They explained that if Mrs M reverted to older software on her phone it would pair 
successfully. But they didnt think they could  be held responsible  for the delay in the 
manufacturers update  and they noted  that Mrs M had received £500 from the manufacturer 
in recognition of the connectivity  issues.
Mrs M was disappointed  with Black Horses  response so she referred her complaint to this 
service and our investigator provided her opinion. She didnt think  it would be fair to hold 
Black Horse  responsible for an issue they had no control over and she noted that the 
problem had now been resolved so she didnt think it was a reason for Mrs M to be allowed 
to reject the car. She thought it was the manufacturers responsibility  to resolve the issue  
and as Mrs M had been suitably compensated by them she thought that seemed  a 
reasonable resolution. She did note that Black Horse had offered Mrs M guidance to fix the 
problem by downgrading her software  and she thought  the £50 theyd offered in recognition 
of the inconvenience caused  was sufficient in the circumstances.
But Mrs M disagreed and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs M acquired  her car under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse  are 
Ref: DRN21575822responsible. I take account of relevant law when deciding  what is fair and reasonable. On 
this basis if I thought the car was faulty  when supplied, Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask 
Black Horse  to put this right.  
But Black Horses responsibility for the car is not unlimited.  Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Phone software is regularly updated and it seems reasonable to suggest  that, whilst  
manufacturers will try to respond  quickly to these updates, there may be times  when  the 
updates are significant and this affects connectivity.  I think its fair to say that was the case  
here. Mrs M didnt complain to Black Horse until shed had the car for five months  so it 
seems likely the phone was connecting initially and the dealership have  confirmed that it 
was. The problem appears to have occurred  when Mrs M subsequently upgraded her phone 
software. Ive seen that the first software upgrade was in October 2018 and there were 
additional ones  in late October  and in December. So the car was connecting satisfactorily at 
the point of supply and thats the point at which Black Horses  responsibility ends. The 
subsequent connectivity failure wasnt of their doing.  It was due to a change out of their 
control and not of their making   the software  upgrade. And Black Horse explained that if 
Mrs M reverted to the software she had on the phone at the point of supply,  the phone  would  
connect.
So Im not persuaded that there was anything wrong with the cars phone  connectivity at the 
point of supply  and I therefore  dont  think it would be reasonable to ask Black Horse to take 
any further action.
I note that Mrs Ms phone is now connecting properly;  that the manufacturer  has paid her 
£500 in compensation and that Black Horse has agreed to pay her £50. I think  this sounds 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ive also noted  that Mrs M initially explained  that she had other  issues in December 2018.  
These included  problems with the parking camera; the satellite navigation system failing on 
occasion and a rattle from the dashboard. It appears that these issues are now resolved. 
The relevant  legislation  allows the business  an opportunity to repair the car in such 
circumstances and as that repair appears  to have been successful Im persuaded that Black 
Horse need take no further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2157582