K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC debited his account  with two card 
payments totalling  £22.45 which he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
background
Mr B said he has no knowledge of two payments made to another  business that appears to 
be a public house which is part of a chain. The payments  were  made  on 23 March  2018 at 
22.14pm for £10.55 and 23.51pm  for £11.90, and amounted to £22.45. He said he has never  
been to this establishment, though he couldnt remember exactly where he was on 23 March 
due to the passage of time. Mr B said he doesnt recall his card being out of his possession 
during this period. 
Tesco investigated and decided not to refund  the disputed transactions. It said there was no 
evidence of fraudulent activity and they felt Mr B had authorised the payments because:  
the payments  were  made using the genuine  card and the correct  PIN  and 
Mr B hasnt  provided an explanation as to how someone other than him would know 
his PIN code or have his card
Mr B confirmed  he had the card after the transactions took place 
Tesco told Mr B that sometimes businesses pass on payment terminals,  so it is possible that 
the name on the statement doesnt match the name of the establishment  he may have made 
the payments  in. Mr B is unhappy about this as he feels this leaves the system open to fraud  
and money laundering.
Mr B was unhappy with Tescos response and so he referred  his complaint to us. An 
investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint but they didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
They felt on balance it was most  likely Mr B authorised the transactions  as the genuine card 
and PIN were used,  and the card was in Mr Bs possession, so they couldnt  see how it 
could be anyone else. He also explained that Tesco didnt own the payment  terminal,  nor 
would they have control of it being passed between businesses. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion   he didnt feel Tesco had provided conclusive 
proof that he made the payments. He also highlighted that given how much  he spent each 
month, this was a small amount of money to him so he wouldnt dispute  it if he made the 
transactions. He also reiterated his concerns around  the safety of recycling payment 
terminals. Because Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion the complaint has been  
passed to me to consider.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons.
Generally, Tesco can hold Mr B liable for the disputed transactions  if the evidence  suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself. Having reviewed 
Tescos technical evidence Im satisfied  that Mr Bs genuine card and PIN were  used to 
make the disputed transactions. I appreciate Mr B feels strongly that the systems can be 
compromised but Ive not seen any evidence of that here and Im not persuaded thats  the 
Ref: DRN27200332most likely explanation for what happened. But according to the relevant regulations,  this 
alone is insufficient to enable Tesco to hold him liable. So I need to consider whether  I think 
the evidence shows it is more likely than not that he consented to the payments being made. 
Having reviewed the evidence, I think its reasonable for Tesco  to conclude  that Mr B 
authorised the transactions. This is because: 
The disputed transactions were made  using Mr Bs genuine card, but Mr B said he 
doesnt recall not having his card in his possession.  Whilst I accept its possible,  Im 
not persuaded its the most likely  explanation here that an unknown third party  took 
Mr Bs card and then returned it to him and either  kept it for an hour and a half to 
make the two transactions or used it and replaced it twice in that time, all without him 
noticing.
I say this because  it also seems unusual that a third party,  having  managed  to gain 
Mr Bs card and PIN would only make two small transactions and then risk returning  
the card to Mr B, rather than keep the card to make further transactions  or make the 
most use out of having both the card and PIN
Mr Bs PIN was used  to complete the transactions, and he told us that there was no 
way this could  have been compromised  as he doesnt keep a record of it and hasnt 
shared it with anyone. There also doesnt  appear  to be any genuine transactions  on 
the same  day where Mr Bs PIN couldve potentially been  observed by a third party. 
So overall Im persuaded theres no explanation how a third party  couldve obtained 
Mr Bs PIN in order  to carry out these transactions.
I think its possible  Mr  B says he wasnt in the public house noted on his statement 
on the 23 March.  However, I think its possible the card terminal was still registered  to 
the public  house  on the statement, whilst  it was being used in another establishment. 
The public house was part of a chain and the chain has various public houses in the 
area in which  Mr B lives. So its possible that they recycled the terminal  from another 
public house and so the name  of the establishment that appears  on Mr Bs statement 
may not be where these transactions took place  which  is why he doesnt recognise 
the payment
Overall Im persuaded  that Mr B made  these  transactions  but didnt recognise  the name of 
the merchant  that appeared  on his statement.  I think  thats more  likely than someone acting 
without his authority  used  his card to make  these payments. I therefore think Tesco hasnt 
acted incorrectly by debiting Mr Bs account  for these transactions.
Ive considered Mr Bs complaint about the risk of fraud or money laundering due to payment 
terminals being passed between businesses. The terminal would be issued to the merchant 
under a separate agreement and this isnt something Tesco is a party to, so I dont think 
Tesco is responsible  for the merchants actions here. 
Ref: DRN27200333my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Katherine Jones
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2720033