K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about charges that were applied by Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading  as Skoda Finance at the end of a hire agreement. He wants the charges to 
be waived.
background
Mr B tells us hes been invoiced  for excess mileage and refurbishment charges at the end of 
his three  year hire agreement. He doesnt think the charges  have been applied  fairly. He 
says the vehicle was delivered  to him with 527 miles already  recorded  on the odometer. He 
feels that as he didnt exceed  the 45,000 allowance after the delivery he doesnt think  the 
excess should apply.  And he feels the damage  charges  are simply wear and tear. Or in the 
case of the front bumper were caused  by a third party without his knowledge.
Skoda told us that at the end of the hire term the vehicle had been inspected by a trained 
inspector. This had been carried out in accordance with the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing  
Association (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guide. It said the damage fell outside these 
guidelines and was chargeable. It stated that Mr B had arranged  for the vehicle to be 
delivered by a third party broker.  And that the excess mileage charges had been applied  in 
line with the terms  and conditions.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said the agreement 
had been for 45,000 miles with any excess above  this chargeable. Hed seen the odometer 
reading on the date of the inspection was 45,444  miles. He felt that if Mr B hadnt  had the 
vehicle delivered  then the only alternative  wouldve been to collect it himself. And as this 
also required  the vehicle  to be driven from the dealers to his home the same mileage 
wouldve been recorded.
Our investigator said hed seen pictures  of the damage. And these showed that there  were  
scratches to both bumpers that exceeded  the BVRLA guidelines. And he said the seat was 
scratched or torn. As this damage also fell outside  the guidelines he didnt think  Skoda had 
done anything  wrong in applying the charges.
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve  this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand it would  be disappointing for Mr B to find he was being  charged for items he 
didnt think were his responsibility.  And that he felt the vehicle had been returned  in good 
condition relative  to the period of hire.
Where theres a dispute of fact Im required to reach  my conclusions  on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ref: DRN29833432Dealing with the mileage theres  no doubt  the recorded  mileage  at the time of the inspection 
was 45,444. Thats above the 45,000 which is the mileage allowance  on the agreement. 
After that an excess mileage charge is payable. I agree with our investigator that if Mr B had 
collected the vehicle the mileage wouldve increased in just the same  way as occurred with 
the delivery service.  I think  Skoda is entitled  to charge the excess  mileage in accordance  
with the terms and conditions of the agreement.
Ive viewed good quality colour photographs of the damaged areas. The images are clear  
and the damage  is plain to see. Even if the damage  to the front bumper was caused  by a 
third party that doesnt  alter things. Its the degree of the damage - not how it came  about - 
which determines if its chargeable. The investigator  previously set out the precise details of 
the BVRLA guidelines in relation to these items. I find the damage  is outside these 
guidelines and its fair for Skoda to apply the charges. Theres  no plausible information to 
say that manufacturing defects - and Im not finding  there were any - made  this vehicle more 
susceptible to damage than any other vehicle.
The charges  themselves  are in line with wider  industry standards.  And its not a requirement 
that the damage is actually repaired. Its sufficient  that damage  outside the fair wear and tear 
guidelines is likely to adversely affect the value of a vehicle when it is sold. And Skoda  is 
entitled to be compensated for this loss.
In summary,  Im satisfied  the vehicle was properly  examined and that damage charges were  
assessed in accordance with the relevant BVRLA standards.  The excess  mileage charges  
were applied in accordance  with the terms and conditions of the hire agreement.  
Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2983343