K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that he was mis-sold  a finance agreement with FirstRand Bank Limited 
(trading as Motonovo).
background
In March 2015 Mr C was supplied with a used car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with Motonovo. The price  of the car was £17,480. Mr C paid a deposit  of £6,680 
along with a part exchange  of £800. The credit agreement was for £10,000 with a  total 
amount repayable of £22,883.40 over a term of 60 months.
Mr C says the agreement  was mis-sold. He says the first time the dealership  submitted  his 
application for finance it was rejected. He doesnt  think the dealership  shouldve  
recommended that he enter into the agreement. 
Mr C also says that no-one explained  the terms and conditions of the agreement  to him or 
made him aware of the impact on his ability to obtain credit.
Mr C is unhappy that Motonovo  cant locate the call between the dealership and the 
underwriter. He wants an apology for the service  provided together  with compensation. He 
also wants all adverse  information relating to the agreement removed from his credit  file.
In its final response,  Motonovo said it had been  unable to locate the call but that the contents 
wouldntve had any effect on whether Mr C met the lending criteria.  It also said that Mr C 
had signed the finance agreement and in doing so had confirmed that he had read, 
understood and agreed to the terms.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think  there  was enough  evidence  to 
show that the dealership mis-sold  the agreement. She was satisfied that Mr C had been  
provided with all of the necessary information about  the agreement.
Mr C didnt agree. He felt that the call recording had been deleted  deliberately.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has said that the agreement was mis-sold. In order for me to uphold this complaint  I 
would need to be satisfied that Mr C was misled about a key feature of the finance 
agreement. 
Mr C entered into the loan agreement at the dealership. He says his first application was 
rejected but the second was approved  when  the dealership spoke to the underwriter. Mr C 
says the call will prove that he shouldntve been given the loan.
Motonovo hasnt  been able to provide the call recording so I havent  been  able to listen  to 
the conversation  between  the dealership and the underwriter. The underwriter has said that 
the first application was declined because Mr C didnt meet the lending  criteria. The second 
application was proposed  with a much larger deposit  of £6680, which  decreased the loan 
amount to £10,000.  Mr C met the lending criteria  for this loan and it was automatically 
Ref: DRN28876662accepted. Theres  no evidence that the information provided to the underwriter by the 
dealership was inaccurate.
Because I cant be certain of exactly what was discussed when Mr C visited the dealership, 
Ive looked at the contemporaneous documentation to decide whats most likely to have 
happened.
The hire purchase agreement sets out all of the key information  about the loan, including the 
amount of credit, the interest rate, the monthly  payments,  the term and the total amount 
repayable. I can see that Mr C has signed the agreement and in doing so, hes declared  that 
hes read and understood the agreement. Im satisfied that all of the necessary information 
about the agreement was provided to Mr C.
I can also see that Mr C signed a pre-contract checklist. In doing  so, hes confirmed that the 
agreement has been explained to him. I dont think Mr C wouldve signed the agreement or 
the pre contract  documents if he hadnt wanted to enter into the agreement,  or if he didnt 
think the terms and conditions had been  explained  to him. So I think its more likely  than not 
that the salesman at the dealership went through  the agreement with Mr C.
On balance, Im unable to find any evidence that the dealership mis-led Mr C about the 
agreement.
I dont think it matters  that the call recording isnt available  because  the weight of 
documentary evidence  suggests that the key features and the terms and conditions  of the 
agreement were made very clear to Mr C.
I understand that Mr C is frustrated that the call recording isnt available.  Im not persuaded 
that this is a deliberate attempt by Motonovo to conceal anything. I dont think  the content of 
the call would change  my view on whether  the agreement was mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2887666