K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that National Westminster Bank Plc delayed issuing an audit  letter for his 
business and did not provide him with a report about why.
background
Mr V needed  an audit letter from NatWest as part of an application  to renew a professional 
certificate. This would allow him to continue to operate his professional business. The audit 
letter was requested by his accountants on 13 February 2018. It was chased  up and Mr V 
also called  his relationship manager  about this. It was not received until 27 April 2018 just 
before his deadline. NatWest offered to pay for his call costs  of £32.40, time spent of £50 
and inconvenience  of £250. Mr V did not accept this offer and complains  that the manager 
also told him he would be receiving a report about what  happened.
The adjudicator did not recommend that NatWest do anything  more. He said that it had 
made a reasonable offer to settle  the complaint. And that we would not have expected  
NatWest to produce a report into what happened for Mr V. It had asked him to get in contact  
to discuss any detriment  that had followed from this part of his complaint and he had not 
done so.
Mr V did not agree  and said that NatWest  had not behaved reasonably. It showed a total 
lack of response to his requests. In his view it was reckless and grossly  negligent.  The 
emails he has provided demonstrate this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest accepted in its final response letter dated 27 April 2018 to Mr V that the delay was 
due to an error on their side and it apologised. It had spoken to Mr V to assess  the impact 
for him. And that was the basis for its offer.
I am not clear if and when Mr V received that final response letter. Because  Ive seen a 
series of subsequent  emails between him and the branch relationship manager. For example 
on 3 May 2018  Mr V wrote I was told that the offer of £250 compensation plus expenses  of 
[] approximately £40 was available and this would be confirmed to me. Nothing again.  The 
manager says he will refund the audit  fees immediately and then specifically refers to a 
report to be sent over. When Mr V referred  his complaint to this service we recorded  that he 
had told us he had not had a final response. That was followed by NatWest  issuing a further 
final response dated 20 September 2018 apologising for the confusion  over the report.  And 
asking him to contact  it if this had caused him detriment. Mr V said that as he had already 
referred his complaint to this service  he did not do so. 
I think that this exchange  of emails underlines the poor service that Mr V received from 
NatWest. The issuing  of audit letters is dealt with by a central  team and that team did not 
start to address the request until 19 April 2018. Thats  despite  both Mr V and his accountants  
contacting that same  relationship manager  on a number of occasions.
Mr V was able to continue  to trade  and so there  was no financial loss. I sense he wants  a 
punitive award against NatWest. But we dont made awards to punish businesses.  Awards  
Ref: DRN25956352are based  on the actual  impact and the distress and inconvenience caused. NatWest  has 
offered to cover the telephone costs involved.  I need  to decide whether the other elements of 
the award are fair. To do that Ive taken account of our published  guidelines and applied my 
own judgement. Having done  so I think that the offer is a reasonable one given what I agree 
was a lack of response by NatWest to Mr Vs requests. And I also think this reflects that 
NatWest created confusion about what Mr V would receive to help him decide  whether and 
how to pursue his complaint further. I think it likely  that the report  was only ever going to be 
the final response letter which did admit the mistake. And I wouldnt have expected NatWest 
to provide anything  else.
So Im afraid  that I wont be asking  NatWest to do more than it has already offered to.
my final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £332.40  to settle  the 
complaint and I think that this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  So my decision is that 
National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay Mr V £332.40.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2595635