K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that Provident  Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) lent 
money to him that he couldnt afford to repay.
Background
Based on the information provided, Mr M entered into six loans with Satsuma Loans  
between May 2015 and November 2017.
Loan Amount Date Term Repaid
1 £100 May 2015 3 months Aug 2015
2 £140 Jan 2016 21 weeks June 2016
3 £100 Mar 2017 3 months May 2017
4 £250 May 2017 6 months Nov 2017
5 £650 Jul 2017 6 months Outstanding
6 £1,000 Nov 2017 12 months Outstanding
Mr M says that the lending was irresponsible. He says he was borrowing increasing amounts  
over longer  periods of time and that had proper checks been carried out his credit file would  
have shown he was in financial difficulty. He says he missed payments  due under the loans 
but Satsuma Loans  kept lending to him.
Satsuma Loans  says that there were no missed  payments or signs of financial difficulties 
when loans one, three and four were  in place. It says that Mr M missed payments on his 
second loan but reasons were provided  for this and support was given. It says that before 
the loans were provided information was gathered and checks  carried  out which supported  
the loans being affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He noted that there were breaks in the lending 
which resulted in different lending chains. He didnt think that Satsuma Loans was required 
to carry out the level of checks that would have shown the loans were  unsustainable or that 
further verification  of the information was required. He also didnt think  that the pattern of 
borrowing itself should have shown Satsuma Loans  that Mr M was experiencing financial 
difficulties.
Mr M didnt  accept our adjudicators view. 
My findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma Loans  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr M could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN22620112But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma Loans should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma Loans was required to 
establish whether  Mr M could sustainably repay  his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Mr Ms first loan was for £100 repayable over three months. Given this was his first loan and 
the repayment amounts were low compared to his income I think  the checks carried  out 
before this loan was provided were proportionate.  These didnt raise concerns about  the 
affordability of the loan.  I have looked  at the information gathered  through  the credit  check  
and I dont think that this raised concerns that would have required further  questions  to be 
asked. Given this I find it reasonable this loan was provided.
Mr M repaid his first loan and then didnt take out a second loan for five months.  Again  I find 
the checks carried out before this loan was provided  were  proportionate given the size of the 
repayments compared to Mr Ms income. As these checks didnt raise concerns I do not find 
I can say that it was wrong  to provide this loan.
There was then a substantial break  in lending and Mr M didnt take out his third loan until 
around nine months  after the second  had been  repaid. So while I note Mr M had missed 
payments on his second loan, given the break  I find that the third loan forms part of a new 
lending chain.
Considering loans three and four as the first and second loans in a new lending chain, I find 
that the checks carried out before  the loans were provided were proportionate. The loan 
repayments were relatively  small compared  to Mr Ms income and based on the information  
Ref: DRN22620113he had provided  I find it reasonable that these  loans were considered affordable.  Credit 
checks were carried  out but I dont  find that these raised issues that would have required 
further checks to take place.
The next loan was for a larger amount (£650). It was repayable over 12 months which meant  
the monthly repayment amounts were  around  £107.  However, Mr Ms previous loan was still 
outstanding at the time of this loan which means  it was necessary to assess his repayments 
based on the total due under  both loans. However,  I dont  think  that the size of the combined 
repayments compared to Mr Ms income meant  that further checks were required. The 
affordability information gathered suggested the loans  were  affordable  and the credit check  
didnt raise any major concerns. Therefore I do not find that I can say this loan shouldnt 
have been provided.
The final loan was for £1,000 repayable  over 12 months with repayments of £166  per month. 
Mr M repaid his loan taken out in May 2017 (loan 4, second in the lending chain) before this 
loan was provided. His previous loan was still outstanding meaning his combined 
repayments due under the two loans  were around £273. However it appears that he had 
been making payment towards the previous loan up to this time. So while I can see that a 
pattern of borrowing may have been emerging at this time I dont think  there is enough to 
say that Satsuma Loans should have been  reasonably aware at this point that the loan was 
unsustainable. Based  on the information I have seen regarding affordability and credit, I do 
not find that I have  enough to say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2262011