K820x#14complaint
Mrs V has complained that HSBC UK Bank  PLC (HSBC) mis-sold her a packaged bank 
account, called the Plus account in 2007. 
Mrs V paid a monthly fee for the account  and received several  potential  benefits in return. 
She thinks that HSBC  should refund her all the fees she paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Vs complaint and didnt think that 
HSBC had mis-sold the Plus account to her. 
Mrs V didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review her 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mrs Vs complaint. Ive 
looked into everything that Mrs V and HSBC have  told us or sent us about the case and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Both parties  have agreed that before  HSBC  sold the Plus account  to Mrs V, she had held 
one of its fee-free  accounts  for several  years. Mrs V has told us that HSBC sold the Plus 
account to her during a meeting when she visited one of its branches,  and that it 
recommended that she should buy the account  instead of keeping  the fee-free one. 
Mrs Vs first language is not English, and she has told us that she felt HSBC imposed the 
Plus account  on her. Shes also told us that she didnt need any of the benefits the account 
offered and that all it gave  her was additional expense.  
HSBC has denied imposing the Plus account  on Mrs V. Its told us that it gave her a fair 
choice. Its also said that it didnt recommend the account to Mrs V, but sold it to her on an 
information  only basis. For an information  only sale,  HSBC would have had to tell Mrs V 
about the accounts features and costs fairly  and clearly so she could decide if she wanted it. 
If HSBC recommended the account to Mrs V, then I would also have expected it to check  
that the account and its benefits were  a reasonable choice for her financial situation before 
advising her to buy it. 
Its now over a decade since HSBC sold the account to Mrs V and I cant tell for certain what 
happened during her visit to the branch. However,  from what Mrs V has told us, I certainly 
accept that she believed HSBC was recommending that she should buy the Plus account, 
and I have considered her complaint  on that basis. 
The main  point in Mrs Vs complaint seems to be that she thinks  HSBC didnt offer her a fair 
choice to keep  her fee-free account.  However,  at that time,  fee-free  bank accounts  were 
widely available in the UK, both from HSBC itself, and from its competitors. And they have 
continued to be available  since then. And while I appreciate that Mrs V was not fully fluent in 
Ref: DRN20894402English, she had been in the UK for several years, and had operated her fee-free bank 
account on a day-today  basis for some  time,  so I think  its unlikely that HSBC  imposed the 
Plus account  on her, or changed her account without her permission. I think its more likely 
that HSBC gave her a choice. 
Turning now to whether  HSBC behaved reasonably in recommending  the Plus account to 
Mrs V.
In 2007, when HSBC sold the Plus account  to Mrs V, its potential benefits  included travel 
insurance, fee-free cash withdrawals at overseas cash machines,  and if Plus customers  
used an HSBC credit card, it would also refund some of their interest. Around a year later,  it 
added discounts  on some types  of loan and life insurance policies to these potential  benefits. 
I understand that Mrs V travelled quite regularly, mainly to her home country, so it seems to 
me that the travel insurance and fee-free cash withdrawals may have  been  potentially useful 
to her. Mrs V has mentioned that she had a medical condition in 2007, but I dont think  this 
would have stopped her from being able to claim  on the travel  insurance policy in 
appropriate circumstances,  and I think it was reasonable  for HSBC to recommend the Plus 
account to Mrs V for its travel-related benefits. I understand that she also used a HSBC 
credit card and may have been eligible for a refund of some interest. 
I also find it highly likely  that HSBC  told Mrs V about the potential  benefits and the cost of the 
Plus account. After all, it wanted to sell the account to her, and it would have been in its own 
best interests to tell her what she could get in return for her monthly  fee.
In correspondence,  Mrs V has pointed out she didnt use all the benefits that came with the 
account. Shes mentioned that she never claimed on the travel  insurance, and that although  
she took two loans from HSBC, she never received the discount. Shes accepted, however,  
that she saved  some money on the fee-free cash withdrawals, and also on a life insurance  
policy she bought  after HSBC introduced the discount. 
Mrs V has looked back at the benefits  she did use and has compared  how much  she saved 
with the cost of the monthly  fees she paid. She has worked out that during the two years she 
held the Plus account, she paid more in fees than she gained  in savings. I fully accept  that 
her calculations are reliable and that she has done them  as accurately as possible.  
However, this doesnt mean that HSBC  was wrong to recommend the Plus account or sell it 
to her. 
When HSBC sold the account to Mrs V, it would have been  difficult  for either party to foresee 
accurately the extent  to which she would go on to actively use each benefit.  For example, it 
may have  turned out that she had to claim on the travel insurance. So I dont think that Mrs 
Vs calculations show  that HSBC  was unfair.  
Mrs V has also mentioned that she took two loans  from HSBC and didnt receive the 
discount. I accept  this is the case, but as this discount wasnt part of the package at the time 
HSBC sold the account to Mrs V, I doubt  that HSBC misled her about it. And when the 
discount was introduced,  it only applied to loans which met certain qualifying rules.
So, despite  the way things worked  out, given what was known at the time, I still think that 
HSBCs advice to Mrs V was reasonable.
 
Ref: DRN20894403Of course,  I cant  be certain that HSBC got everything right for Mrs V and I accept that it may 
not have explained all the details about  the Plus account to her as clearly as it should have 
done, particularly  given her difficulty with the English language. But Im satisfied that it gave 
her a choice  about  the account, that its recommendation  was reasonable and that it told her 
about the main  potential  benefits and about the fees. I dont  think  that HSBC mis-sold the 
Plus account  to Mrs V. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Vs complaint about HSBC UK 
Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2020.
Steve Townsley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2089440