K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1987. Mr H says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Theres not enough evidence for me to say that Lloyds didnt make it clear  that Mr H 
didnt have to take out the PPI or that he didnt choose to take it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr H so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seem to have had a need for the cover  which wouldve paid out on top of and for 
longer than his sick pay. It also covered unemployment, and wouldve protected  his 
savings in the event of him being  unable to work.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has. But these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Ref: DRN20782302Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2078230