K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage and further  advance Mrs P and Mr T hold with HSBC  UK 
Bank Plc trading as first direct.  Theyre unhappy that the bank didnt tell them  that if they 
wanted to move to another lender, theyd  need to repay both loans and not just the original  
mortgage. 
background
In November 2017, Mrs P and Mr T took out a further advance  on their mortgage;  it was for 
just over £98,500 and they chose a fixed rate with a five-year  period. That meant that if they 
repaid the further advance before November 2022, theyd incur an early repayment  charge 
(ERC). 
The existing main  mortgage (around  £355,000) was on a different interest  rate product, and 
its tie-in period was due to end in October 2018.  Mrs P and Mr T were  interested  in getting a 
new deal for the main  mortgage, and that included looking at deals from other lenders. 
However, HSBC explained that if they repaid the main  mortgage by getting a new mortgage  
from another lender, theyd have to repay  the further advance as well. That would mean 
theyd pay an ERC  on the further advance.
Mrs P and Mr T complained, saying this hadnt  been  made  clear  to them  when they took out 
the further advance. HSBC rejected the complaint; it said that in both the further  advance  
offer and the initial phone  call to arrange it, it had informed Mrs P and Mr T that it required  a 
first and only legal  charge  over their property.  Our adjudicator didnt  think  HSBC had done 
anything wrong, and so didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs P and Mr T have asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If I dont comment  on any specific point 
its not because  Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an 
overview and decide  whats fair in the round.
Ive listened to a recording  of the initial phone conversation Mrs P had with the bank before 
applying for the further advance, and Im satisfied the call handler said,  quite early on, that 
the bank required  a first and only legal charge as a condition of lending. That requirement is 
also set out, with reasonable prominence in the further advance  offer.  
So, in that context, Im satisfied Mrs P and Mr T were, or should reasonably have been, 
aware of the condition.  What Im not so sure about is whether Mrs P and Mr T understood 
the implications of it. To explain what I mean  by that, it might  help if I provide some 
background on how a legal charge works.
A legal charge, or mortgage deed as its sometimes  known, is a formal  and 
legally-enforceable  agreement under which a mortgagor (the borrower)  pledges their 
property as security for money lent by a mortgagee (the lender). Its executed  at the time of 
the first mortgage loan,  and secures  not just that opening debt, but any subsequent 
advances as well, if appropriate.  Thats  something  Id expect to have been drawn to Mrs P 
Ref: DRN23478152and Mr Ts attention by the solicitor who represented  them  in the original transaction  and 
arranged for them to execute the legal charge in HSBCs favour.
So, although  Mrs P and Mr T have two separate mortgage loan accounts,  on different 
interest rate deals  with different product end dates, both are secured by the one legal 
charge. If Mrs P wanted to move their mortgage  to another lender, that lender would require 
them to execute  a new legal charge in its favour, to secure the money it was lending them to 
repay HSBC. But the new lenders  legal charge would  need to replace HSBCs legal charge. 
For that to happen,  HSBCs legal charge would have to be released altogether,  or 
postponed. 
Releasing HSBCs legal charge altogether would mean Mrs P and Mr T having to repay  
everything they owe HSBC that is secured by its legal charge. For the reasons I explained in 
the preceding  paragraph,  that means  the main  mortgage and the further  advance. That 
leaves postponement.
Some lenders are willing to have  a second  (or even a third) legal charge as security  for debt. 
Thats where one lender  holds a first legal  charge,  and another  lender agrees to lend on the 
basis of a legal charge  that ranks second  (or third) in priority behind  the first lenders legal 
charge. The practical  relevance of this applies in the event of a property being taken into 
possession in reliance  on a legal charge and then sold to recover money  owed. 
Regardless of which  lender  has taken possession, the holder of the first legal charge is 
repaid first, and any subsequent charge holders are then paid in order  of priority, provided  
there is enough money from the sale. So the risk of money lent not being repaid increases 
as each legal charge  ranks lower. 
What Mrs P and Mr T wanted  HSBC to do, in effect,  was allow  a new lender to take a first 
legal charge on a new main  mortgage, and for HSBC to agree to its legal charge being 
postponed to rank second in priority behind the new lenders first charge to continue  
securing the further advance. But as HSBCs  requirement  is to have a first legal charge only,  
that could never happen. The question for me to consider is whether HSBC was obliged to 
spell all of this out to Mrs P and Mr T when they were  applying for the further advance.
As a starting point,  a lender isnt required to volunteer information, advice or guidance. But if 
its asked for information, advice or guidance, it should respond  with diligence and care. 
Going back to Mrs Ps phone conversation with HSBC, its true that she steered the 
discussion towards what options might be available to them when the fixed  rate on the main 
mortgage ends  in October 2018.  
But at no time in that conversation did Mrs P mention the possibility that she and Mr T might 
want to move the main  mortgage to another lender and keep the proposed further  advance  
with HSBC. And if HSBC  wasnt  asked  if they could do that, it wasnt  obliged to tell them  
theyd need to repay everything they owed, because it was all secured by the one legal 
charge. In the absence of that specific question,  HSBC was entitled to assume Mrs P and 
Mr T had been advised how the legal charge worked when they executed it.
Ref: DRN23478153my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint, or make any order or award  against HSBC UK Bank Plc. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 August 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2347815