K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr B bought the policy at a meeting in 2000 at the same  time as taking a loan. Halifaxs 
records say Mr B worked as a courier at the time. Mr B has told us he was employed full 
time in that role, had been there six months at the time of the sale and wasnt  entitled  to sick 
pay. Halifaxs records say Mr B had been with that employer for more  than a year.  I think  it 
likely Mr B was entitled to statutory pay for sickness. Hes told us he also had savings.
Mr B has also told us he had insurance  for long term sickness.  Hes told us he hasnt any 
documentary evidence  of this any longer  which isnt surprising given how long ago the sale 
was. Also when asked to say what the insurance  covered, he said it was life cover and didnt 
say anything about sickness cover. He has also told us the insurance was taken in 1984 and 
was provided by a financial  company he worked  for and lasted as long as he was employed 
by them.  He wasnt working for that financial company at the time of this sale.
As well as telling  us he was employed in his role, Mr B has told us he was self-employed. He 
has also told us he has no evidence to show  he was self-employed.  What has been sent to 
us by Mr B or on his behalf has mostly said he was employed rather than self-employed.
Mr B has told us he took painkillers for pain he had in or around  the year the policy was sold.  
He hasnt told us of having missed  any work  as a result of this or of seeking treatment from a 
doctor or any other  treatment  and he hasnt told us of having had that pain on any other  
occasions before or of having had any other  health  issues.
The loan was repayable over a 156 month term. The monthly loan repayment was £145.59 
with the PPI costing  an additional £15.10,  making the total monthly repayment £160.69. The 
PPI policy  didnt attract interest and could be cancelled without penalty by either party with 
Mr B needing to give written notice  and Halifax needing to give 30 days  written notice.
The policy provided  cover  on Mr B for accident,  sickness and unemployment, and life cover,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim it offered to pay the amount 
Mr B had to pay monthly to Halifax under his agreement for up to 60 months  for a disability 
claim and 12 months for an unemployment  claim. The life cover would, subject to its terms, 
repay the loan on death.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the loan account closed in 2003. Mr Bs representative  
has made lengthy and substantial  representations on his behalf. Ill not restate them  all here, 
but I have read and considered them all carefully. 
In summary,  Mr Bs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr B wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Bs representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
Ref: DRN28113842The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr B about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr B and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG).
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN28113843This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Bs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. 
I note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
Ref: DRN28113844-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent he suffered loss or damage and what  
I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.  
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr B know  he had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. The loan agreement asked: Do you want  
Personal Loan Repayments Insurance  with boxes  to say either Yes or No. On Mr Bs 
form, which he signed to take the loan, the Yes  box is marked - and I think it wouldve been  
apparent to Mr B that the No box should be marked instead if the PPI wasnt wanted.
Like most details on the form, such as the amount being borrowed, the mark in the Yes box 
is printed. I think its likely the printed details reflect the decisions Mr B made  at the meeting 
during the discussion that took place  before  the form was printed for him to sign.  I say this 
bearing in mind that the form presented the PPI as insurance customers  could say Yes  or 
No to, depending  on whether they wanted  it. Mr B hasnt said anything to make  me think  he 
was pressured  into the PPI either.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr B knew the PPI was optional and 
agreed to take it without  undue pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice during this sale. Mr B has said he cant  recall whether advice 
was given or not. With all this in mind, Im persuaded Halifax  likely provided advice. This 
means Halifax had to advise Mr B with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
PPI was appropriate or suitable given  his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the PPI was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr B. Theres no record of what exactly  Halifax  discussed  in relation to 
the PPI. Halifax had some limited  information  about  Mr Bs financial circumstances  from his 
loan application,  but theres no specific evidence to show that Halifax  took steps to establish 
whether Mr B would  be caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which  might have 
meant the PPI didnt  fully meet his needs. For example, theres nothing to suggest Halifax  
considered whether Mr B had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Ref: DRN28113845Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr B given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr B, I do think  its more likely  than not the PPI was ultimately suitable for him. In 
reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr B had a need for the policy   even allowing for the statutory sick pay hes likely to 
have been entitled  to, it seems  likely  hed suffer a drop in income if he werent working 
for an extended period due to sickness or unemployment. 
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy - and although  he has said he was financially 
stretched at the time,  Ive seen  nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI 
wasnt affordable.
-The PPI benefit  wouldve  helped Mr B manage  the consequences  if he suffered a drop in 
income. If he was financially stretched at the time, such a drop might otherwise have put 
his finances under  further strain. If, as he has also said,  he had substantial savings at the 
time which hed chosen not to use (instead taking  the loan secured against his house), 
the policy benefit would help him keep those savings intact or free for other uses  at what  
could be a difficult time if he werent  able to work due to disability or unemployment.
-Based  on what I have, I think it likely Mr B was an employee  in permanent full-time work  
at the time of sale and nothing about  his employment or occupation  wouldve made it 
difficult for him to claim.
-The other policy exclusions and limitations  didnt make  the PPI unsuitable for Mr B. He 
couldnt have  claimed for work  absences arising  in future  due to the health  issue  hed 
taken painkillers for in the year of sale (assuming that issue occurred before the policy 
start), but this issue hadnt caused any work  absence for Mr B in the past and hed had 
no other treatment for it. He hasnt told us of any previous occurrences  of it either. With 
all this in mind, Im not persuaded Halifax  ought  to have considered  this issue  significant  
enough for its exclusion to make  the cover unsuitable for Mr B. Also,  Mr B hasnt told us 
he had any other  health issues the policy terms mightve affected  his ability to claim for.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr B sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Halifax  was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr B was given a broad description  of what the PPI was 
intended to cover (that is, it would protect  his payments if he were unable to work through 
accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate cost. 
Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr B wouldve taken the PPI without 
any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be. Also, as the actual 
starting premium was set out on the credit  agreement  Mr B signed,  I think it likely he knew  
what the premium would be when he applied for the cover.  But the evidence from the time of 
Ref: DRN28113846sale doesnt tell us whether Halifax gave sufficient information about the actual monthly 
benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr B agreed to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr B, Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr B all the information he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Bs representative  considers  to be poor  value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr B about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mr B has suggested. And, taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
Halifax ought to have done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr B? To what extent  did he suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr B. So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr B suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr B would have still 
taken the policy,  had Halifax done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr B, I have found the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mr B would have acted differently or whether  he would have taken the policy  in any event.
Ref: DRN28113847Mr B says he wouldnt have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  given 
the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the representations of both sides and 
the evidence relating  to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr B had some interest in taking  payment  protection 
insurance. By this I mean, when Halifax advised him there was a suitable product he could 
buy that would protect  his loan payments if he were unable to work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment, Mr B concluded he wanted that product. But he made  that 
decision based on incomplete information,  meaning  what he thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Bs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. As Ive also 
already explained, the information Mr B was given about cost was clear. But the information 
about other aspects  of the policy, such as the benefit and the limitations and exclusions, 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. That said, although Im not persuaded Halifax  made 
clear exactly  what Mr B would get for a successful  claim, I think  it unlikely his expectations 
about what the PPI would pay in the event of a claim (enough to meet  what  he had to pay 
monthly to Halifax under  his loan agreement with Halifax) were significantly different  to what 
the PPI actually did pay.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims if disability was because of a health issue  Mr B knew  about 
or which a doctor thought he should reasonably  have known about or which he asked 
about or got advice or treatment for from a medical  practitioner  in the 12 months before 
the policy start and which recurred  within 24 months of the policy start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions, 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr B wasnt  
a permanent employee; 
The requirement that, to be eligible for disability, Mr B be stopped  from doing  his own or 
any similar job and be stopped  from doing any paid work  his experience, education  or 
training reasonably qualified him to do; and
Cover for disability and unemployment would end when Mr B turned 65 (if he hadnt  
already permanently retired before then).
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr B pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking  the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the PPI wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
Ref: DRN28113848cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr B might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr B 
from taking the policy,  Mr B, in his circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
Mr B couldnt claim for work absences arising  from the health  issue  hed had in the year of 
the sale (assuming  that issue occurred before the policy start). Ive considered all hes told 
us about that issue, including  that he took painkillers  for it but had no other treatment and 
took no time off work. Also, hes not told us there  were any previous occurrences  of it. With 
all this in mind, what I have doesnt persuade me Mr B wouldve  given  the possibility of a 
work absence arising from this issue enough weight to be put off the PPI had he known such 
an absence wouldnt be covered. 
Mr B hadnt  any other health issues or health  conditions the policy  mightve excluded. The 
evidence Ive seen  doesnt make me think Mr B wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions either. For example, based  on what I have I think  it likely Mr B was in 
permanent full-time employment. So, with all this and all Ive said above in mind, I think Mr B 
still had some good reasons to take the cover.
If Mr B had known he could only claim for disability if he were unable  to do his own or any 
similar job, and unable to do any work his experience, education or training reasonably 
qualified him to do, it might have played into his thinking about  what to do. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  but, given  his circumstances,  on balance I think  it 
likely Mr B wouldve still been  interested  in taking the cover.
Mr B has complained he became ineligible to claim on the policy  during its term when he 
turned 65. Cover  for disability and unemployment would end when Mr B turned 65 (or earlier 
if he permanently retired before then). But Mr B was in his mid-fifties when he took the PPI, 
so I think it more likely than not hed have thought hed still get some value out of having  the 
cover - as its likely it wouldve  covered  him for disability and unemployment for a reasonable 
period before he turned 65.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr B would still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for him, sufficiently close to what 
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if he were  made redundant, or unable to work through accident  or sickness.  
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr B wouldve taken the PPI in any 
event, notwithstanding  the limitations  on cover.
Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN28113849the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr B would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as a result of the sale was the same position he would have  been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible Mr B wouldnt  have taken the PPI, Im satisfied, 
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he would still have taken the PPI had he been  
given clear, fair and not misleading  information  about the policy  he was buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Halifax should pay Mr B compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware Mr B thinks  Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it described 
the PPI.  Whilst I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude  some of Halifaxs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Halifax gave Mr B, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2000 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take and the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Halifax had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr B in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done.
Ref: DRN281138410my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2811384