K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about fourteen high-cost short term credit loans that Sunny provided to    
Mr R from June 2016 onwards. Mr Rs last loan was provided in February  2017.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Rs complaint and thought  that he shouldnt have been provided 
with loans 5 to 14. Sunny disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr R could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr R, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr R was unlikely to have been  able to make his payments  in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided loan 5. 
I say this because  by this stage, Mr R was provided with a fifth loan the day after he was 
provided with his fourth one And loan four was taken the day after loans one, two and three  
which should have  been a warning  sign that he might have been borrowing to cover the hole 
that making his repayments was leaving in his finances. This pattern of borrowing went on to 
Ref: DRN20902042continue over an extended number of loans.  Im not persuaded that the loan repayments 
being less than a certain  percentage of Mr Rs income means that they were  sustainable or 
that it was fair and reasonable for Sunny to provide them.
Mr R had to pay interest  and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt  have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on loans 5 to 10;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove all interest and charges applied to loans 11 to 15 from the outset. The 
payments Mr R made should  then be deducted from the reworked  balances.  If 
outstanding balances remain after all adjustments  have been made then Sunny can 
deduct these from the compensation it now needs  to pay Mr R.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Rs credit file as a result  of loans 5 
to 10.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Id also like to remind Sunny of its obligation to exercise forbearance should it be the case  
that any outstanding balances remain after all the above has been done and Mr R be 
experiencing financial difficulties.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Rs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mr R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2090204