K822xcomplaint
Mrs B complained about how esure  Insurance Limited handled her claim under her motor 
insurance policy. 
background
Mrs Bs car was damaged in an accident and esure decided that it was uneconomical to 
repair. But, before  she could decide if she wanted  her car back  to repair  it herself, esure 
disposed of it for salvage. 
esure admitted their mistake and offered Mrs B compensation. But she remained unhappy 
and wanted esure to make sure that it wouldnt happen again.  She was also unhappy with 
other aspects of their service. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should  be upheld.  She agreed that 
esure had provided  poor service but thought that theyd offered fair compensation.  
Mrs B didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B was in two car accidents  shortly  after one another.  She didnt make a claim for the first 
incident, but reported it to esure.  In the second  accident her car was damaged  and so she 
made a claim. 
esure assessed her cars damage  and estimated that the repair costs would be about  £600 
more than her cars market value. So they decided  that it would be uneconomical to repair it. 
Under her policy they then had to pay her cars market value, less any policy  excess. So 
they offered  her £2,193,  less her policy excess of £250. 
esure sent her car to their salvage agent. But Mrs B told esure that she didnt want  her car 
scrapped until she had enough information to decide what to do. She thought it might be 
cost effective for her to pay any extra  to have the car repaired  herself.  So she queried  how 
much esure would pay towards the repairs. But before esure could tell her this, her car was 
sold without her consent. esure admitted  that this was their mistake.  Although theyd noted 
on their records  that her car shouldnt be sold for salvage, they hadnt told the salvage 
company that. They also accepted that their overall  level of service  hadnt been satisfactory. 
So they offered  Mrs B another  £207 more  for her cars market value. They also offered £350  
in compensation  for the inconvenience they accepted their actions had caused her.
Mrs B was upset that theyd sold her car. She was also upset when she discovered that it 
had been repaired  and then put back on the road. So not only did she not have it back  but 
someone else had it. She told us that her son had given  her the car and it was of sentimental  
value. However she also suffered  from health conditions and driving it had been instrumental 
in her recovery. Her car was of standard specification, and not specially adapted,  but she felt 
that it was just right for her needs  in terms of its accessibility and other features. She said 
that she couldnt afford to buy another similar car for the settlement amount,  and she had to 
borrow money to do so. 
Ref: DRN21127312Shes told us that she was not so concerned about compensation, but wanted esure to be 
held accountable for allowing her car to be sold without her consent,  and for their customer  
service failings. 
However as the investigator has explained,  this services role is to look at individual  
complaints impartially  and ask a business  to compensate  for any distress  and inconvenience  
caused and put things  right as far as possible in the circumstances. We have to decide  
whether esure have  done enough  there.  But we can't order a business to change their 
commercial practices to avoid any repeat of this situation, nor can we punish them for it. The 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), overlooks businesses and has power  to impose  
sanctions where they feel is necessary,  and the investigator has given Mrs B their contact 
details. 
Mrs Bs car 
esure has admitted  that they mistakenly  sold her car for salvage without her consent. Clearly  
they shouldnt  have done this, and I can see that it must  be galling for her. She wanted  this 
service to investigate how esure  could  have let her car be sold,  and to whom  it was sold.  
She felt that esure stole her car, and suspected that it was not a mistake.  Shed been in 
touch with the police about this and the Driver vehicle Licensing Agency  (DVLA) to find out 
the details of the new owner, but DVLA wouldnt  provide that. And, as the investigator 
explained, even  if that information  were obtainable, its not in our remit to investigate that. 
esure say that they made a mistake in not telling the salvage company that the car should be 
retained pending her decision  about  repairing it, and theres  nothing  on their file to suggest  
otherwise. And because  Mrs B cant get her car back, and esure have admitted their 
mistake, Im not going  to examine further  how the mistake happened.
The investigator has also explained to Mrs B our approach regarding complaints about car 
valuations. esure has to pay her cars market value under  her policy.  However we dont 
decide what the market value of a car is. Instead we consider whether or not an insurer has 
reached a fair and reasonable  amount having regard to the valuations in the trade  guides. 
The prices  in these  guides are linked to monthly  nationwide  sales  figures and we believe 
they give a reasonable and independent guide  and take account of a number of factors  
including mileage, condition, and any extra features. esure checked these guides and 
offered Mrs B £2,193 for her car, less her policy excess.
The investigator has checked the market  value from the three trade guides and I see that 
what esure originally offered Mrs B was in line with them and so was reasonable. And so I 
think that they did value her car fairly car given  its age, mileage and condition. They also 
admitted and apologised for their mistake  quickly,  and they increased their market  value 
offer by £207.  Ill comment  on that further  below in the context of their compensation offer 
overall. 
Mrs B felt that the £207  was taken  up by the excess of £250, but thats  a separate  issue  as 
an excess applies on any claim.  So I think that esure are entitled to deduct the excess  from 
any settlement amount.
Ref: DRN21127313esures decision about liability 
Mrs B was also unhappy about  esures  decision about who was at fault in the second 
accident. esure said at first that shed be only 50% to blame for the accident but then 
decided she was 100%  to blame.  She felt that theyd changed their minds  about this 
because she complained about their actions. 
However under her policy esure can defend or settle  a claim as they see fit. They have 
discretion to decide about liability and do this on her behalf, based  on the evidence they 
have. This is regardless of whether she agrees, and its a common term in motor  insurance 
policies. In this case I can see that based on Mrs Bs account  of events, esure thought  50/50  
liability was possible,  but they did tell her theyd need to hear from the other driver too before 
deciding. When they did, on the evidence overall  they decided  that it was more likely that 
Mrs B was to blame. Having looked  at their file I think that they did have enough evidence to 
decide that, as theyd  looked at both accounts of the event. Regardless of the timing  of 
esures decision, I dont  see anything to suggest  that their decision  was motivated by Mrs Bs 
complaint
Customer service  and compensation
Mrs B also wanted this service to investigate esures handling of her claim overall. She said 
that esures staff gave  her wrong  information, couldnt give her the correct information 
promptly, didnt understand their own procedures and didnt  keep her informed. She also 
wanted to know  why theyd had a law firm contact her about the first accident.  
Again esure accepted that their customer service wasnt satisfactory and they didnt keep 
her informed. Theyd also confused the two car accidents. Although  she hadnt made any 
claim after the first accident,  when  she had the second one, esure got confused and 
reopened the first case. This lead to them instructing  the law firm, who contacted her. She 
found this confusing, and replying to the law firm caused her unnecessary inconvenience. 
However, again as Ive explained above, esure has accepted theyve made  mistakes  there  
and its not our role to investigate why these happened, only to ensure that shes  treated 
fairly now. 
esure increased Mrs Bs cars market value  settlement offer by £207, and they also offered 
her compensation of £350. So that makes total compensation  of £557. I see that Mrs B has 
lost a car that she really liked and which met her needs. I think thats  very unfortunate. 
However, Mrs B cant get that car back and so I can l only look at what esure have  done  to 
try to put the situation right. Overall , I think that they have acted promptly  to recompense  her 
and I think that what  they have  offered  her in compensation for their actions is reasonable 
and in line with other  awards we make in such circumstances. So it follows  that I dont ask 
esure to do any more than they have done.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Rosslyn Scott 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2112731