K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1991. Mr C paid for the PPI with a regular  
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered his mortgage payments in case he 
was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.  
Having done that, I have  not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was almost three decades ago, so understandably  neither side still have the 
original documents.  But Ive not seen any wider  problems  with Halifaxs  sales process from 
the time,  nor any evidence that it added the PPI without Mr C knowing or misled him into 
thinking he had to have it. And there  doesnt  seem to be any debate that Mr C chose to take 
out the policy. So I think its most likely  that Halifax made Mr C aware he had a choice about  
buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr C, so it had to check  it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks  like Mr C 
was eligible for the cover  and wasnt affected  by any of its main exclusions or limitations at 
the time of the sale. Based on the information Mr Cs given, it seems the PPI wouldve 
covered him for far longer  than his work benefits,  and it paid out on top of his existing 
benefits. Its worth bearing in mind that if Mr C fell behind  on his mortgage, he couldve lost 
his home.  So while  the PPI wouldnt  have  covered  every eventuality,  it seems  it couldve 
really been useful for Mr C in protecting his home in case he was off sick or lost his job. 
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr C about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. But as I explained above,  it looks like at the time of the sale Mr C was not affected by 
any of the main things  the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really  been useful for him in 
case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would 
pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mr C could cancel it 
at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely  to have 
put him off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN22103922I understand there may have been an occasion where  Mr C tried to claim on the policy, but 
wasnt successful. This case is about  the sale of the policy rather  than what happened 
afterwards. But Mr C can get in touch with Halifax about the claim if he thinks  it shouldve  
gone through. Then if he needs our help, Mr C may be able to bring that to our service as a 
separate case. Similarly, if Mr C is unhappy  about the way his buildings insurance was 
priced, that would also need to be a separate complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Cs complaint about the sale of this PPI 
policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2210392