K820x#14Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs Y says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1997. 
The policy cost no more  than £1.00  per £100 Mrs Y owed on her store  card. The policy 
would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month  if Mrs Y couldnt 
work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs Y disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ys case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ys complaint. Ill explain my reasoning below.
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ys credit  application  form. The quality of the form is not great,  but I 
can see that in the section  related to PPI titled protecting your account   a handwritten tick 
has opted for the policy. Mrs Y has signed the form so I think its likely  to reflect  what she 
wanted. And without  stronger evidence to support what Mrs Y has told us, on balance I think  
its more likely than not that Mrs Y chose to take the policy knowing she had a choice. 
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs Y and I think thats likely to be right.  So it 
didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need to make  sure it gave
Mrs Y clear  enough information about  the policy to enable her to decide for herself  if she 
should take the policy.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs Y about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But even  if FICL  had given her better or clearer  information,  I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have taken  out the policy.  
I say this because  Mrs Y was eligible for the policy and based on what  Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. Mrs Y says she was diagnosed with a medical condition in 1999,  two 
years after the policy  was sold. There is no suggestion Mrs Y was suffering from any medical  
condition when the policy was sold, and shes ticked to confirm this on her PPI 
questionnaire. As she didnt have the condition at the time, I consider it unlikely that clearer 
information about the policy wouldve affected her decision  to take it out.  
Mrs Y says she wouldve  received six months  full sick pay and three months full redundancy 
pay from her employer.  But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to any employee benefits 
Ref: DRN21892842she wouldve received.  And if Mrs Y was unable to work  because  of accident  or sickness the 
PPI wouldve  paid out until she was able to return to work, or until the outstanding balance  
was cleared  whichever  came first. And the policy  would cover the same term if she was to 
lose her job. So I think the policy wouldve been useful to Mrs Y. It also looks  like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking it.
And overall,  when taking  into account everything Ive seen  and been  told, I dont think  Mrs Y 
has lost out as a result  of anything FICL did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.  
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2189284