K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax wont  refund a disputed 
transaction made from his credit card account.
background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 22 November 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
I asked both parties to provide any more comments or evidence,  before I reconsidered the 
complaint and issued a final decision.
Halifax accepted  the provisional decision.  
Mr H replied saying that he was disappointed as he still feels  the club was dishonest.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in the provisional  decision,  Mr Hs complaint is against  Halifax and as such  I 
have to look at the actions  Halifax has taken,  and whether they can fairly hold Mr H liable for 
the disputed transaction. 
I dont disbelieve  Mr H that the club mayve acted in an unreputable way  but this doesnt 
necessarily mean that Halifax should be held liable. In this case  Halifax  attempted a 
chargeback and were  provided with a sales voucher for the disputed  transaction.  Based on 
this voucher Halifax didnt further  pursue the chargeback, and they arent  required to do so. 
Halifax has taken the steps I wouldve expected with regards to attempting the chargeback.
As Mr H hasnt  provided any new information or evidence, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision.  Im still persuaded that Mr H authorised the 
transaction by using  his card and PIN, and as such Halifax is entitled to hold him liable for it. 
And that the £50 Halifax has already paid Mr H is a fair award for the poor customer service 
he received, when he initially called to query the disputed  transaction.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020..
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22392282provisional decision
complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax wont refund a disputed
transaction made from his credit  card account.
background
While abroad on holiday Mr H visited a club. In the club Mr H purchased some drinks and
when he attempted to pay his bill on a card the transaction was declined. So, Mr H used  his
Halifax credit card which was approved.
Mr H says he didnt check the amount before entering his PIN but later found  out it was for
just over £856, whereas  he had expected to pay just over £85.
Mr H contacted Halifax to let them know  that his credit  card was debited with the wrong
amount and to find out what he could do about this, but he says Halifax told him they
couldnt help him.
Mr H got in contact  with Halifax again to raise a complaint. Halifax  acknowledged that Mr H
was given  incorrect information and offered  him £50 for the inconvenience they caused.
They also arranged  for a credit adjustment to be made to Mr Hs credit card account for the
difference between the amount charged and the amount Mr H said he expected to pay, and
Halifax raised a charge back with the club disputing the transaction.
Halifax got in touch with Mr H once theyd heard back from the club to let him know that the
credit adjustment would be removed from his account as the merchant had defended the
charge back.  Halifax said based on the club providing  a sales voucher showing what  was
purchased and totalling  the amount charged, they wouldnt be pursuing  the charge  back
further.
Mr H wasnt  happy with Halifaxs response, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.  In summary, he felt
Halifax had followed the charge back  process  correctly  and hadnt done anything  wrong in
re-debiting Mr Hs account  for the disputed funds.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view saying  he was a victim of fraud and that he
doesnt think  Halifax has done enough in trying to get his funds back  or proving the validity  of
the charge.
So, the complaint was passed  to me to be reviewed.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr H mayve been a victim of crime, and that he wants  things put right.
But in deciding this case, I have to look at what actions Halifax  has taken  in the
circumstances and what  their responsibility is in trying  to get these  funds back for Mr H, and
ultimately whether they can fairly hold him liable for the transaction.
Ref: DRN22392283authorisation
Generally, Halifax can hold Mr H liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised  it himself.
In this case its not in dispute that Mr Hs genuine  card and PIN were used to make the
disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own,
enough to enable Halifax to hold him liable. So, I also need to think  about  whether  the
evidence suggests  that its more likely  than not that Mr H consented to the transaction  being
made.
Mr H has told us that he didnt check the amount on the terminal prior to entering his PIN,
and that the business  charged  him the incorrect amount. But by putting  his PIN into the
terminal Mr H has consented to and authorised the transaction, even  if he didnt  validate
the amount he was being  charged.
the attempted charge back
I can see that when Halifax were advised by Mr H about his concern  over the amount
charged, they attempted to do a charge back - which  is what I wouldve expected in this
situation. When  the club defended  the charge  back, providing an itemised  terminal receipt I
dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax  not to pursue the charge back further. If a
business doesnt think that there is a likely chance of success, they arent required to pursue
a charge back on the consumers  behalf. So, I think Halifax has taken the appropriate steps
in attempting a charge  back for Mr H.
Having considered  everything, Im persuaded that Mr H authorised the transaction at the
time by using his card and PIN. And, that Halifax  has done everything I wouldve expected
with regards to attempting a charge back.  Therefore,  Halifax is entitled to hold Mr H liable for
the disputed transaction.
But I can see that Halifax gave Mr H incorrect information when he first called them to
dispute the transaction, which Halifax  has acknowledged. It took Halifax approximately  four
weeks from the date Mr H first got in touch  about  the disputed  transaction to them raising  the
charge back.  In the circumstances I think  the £50 Halifax has already paid Mr H is a fair
award for the poor customer service.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont currently intend  to uphold this complaint.
I invite both parties to provide me with any further representations that they may wish to
make by 6 December 2019, after which  time I will reconsider the complaint.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2239228