K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Financial Insurance  Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims 
management company.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card that Mrs B took out in 
February 2000. It was sold to her in store. The PPI covered  Mrs B if she was unable  to work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  
Its been agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility for the complaint. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that FICL 
hadnt brought the pre-existing medical condition terms to Mrs Bs attention.  And that, if it 
had done, she wouldnt have taken the policy.
FICL didnt  agree saying, in summary,  that Mrs Bs condition  may have been manageable 
and therefore  unlikely to affect her ability to work. If Mrs B was unlikely to make a claim for 
this condition, then she might still have taken the policy, knowing shed  be covered for any 
other conditions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain  why.
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs B, so it didnt have to make sure it was suitable for 
her. But it did have to provide her with information which  was clear, fair and not misleading 
so that she could make an informed  choice about  the insurance she was buying.
The terms of the policy included an exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions.  Mrs B 
wouldnt have been able to make a successful sickness or disability claim for any sickness, 
disease, condition  or injury that she was aware  of in the 12 months before the policy  
started.
Mrs B told us shed been diagnosed with a condition  more  than ten years before  she was 
sold the policy. This condition was long term and required regular  medication.  This condition 
wouldnt have been covered by the policy. And although Mrs B told us she hasnt  had to 
have time of work  because of the condition, the nature  of it suggests to me that, when she 
took out the policy, she was likely  to have anticipated that any time off work would likely be 
due to this condition, or something connected to it.
So I find that, had the exclusion terms been  brought to her attention,  its more  likely than not 
that Mrs B wouldnt have taken the policy.
Ref: DRN29798462putting things right
FICL should put Mrs B in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and FICL should:
A.Pay Mrs B the amount she paid each month  for the PPI.
B.Add simple  interest  to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back.  The 
rate of interest  is 8% a year. 
C.If Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
D.If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs B that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted  by FICL  from the redress  shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs B a certificate  showing how much tax FICL  have taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Financial Insurance Company Limited 
should pay compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2979846