K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Metro Bank  PLC (Metro)  is holding her liable for a large number of 
cash machine withdrawals that were made using her debit card. Mrs W says she didnt make 
or authorise  them and that Metro should therefore  refund them.
Mrs Ws daughter,  Miss W, is helping  her to bring this complaint.
background
Over a period  of nearly five months Mrs Ws debit card was used to make 45 cash  machine 
withdrawals that she says she doesnt  recognise.  All the withdrawals were  made  within close  
proximity to Mrs Ws home. The total amount  withdrawn was £13,110.
Mrs W says she never used her debit card and always went into the branch  to make any 
withdrawals. The main  purpose of the account  was to deposit savings for her grandchildren.
On 19 April 2018, shed  received a large  sum into the account, which was her sisters and 
her inheritance, and she was devastated  when she learned most of it had been withdrawn.
Metro looked into the matter but concluded that either Mrs W or someone known to her with 
her consent  probably  had been responsible for the cash withdrawals. It said her genuine  
card had been used together with the correct PIN. As the card was still in Mrs Ws 
possession and there was no point of compromise for her PIN, it didnt  agree  to a refund.
Mrs W didnt accept Metros findings  and referred  the matter to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator recommended  that the complaint 
should be upheld  as she wasnt persuaded Mrs W had authorised  the cash  withdrawals.
Metro didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint. I did that but 
reached  provisionally  at least   a different conclusion from the investigator. 
I sent Mrs W and Metro  my provisional  decision on 11 February 2020 explaining why I 
wasnt intending to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ive attached  a copy  of my provisional  
decision, which forms part of this final decision. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions. 
Metro didnt respond.   
Mrs W didnt accept my provisional decision;  she was extremely upset and said that she will 
be taking the matter to the police.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have to base  my decision on the evidence that has been shared with me - neither party  has 
provided anything  further to change my mind so Im unable to reasonably depart from my 
provisional conclusions;  which  are that I think  its more likely than not that Mrs W either 
Ref: DRN22035542made the withdrawals  herself or let someone else make them.  Either  way it wouldnt be fair 
to require Metro  to refund them.
I realise this will probably seem unfair to Mrs W and she will be disappointed  with my 
decision. But, for the reasons Ive given already, I think the outcome I set out in my 
provisional decision is fair and reasonable - in the circumstances.  
Mrs W is not obliged to accept what Ive said, in which case  she remains free to pursue this 
matter by alternative means  should she wish to do so.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22035543copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mrs W complains  that Metro Bank PLC (Metro)  is holding her liable for a large  number of
cash machine  withdrawals that were made using her debit  card. Mrs W says she didnt make
or authorise them and that Metro should therefore refund  them.
Mrs Ws daughter, Miss W, is helping her to bring this complaint.
background
Over a period of nearly five months Mrs Ws debit card was used to make 45 cash machine
withdrawals that she says she doesnt recognise. All the withdrawals were made  within  close
proximity to Mrs Ws home. The total amount withdrawn was £13,110.
Mrs W says she never  used her debit card and always went  into the branch to make any
withdrawals. The main  purpose  of the account  was to deposit  savings for her grandchildren.
On 19 April 2018, shed  received a large sum into the account, which  was her sisters and
her inheritance, and she was devastated  when  she learned most of it had been withdrawn.
Metro looked into the matter but concluded that either Mrs W or someone known to her with
her consent  probably had been responsible for the cash withdrawals. It said her genuine
card had been  used together with the correct PIN. As the card was still in Mrs Ws
possession and there  was no point  of compromise  for her PIN, it didnt agree to a refund.
Mrs W didnt  accept Metros findings and referred the matter to this service where it was
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator recommended that the complaint
should be upheld  as she wasnt persuaded Mrs W had authorised the cash withdrawals.
Metro didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im currently considering
not upholding the complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs W, so let me explain
why.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory as it has been for parts of
Mrs Ws complaint,  my findings and decision are made on a balance  of probabilities  in
other words, what  I consider  is most likely  to have happened in light of the available
evidence and the wider circumstances. I think it is important at this stage  for me to make
clear that; I wont always be able to say what definitely  did, or didnt happen.
Generally, Metro can only hold Mrs W liable for the disputed  transactions if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself.
Miss W told us that she thinks Mrs Ws card mustve  been cloned. Let me start by
explaining that when  cards are cloned, the magnetic stripe on the back  can be copied. Chip
technology is more advanced and there havent  been any known  cases where the unique
chip on a card has been  copied,  or the PIN identified from a card.
So, Im satisfied with Metros technical evidence  that the genuine card was used with the
correct PIN to make  the cash withdrawals. Metros records  show that the chip embedded  in
the genuine card ending 7916 was read  making the use of a cloned card most unlikely. It
Ref: DRN22035544has also provided  evidence to show that the corresponding PIN was entered  correctly  to
make the withdrawals  with no incorrect PIN attempts. But the regulations  relevant  to this
case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Metro to hold Mrs W liable. So, I also need
to think  about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely  than not that Mrs W
consented to the transactions and what I need to consider is how someone other than
Mrs W couldve obtained  both her card and her PIN.
Mrs W has said that she has only ever received  two cards for her Metro  account  one when
she opened  the account  in December  2014 and the second in January 2019  when she
visited branch  B to withdraw money for her fathers headstone. This was also the day she
became aware of the disputed  cash  machine withdrawals.
However, Metros records show that there have been three cards issued since Mrs W
opened her account  with Metro;
- First card issued on 29 December (card  ending  7916)  expiry December 2016
- Replacement issued on 23 August 2018 (card ending 7916)  expiry August 2020
- New card issued 2 January 2019 (card ending  9952)  expiry August 2020
All 46 disputed cash machine withdrawals took place using the replacement card ending
7916  which was produced in branch B on 23 August 2018  around the same time an over
counter cash  withdrawal for £1,250 was made from Mrs W account.
Mrs W has confirmed the £1,250 withdrawal was made by her. She had gone to branch  B
on 23 August  2018 to withdraw money to pay for her nans headstone. Mrs W has said she
was alone  which is usually  the case when  she visits branch B. She recalls handing the
cashier her card to make the withdrawal  which was then returned to her with the money
she withdrew. She did not make a request for a new card and disputes having  received one.
Metro has provided  evidence to show; Mrs Ws cash withdrawal, the production of the
replacement card ending 7916 and cancellation  of the first card ending  7916 all happened
within minutes of each  other;
- Cash withdrawal processed at 11.05am 
- Replacement card request made at 11.07am
- First card marked as cancelled at 11.14am
I think  the close proximity  in which  these actions took place, make it more probable than not,
that Mrs W was present  when the replacement  card was issued and the card which was
given back to Mrs W with her money was the replacement card ending 7916. Also, the card
Mrs W handed  to the cashier had expired in December 2016   so its possible and more
likely than not that the cashier replaced the card. And its plausible that as both cards had
the same long card number  (PAN)  with the only noticeable difference being  the expiry date
Mrs W mistook  the replacement card for her original card.
This is further supported  by the fact that when Mrs W visited  branch  B on 2 January  2019,
she had her card in her possession. During  this visit she reported the disputed  transactions
and her card was destroyed, a new card issued,  and her PIN number changed. After which
there were no further attempts made to withdraw  funds. If Mrs W, as she has claimed, was
never in possession  of card ending 7916 and her card was in possession of a fraudster, Id
expect to see further  attempts to withdraw funds  as the fraudster wouldnt have been
aware the card had been cancelled.
I wouldve also expected  the branch staff to have noticed the card in her possession was not
her replacement card and made  a note of this  or have discussed this when they called  the
fraud team   but Ive seen no evidence of this. So, on balance Im persuaded that the
replacement card ending 7916 was given to Mrs W on 23 August 2019.  And this card was
in her possession when the disputed  transactions took place and when she visited  branch B
Ref: DRN22035545on 2 January 2019.
Mrs W has said that she has never used her card to make cash withdrawals and always
visited a branch to withdraw funds over the counter. So, Ive carefully looked at the account
activity and I do agree with Mrs W that the disputed transactions spending pattern is not
typical of her prior use of the account.  But it is also not typical  of a fraudsters use of an
account i.e. transactions were made over a period of months rather than full use of the card
in quick succession.  So, Ive not placed too much weight  on this point,  but I think  its helpful
in building a picture.
Mrs W has said her card was kept in her purse, in her bag at home  and only she knew the
location of where it was kept. Mrs Ws testimony has also been consistent that the PIN for
her card was four random  digits  shed plucked  off the top of her head when she opened
the account.  She did not use this number for any other cards and/or  device, nor had she
written it down anywhere or shared it with anyone.  Ive also reviewed  the account activity
prior to the disputed transactions and can see Mrs W had never  used her card and PIN to
make any payments or to make cash withdrawals  so I cant  see there has been an
opportunity for someone to observe her entering her PIN.
Mrs W has said that CCTV footage from the supermarket where the debit card was used
several times to withdraw cash was viewed by the police.  They couldnt share  this with her
for data protections  reasons but have told her that it appears a gang or group  of individuals
were at the cash machine  at the time of the withdrawals. Mrs W has said some of the other
withdrawals were made at the Metro cash machine and if we were to obtain  CCTV, we
would see that the withdrawals were not made by her. We were unable  to obtain CCTV
footage due to the length of time that has passed but even if we did identify that someone
other than Mrs W had made the withdrawal - looking at the evidence  in this particular case, I
dont think I could go onto confidently say Mrs W didnt  authorise someone else to withdraw
the funds  which would  still make her liable.
Mrs W has maintained that she didnt  make the withdrawals herself. So, if someone else did
- they did so, using her card and her PIN. I must  therefore  consider how someone couldve
obtained and used her card on several occasions over a period of more than four months
without her noticing. And in considering that, I must also ask how that person  couldve taken
the card on 2 January  2019, used it at around 10am to make  a cash  withdrawal and then
known to return  the card to Mrs W, as she was going to visit the branch later to make a
withdrawal. Im not persuaded  these  were  the actions  of a fraudster or a third unknown party.
But Ive considered  the possibility  it couldve been someone  who knew Mrs W.
Mrs W shares her home with her husband and three of her daughters  so its possible any
one of them couldve known the whereabouts of her card and had access  to it. And they may
also have had the opportunity to take the card and replace it each time  which could  explain
the sporadic and irregular usage over a long period of time. But they would still have needed
to know  the PIN.
I cant  rule out the possibility that someone Mrs W knew made the transactions. But I have to
base my decision  on the evidence that has been shared with me. So, I think its most unlikely
that if the cash withdrawals  were made by someone other than Mrs W, they were  made
without her knowledge and consent  as there is no convincing explanation  for how anyone
couldve known her PIN. And I dont believe, given what Mrs W has said about her PIN that
someone wouldve  been  able to guess it correctly first time.
So, Im afraid I have to conclude in my view there are only two possible explanations here;
- Mrs W made the withdrawals herself; or
- she allowed someone else to make them;
Ref: DRN22035546I cant  with any certainty say which of the above is most likely  to have happened. It could be
that the cash  withdrawals were the result of a combination of these. But whether she made
them, and/or authorised someone else to make them, I dont believe it would be fair to say
that Metro should refund  them.
Miss W had also suggested  this could  be an inside job by someone at the bank. Ive
considered what Miss W has said and the only potential point at which this couldve occurred
was during Mrs Ws visit to branch B on 23 August  2018. However,  when a card is
produced in branch an audit is created that shows who issued the card and at what  time, so,
I think  the risk of being caught was seriously high and outweighed any potential  financial
gain. Metro branches are also open plan, with no partitions between  cashiers desks, so I
think its unlikely the cashier who served Mrs W couldve re-issued a new card,  generated a
PIN and retained  this without another member  of staff being aware.
Im also not persuaded  that if it was a member of staff, theyd risk using a cash  machine at
their place of work to withdraw funds. Metro have  also confirmed it has no record of any
such incidents  against  the cashier that served Mrs W and no reason  to believe they have
been acting in a fraudulent capacity in their role. So, taking everything into consideration
there isnt evidence  to support that what Miss W has suggested is whats happened here.
statements
Mrs W says she has never received statements  for her Metro bank  account. Had she
received them, she wouldve  reported the matter sooner. I appreciate  what Mrs W has said
but as Ive concluded the most likely explanation for the disputed card use is, in my view,
that Mrs W either made the withdrawals herself or consented  to someone else making them,
it makes no difference  whether she did or didnt receive  her statements. However, for the
sake of completeness,  after making  further enquires, I established Mrs W had opted  for paperless 
statements, but as Metro  did not hold a valid email address for her, it was unable
to send them.  So, I accept  Mrs W didnt get the statements. If she hasnt already done so,
she should speak with Metro and either provide her email address  or change  to paper
statements.
Im very sorry to send disappointing news and especially  after such  a lengthy  delay. I would
like to reassure Mrs W that Ive seriously considered all the evidence  and what shes said
before reaching my decision. But, based on the evidence, I think  its fair and reasonable for
Metro to refuse a refund  for the disputed cash machine  withdrawals.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from either
Mrs W or Metro Bank PLC, Im not currently intending  to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN2203554