K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that West Bromwich  Building Society declined  their application to 
switch their repayment mortgage to interest  only.
At the time of applying,  Mr and Mrs B said they were planning on reducing their working  
hours so wanted  to lower their monthly payments. They said they dont understand why 
West Bromwich  declined  the request on affordability  grounds  when  they were already  
struggling to make their contractual  monthly  payments  and switching to interest  only would 
have lowered these.  
Mrs B has handled the complaint throughout. 
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a capital repayment  mortgage with West Bromwich in 2009 for 
£337,202 over a term of 18 years.  
In July 2018, Mrs B approached West Bromwich  to switch her mortgage  to interest only as 
both she and her husband  were  planning  on reducing their working  hours. 
West Bromwich  declined  the request as Mr and Mrs Bs application didnt meet the 
affordability criteria based on their income and expenditure  and it had concerns about  the 
level of unsecured debt.  
Mrs B has said that they felt let down by West Bromwich because the society  didnt help 
them when they were struggling to make their full contractual monthly  payments. She says 
she requested to switch  from a repayment  mortgage  which  was costing them  around £1,200 
a month  to an interest only one at around  £200 per month and dont understand how it was 
fair for West Bromwich to decline this based  on the affordability criteria.  
Theyve said that whilst  they were  maintaining  their contractual  monthly  payment, they were 
finding this difficult  and dipping into their savings  to do so  and they felt let down that West 
Bromwich didnt help them.
Because West Bromwich  declined their application,  Mr and Mrs B redeemed their mortgage.  
They have since taken  an interest only mortgage with a different provider and have said that 
they are on a worse  rate than they would have  been  with West Bromwich and they had to 
pay an arrangement  fee. They would like West Bromwich to compensate  them for the stress 
caused, as well as the financial cost involved in taking  a mortgage elsewhere. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She concluded  that West 
Bromwich hadnt acted unfairly in declining the application  Mr and Mrs B disagreed  and 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
Ref: DRN27565552my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
affordability assessment
When Mrs B first contacted West Bromwich to apply to switch the mortgage to interest only, 
she was asked what the repayment  strategy would be. West Bromwich explained that they 
needed to see a credible plan, such as cash-based  investments  that could be relied upon to 
repay the mortgage at the end of the term, in order to approve the switch. Mrs B said that 
they have investments in the form of classic  cars that are worth around £60,000 but West 
Bromwich confirmed that this wouldnt fit their criteria as a credible  repayment  plan. 
Mrs B suggested that they could sell the house to repay the mortgage at the end of the term 
as they had a good  level of equity in the property. West Bromwich  explained that it is 
generally not in their policy  to rely on the sale of a property as a repayment vehicle but in this 
case allowed it as Mr and Mrs B held sufficient equity in the property. I consider they 
managed Mrs Bs expectations well at this early stage. 
Because they allowed  the application to proceed, West  Bromwich should give the request  to 
switch to interest-only fair consideration, and as part of this, they chose to carry out an 
affordability assessment  to see if this would have been suitable in Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances.  
Following a review of the mortgage market, new rules came into force in April 2014 which 
require lenders to conduct a detailed affordability  assessment. This includes a review  of a 
borrowers income and expenditure,  as well as any debts.  Although  Mr and Mrs B held an 
existing mortgage  with West Bromwich, and the rules allow  lenders to set aside affordability 
requirements for existing  customers in some circumstances, that doesnt apply where they 
were making a material change to the terms of their mortgage  unless the change  was 
otherwise in their best interests.
West Bromwich  declined  their application to switch because, based  on Mr and Mrs Bs 
income and expenditure, they didnt  think the mortgage would be affordable in the long run. 
The assessment showed  their income as being  a lot lower  than what  West Bromwich held 
on file and, on querying this, Mrs B said both her and her husband  were  already working part 
time and that she hadnt taken a salary  for a while. West Bromwich  also considered that Mr 
and Mrs B had a high level of unsecured  debt.
So due to Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, West Bromwich declined  the application. 
would it have been in Mr and Mrs Bs best interests to approve the application?
There are provisions in the relevant rules  (referred  to as transitional  arrangements  MCOB 
11.7) that say that a lender can set aside the results of an affordability assessment and 
approve an application for customers in Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances- provided it would 
otherwise be in their best interests  to allow the application. 
So, Ive considered whether West Bromwich acted fairly by using the results of the 
affordability assessment  to refuse  the application, when it could have been in Mr and Mrs Bs 
best interests to allow it. 
Ref: DRN27565553I understand Mr and Mrs Bs point  that it seems  illogical to decline their request as they were 
struggling to make their monthly payments and switching to interest only would have reduced 
these. But they didnt apply for a short-term measure, what  they asked for was a permanent 
change to their mortgage, so I think it reasonable for affordability  to be considered over the 
term of the mortgage.  Whilst  switching to an interest only mortgage  may have provided some 
relief in the short term by reducing the monthly payments, the capital of the mortgage does 
still need to be repaid  at the end of the term-  and would continue to attract  interest. 
I acknowledge Mrs Bs frustrations and am mindful  of the fact that she was doing  all she could 
to meet  the monthly  payments- including dipping into their savings. But if West Bromwich  were 
to approve the application, they would have  only been delaying  the issue and adding to the 
debt in the long run. I dont consider that it would have been in Mr and Mrs Bs best interests  to 
allow the switch.  
And here, affordability based on their income  wasnt the only reason West Bromwich  refused 
the application, it was also for the wider  issue of credit risk- including, but not limited  to their 
other debts.  As the unsecured debt stood at around  £30,000 and Mr and Mrs B were  not 
prepared to realise other assets, such as selling  the vintage cars, West Bromwich declined  
the application. 
I dont consider that West Bromwich acted unfairly  here. I say this as it wouldnt have been  
fair to allow Mr and Mrs B to switch  to interest only knowing they had debts that would make 
it difficult for them to keep up with mortgage  payments. If they could not maintain their 
payments or pay off the mortgage at the end of the term then they risk losing their home, 
which I dont consider is in their best interests.  
short term considerations
Whilst West Bromwich  said that they would  not approve a permanent switch from 
repayment to interest only, it did make  a different proposal to Mr and Mrs B to try to help 
them with their situation. 
This was a short-term switch to interest-only  until Mr and Mrs Bs deal ended, provided the 
credit card debt was cleared before the switch  completed.  Ive listened to the conversation 
the adviser had with Mrs B about this and understand that this was considered but that 
Mrs B wasnt  keen  to do this as it didnt  guarantee that they could switch. 
The adviser did ask if Mrs B wanted the application to be reconsidered  on the condition of the 
debts being repaid, but Mrs B didnt  want to proceed. Mr and Mrs B did have assets  in the 
form of vintage cars that theyve said were worth  more than the credit card debt. So, it was an 
option to sell these  to pay off the unsecured debt. As Mrs B was reluctant  to do this, I dont 
think West Bromwich  treated her unfairly here, they suggested an option to help them in their 
current situation. As Mrs B wasnt  keen  to proceed  with the application on the condition that 
the unsecured  debt was paid off, I wouldnt expect West  Bromwich to do anything further. 
conclusions
Taking everything into account,  I dont think West Bromwich acted unfairly in this case.  
I think it managed Mr and Mrs Bs expectations well, gave their application  fair consideration 
and tried to propose  solutions to help in the short term when the application  was declined. 
So I dont  think it would  be fair to uphold this complaint and I wont be asking West Bromwich 
to do anything further. 
Ref: DRN27565554my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2020.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2756555