K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that NewDay Limited  wont refund to him the money that he paid for a laptop 
computer. His complaint is made against NewDay under section  75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974.  
background
Mr C used his NewDay credit card in October 2016  to pay £574.97 for a laptop computer. He 
had some issues with the laptop and he made a claim  to NewDay  under  section  75 in 
December 2017   after the twelve month warranty had expired.  It asked him to provide an 
independent report  on the faults with the laptop.  He wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that there 
was insufficient  evidence that the laptop was of unsatisfactory quality or unfit for purpose at 
the point of sale  and he said that he couldnt  rely on Mr Cs assurances that there  was a 
fault with the laptop without the assistance of an independent report.  And he didnt agree 
that NewDay had acted inappropriately in declining Mr Cs claim.   
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded in 
detail and says,  in summary,  that:
hes repeatedly  explained the limitations  of an independent report;
hes provided a simple summary  of the proof which hes backed  up with video 
evidence;
the laptop is a branded, relatively  high-spec laptop which would be expected to 
provide several  days of use, several hours  a day as a laptop  for work use, student 
use and as a sole machine in a home environment;
the fault occurred the first time after six months,  but disappeared the next morning so 
he wasnt able to record the fault;
it then recurred more seriously  after a year when he recorded  the videos;
the laptop has had low usage and was only bought for holidays and other occasions 
when his other machines were tied up; and
the evidence  that hes provided  hasnt been appraised.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Cs complaint about  NewDay, I 
must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the retailer  
and that NewDays  response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not 
determining the outcome  of Mr Cs claim under  section 75 as only a court  would be able to 
do that.
Mr C bought a laptop  computer in October 2016. He says that there  was a fault with the 
laptop about six months later but the fault disappeared the next day. He says that the fault 
reoccurred more seriously about  six months later and that he recorded a video of the fault. 
But the laptops twelve month  warranty had expired  at that time,  he didnt return  the laptop to 
Ref: DRN25289872the retailer and he didnt make a claim  to NewDay until December 2017  about 14 months 
after he bought  the computer.
NewDay asked him to provide an independent  report about the fault but Mr C has refused to 
do so. I consider that it was fair and reasonable for it to ask Mr C to provide an independent  
report about the fault  and I dont consider that it had to rely on the evidence that hed 
provided. And in the absence of an independent report, I consider that it was fair and 
reasonable for it to conclude that Mr C hadnt  provided enough evidence to show  that thered 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the retailer.
Im not persuaded that NewDays response to Mr Cs claim was unfair or unreasonable. And 
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require NewDay 
to refund to Mr C any of the money  that he paid for the laptop or to require  it to arrange for 
the laptop to be repaired   or to take any other  action in response to his complaint.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2528987