K820x#14Complaint
Mr M has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) irresponsibly provided 
him with an overdraft facility in 2018. He says the application was completely unaffordable 
as he already had a significant amount of credit elsewhere.
Background
RBS provided Mr M with an overdraft of £750  in July 2018. One of our investigators looked 
at Mr Ms complaint. He thought the checks RBS carried out before granting this facility  were 
proportionate and so didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.  Mr M disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to look at his case.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. Id like to explain the reasons  for my decision.
Mr M says RBS shouldnt have given him his overdraft. I think  it would be helpful for me to 
start by explaining  that the relevant regulatory  rules in place at the time Mr M was provided  
with his overdraft  were set out in the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Consumer  Credit Sourcebook  (CONC).
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  And it says a firm had to consider the potential for the 
commitments under  the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact the customers 
financial situation  as well as the ability of the customer  to make repayments  as they fall due 
over the life of the regulated credit agreement, or for such  an agreement  which  is an open-
end agreement (like Mr Ms overdraft) , to make  payments within a reasonable period.
CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance  on the sorts  of things a lender  needs to bear in 
mind when considering  its obligations  under CONC 5.2.1.  Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm 
should consider  what  is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what  a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment 
or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit ..
CONC 5.3.1(2) then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences..
Ref: DRN20729962In practice, all of this meant that a lender  had to take proportionate steps to check  that a 
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable  manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender  had to gather 
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance  didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.  Any checks had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being  lent and when what was being  borrowed was due to be 
repaid. Ive kept all of this in mind when  thinking about whether RBS did what  it needed  to 
before agreeing to Mr Ms overdraft. 
As explained, Mr M was given what was an open-ended  credit facility. So overall this means 
the checks RBS carried  out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether  
Mr M would be able to repay  his overdraft within a reasonable period of time.
RBS says it carried out a credit check and it has provided us with the results  of that check.  
This showed that Mr M had no outstanding credit with RBS at that stage. The checks also 
showed that Mr M had one credit card with another provider.  Mr M says he had a 
significantly higher  amount  of credit outstanding with other providers and it isnt his fault if 
RBS checks didnt  pick this up.   
I accept that Mr Ms financial position  may well have been worse than credit check  carried  
out showed or in any information  he disclosed to RBS at the time. And it is possible that 
further checks might have told RBS this. But RBS was entitled reasonably entitled to rely on 
the credit  check it carried out. 
Given there wasnt any adverse information  shown on the credit check, or significant 
outstanding debts elsewhere  and the amount of credit being advanced was relatively low, I 
think RBS checks went far enough. In my view, the information obtained suggested that    
Mr M would be able to repay  £750 within a reasonable period of time,  without  undue  difficulty  
or borrowing further. And so I think it was reasonable for RBS to lend in these 
circumstances.   
I want to reassure Mr M that Ive looked  at everything hes provided and thought  about  
everything hes said. But having done  so, I think the checks RBS carried  out before giving 
him his overdraft were  reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. So I dont think 
that it did anything  wrong  here and Im not upholding his complaint. I appreciate  thisll  be 
disappointing for Mr M, but I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least  
feel his concerns have  been listened  to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2072996