K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the level of cover  provided by Allianz Insurance  Plc (Allianz).
background
Mr R held a warranty policy with Allianz. After his vehicle had reached 100,000 miles on the 
clock the level of cover reduced to exclude claims relating to wear and tear. Mr R considered 
this to be a significant reduction in cover and felt that his premiums  should have been 
reduced or refunded. He complained to us.  
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter but didnt  uphold the complaint. They  were  of 
the view that the terms and conditions of the policy  were clear, including  the limitation of 
cover after 100,000  miles.  They also were satisfied Mr R was provided with the relevant  
terms and conditions and was not obliged  to renew his policy if he no longer considered  it to 
be suitable for his needs. Mr R did not agree. The matter has therefore been passed  to me 
for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I too wont be upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. 
When Mr R took out his policy he was provided  with the terms and conditions, they state:
What is covered?
This warranty covers all factory-fitted mechanical  (excluding electric drive lithium  ion battery, 
pack, cells, charging  equipment or cabling and wiring) and electrical parts  (including  labour 
to fit them) of the covered vehicle against sudden electrical or mechanical  failure  or failure  
due to wear and tear (unless  the insured vehicle has exceeded 100,000 miles).
Wear and tear is covered  up to 100,000  miles from the date of first registration if it causes an 
electrical or mechanical  failure of the insured vehicle
I consider the above to be a clear  summation of cover and that Mr R should  have known 
from this the policy limitation.  Also, that he would still have been able to benefit  from the 
policy; for claims unrelated to wear and tear. As this information was available  to Mr R from 
the onset of his warranty, he could have  decided what to do when 100,000 miles 
approached. And he could have cancelled the policy after his vehicle had reached 100,000 
miles if he wished. 
The fact Mr R continued his policy is down to him. As I have said he could have cancelled it. 
As it wasnt cancelled I could really only consider compensation if it could be shown the 
policy no longer  provided  any benefit. That isnt the case. Mr R could still have made a valid 
claim under the policy, as long as the issue causing  trouble wasnt  due to wear  and tear. 
This also isnt an unusual term in warranty policies, as many  dont cover  wear and tear, or 
dont cover wear and tear after a certain  time.  That doesnt make them  unsuitable policies, 
as long as the limitations are clear.  
Ref: DRN25930932Finally Mr R thinks as the wear and tear cover  stopped his premium should have reduced.  
Setting the premium  as the risk varies over the years would be a decision for the insurer, 
and then Mr R can agree to pay it or seek cover elsewhere or self insure.  I cant see that the 
insurer promised anywhere  that the premium would be recalculated at 100,000 miles.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. I make no award  against Allianz Insurance  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2593093