K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  Capital One (Europe)  plc (CapOne) failed to remove late payment 
markers from her credit file after saying  it would do so and didnt warn  her what impact  non-
payments would have  on her credit file.
background
Miss O held two credit  cards  with CapOne.  As Miss O had financial difficulties, in December  
2017 it agreed to place  a hold on her accounts. This arrangement meant that interest and 
fees on both accounts were  suspended  - and she didnt have to make  minimum monthly  
payments whilst the arrangement was in place.   
In May 2018  Miss O phoned  the specialist support team to discuss  her situation. It was 
agreed the arrangement would be extended by a further six months. She said she still 
wanted to maintain her minimum monthly  payments  as she was keen to avoid adverse 
entries on her credit  file. She was told her best option was to pay by setting up a regular  
payment online.  
No payments were  made to her account  between May and October. She made  a further  call 
to the specialist support team in October. She was told that because  she hadnt maintained 
her minimum payments, late payment markers had been made on her credit file. She was 
also told her card facilities had been  withdrawn. She complains she didnt  understand the 
implications of failing to make minimum payments and nobody had given her a proper 
explanation. 
Miss O also complains she should have been allowed to set up a direct debit to make  her 
regular payments. She says this is the reason she didnt  keep her payments up to date. 
She also says that during two phone  calls on 18 and 25 October  2018  CapOne told her they 
would remove late payment markers from her credit file  but subsequently failed to do so. 
CapOne says it consistently gave Miss O accurate information. It says it correctly  applied the 
late payment markers to her credit file. And it adds  that it never agreed to remove these 
markers from her credit file  though it had agreed  to look into the matter  for her as a 
potential resolution  to her complaint. CapOne  also says it advised Miss O that its systems  
prevent it from setting up a direct  debit when an account is on hold  and so it cant be held 
responsible for her account  falling into arrears.  
Our investigator looked into Miss Os complaint and concluded CapOne shouldnt have 
misled Miss O by saying it would look into removing  the late markers  from her credit file. 
However she felt the late markers were correctly applied and so it wouldnt be appropriate 
for them to be removed. She also says that, having listened to the calls,  she doesnt  agree 
that CapOne said at any time it would remove the late markers from Miss Os credit  file.
Our investigator felt CapOne had acted reasonably by offering Miss O an alternative 
payment method when a direct  debit payment was unavailable.
Miss O didnt  agree with our investigators  view, therefore this matter has been passed to me 
for a decision.
Ref: DRN20219642my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator did. Ill explain why.
The key issues I need to decide  are: whether Miss O was given a proper explanation about  
the impact on her account of not maintaining regular payments; whether CapOne acted 
correctly when they refused her request to set up a direct debit to her account; and whether 
the late payment  markers applied to her account should be removed.
Ive taken into account when compiling my findings that Miss O experiences difficulties 
remembering information which she has been told in person. I can see from its detailed  case 
notes that CapOne is aware Miss O needs  additional help and support, and Miss O also 
raises these issues herself in some  of the phone conversations Ive listened to. Im satisfied 
that where required, CapOne has followed up phone conversations in writing  and has 
provided Miss O with clear written information.  In my opinion the steps  it took to tailor  its 
service and cater for Miss Os needs were proportionate and reasonable in this case. 
was Miss O correctly advised what would  happen if she didnt  maintain  regular  payments to 
her account?
 
Miss O says she wasnt told by CapOne  how she should maintain her account in a way that 
would avoid her credit rating being  harmed. Ive looked at a previous complaint made 
against CapOne by Miss O, which was dealt with in August 2017  by an ombudsman  at our 
service. In this previous  matter, Miss O also complained  she didnt understand the 
implications of missing regular payments whilst her account was under a special 
arrangement. Its clear to me that Miss O was made aware on this occasion that late 
markers are applied if regular payments are missed; so I cant  agree  that Miss O wouldnt 
have been aware  in this case that late markers  would be applied if she didnt make the 
minimum monthly payments.  
Ive listened to the phone conversation which  took place in May 2018  between Miss O and a 
representative from the specialist support team. During this call Miss O made it clear she 
wanted to keep up minimum monthly  repayments to her accounts, and she was given an 
explanation about the amount  of these payments and how she could make  them.
At Miss Os request this phone call was followed up by a letter  which provided clear 
instructions about  how to set up a standing order. These instructions included  CapOnes 
bank details. The letter  also explained the consequences of failing to maintain minimum 
monthly payments.  It said that missed payments would be reported to the credit  bureau,  and 
it also pointed out the risk her card facility  could be withdrawn. So I cant agree Miss O was 
never told about how to maintain her account. And I feel CapOne took reasonable steps to 
explain to Miss O both verbally and in writing what would happen if she didnt maintain her 
payments.
should Miss O have been allowed to make monthly  payments by direct debit?
Miss O also complains she wasnt allowed  to set up a direct debit to make  regular payments 
to her account. During the phone conversation in May, the advisor  told her a direct debit 
wasnt a suitable  method  of payment, and she should instead  set up a standing order. 
Ref: DRN20219643Ive established  that the reason CapOne doesnt recommend direct  debits as a method of 
payment to customers in arrears is that their systems are set up to automatically  take any 
arrears which  are owed. Whilst on the face of it this may appear inflexible, I recognise that 
this is how its payment systems are designed. 
And importantly CapOne were able to provide Miss O with an alternative way of making her 
regular payments. This option was to make her monthly payments by standing order.  In my 
view this is a reasonable compromise - and when  Miss O was advised  this is what she 
should do, she didnt challenge the suggestion;  instead she asked  for the necessary 
information in writing. The advisor  agreed  and the follow-up letter she was sent repeated all 
the key information she had been told on the phone. 
should late payment  markers be removed from Miss Os account?
Miss O complains  she was never  told about when late markers  may be added  to her credit  
file and so she feels her credit file should be amended. However as Ive explained,  the 
consequences of failing  to maintain minimum monthly payments had already been explained 
to her before this matter arose.
Ive listened to various phone calls which took place between 18 and 25 October  2018.  
During these calls Miss O asks about markers  on her credit  file and shes  told that, to 
prevent markers  appearing, she would  need to make minimum monthly  payments. She 
agrees to set up a standing order and when she asks how to do so she is given  instructions  
both verbally and followed up in writing. However  she didnt set up a regular payment and 
therefore no payments  were made.  
Miss O says shes  been unfairly  treated and so wants her credit file amended.  In one call an 
advisor agrees  to see if theres anything that can be done about entries on her credit file. 
However it later becomes  apparent during  the call that Miss Os account is now so overdue  
that the matters  progressed  too far  and its now inevitable that late markers will have  to be 
applied to her account. This is because shes missed seven payments in a row. 
Its clear from the conversations I have listened to that various advisors  at CapOne are 
sympathetic towards  Miss O and her situation and theyre keen to do what  they can to assist 
her. I feel in attempting  to help her they may at times have implied that they may be able to 
remove late payment markers  as a way of resolving  her complaint. This is regrettable. But 
Miss O isnt told at any time that CapOne  has agreed to remove  any late markers  from her 
account.
I dont think it would  be reasonable to ask CapOne to remove  entries  on Miss Os credit file 
as they were correctly  applied and so accurately reflect the way she has maintained her 
credit card account.
Ref: DRN20219644my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and so Im not asking Capital  One 
(Europe) plc to take any further  action in this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2019.
Jon Speed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2021964