K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank  Plc wont refund him for money spent using his debit card, 
which he says he didnt  make.
background
Some of the background to this complaint isnt as clear as it might be because Mr S cant  
remember key information about  dates and locations that would help. He says this is 
because he travels a lot. So I hope both parties  will accept what follows as a brief summary 
of what happened. All the dates are 2017, unless  noted otherwise.
Mr S saw three  transactions  on his bank account,  which he didnt recognise   so he 
contacted TSB. The bank  told him these were  for hotel bookings  through an online company 
that Ill call L  on 13 October. The bookings covered 13  19 October. Mr S said he hadnt 
used his debit  card to make those bookings.
TSB looked into things  but said it wouldnt refund Mr S. This was because its records  
showed the full details  from his debit card had been used to make  the bookings   and 
through the same internet connection  (IP address) that had been used on 12 October to 
access Mr S online  banking.
During Mr S dealings with TSB over this matter the bank wrongly noted something about  
him on its records. Mr S wasnt happy about this. TSB accepted  it had got this wrong  but 
assured Mr S its comments  were  purely  internal and not reported elsewhere,  including on his 
credit record. But it paid him £25 to make up for the error and the upset itd caused.
Mr S wasnt  happy with TSBs decision.  So he contacted us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr S complaint.  But she didnt think TSB should refund 
him the money  either.  She looked  at TSBs  records and could see the three bookings  had 
been approved  using  the full information from Mr S debit card.  Hed confirmed hed always 
had his card with him  and he hadnt told anybody else his online banking details.
At the time the bookings  were made,  Mr S says he was staying with his girlfriend overseas. 
And Mr S confirmed his debit card had been used for genuine spending at this time. So that 
meant it was unlikely anybody other than Mr S would have been able to book the hotels, 
which are in the same country where  Mr S was staying with his girlfriend.
Mr S said at one point hed lent his phone to a friend or family member  around this time  but 
he couldnt remember who this was. But he was sure they wouldnt have used it to access 
his online  banking  or to make the bookings.
Our investigator established the name of the person  in whose name the hotel  bookings  were 
made in. Ill call him Mr X. And Mr S bank statements showed there had been several 
transfers between  Mr S and Mr X over the period  from October  2017  to September  2018. So 
she thought it was most likely Mr S had authorised the spending on his debit  card and come 
to some arrangement  with Mr X about  splitting the cost.
And in concluding that Mr M had most likely  authorised the spending,  the investigator had 
considered the requirements of the Payment Services Regulation (PSRs)  as these  set out 
whats needed for a bank  to hold a customer liable for spending in circumstances like this.
Ref: DRN25670522Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He was adamant  he hadnt made the bookings or 
allowed anybody else to do so using his debit card. Mr S thought  we should be pursuing L to 
get information that showed he wasnt responsible for the spending.
Because Mr S didnt  agree  with what the investigator said,  his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr S feels quite  strongly about whats happened here. Thats  clear  from what  hes 
said to TSB and to our investigator. And that isnt surprising. The amount involved is close  to 
£850. So hes bound to be concerned.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr S that I agree  with the investigator. Indeed,  there isnt a great 
deal I can add to what shes  already  said. I think the investigators set out in some  detail  the 
various things shes  had to consider.
That said,  its important I reassure Mr S that Ive considered his complaint afresh  and 
independently of what the investigator  has done.
Clearly it isnt helpful that Mr S cant remember key information about what  happened. It 
seems strange that despite raising the matter  with TSB only 10 days after the disputed 
spending took place, Mr S couldnt  be sure about  where hed been at various times  and 
who hed lent his phone to.
Because of this, I have to base my decision on the evidence that is available. And for those 
areas where  the information isnt complete or contradictory  as some of it is here  I have to 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened.
Ive looked at TSBs records.  And they show the full details for Mr S debit card were used to 
book the hotels. For clarity, I should say the records refer to the payments being requested 
by a company  name other than L. But this is purely an administrative arrangement   and is 
probably confirmed  on the booking details  themselves. Im satisfied  the money was for the 
bookings made  either direct with  or through  L.
Mr S says that we should pursue L to show that he didnt make the bookings. In fact L has 
provided some information. And it doesnt help Mr S  rather  the opposite. It confirms the 
same IP address was used to make the bookings  as that used to access  Mr S online 
banking with TSB on 12 October. This further supports the likelihood  of Mr S authorising the 
spending.
I cant ignore the evidence (again  from L) that the bookings were made in the name of Mr X. 
And it seems clear  from TSBs records that Mr S has had a number of dealings with Mr X 
over a period  of some months.
Ref: DRN25670523Ive considered carefully the requirements  of the PSRs, and the guidance of the Financial  
Conduct Authority,  around  authorisation of spending. And, on this occasion, Im satisfied 
TSB can hold Mr S responsible for it. The bank doesnt have to refund Mr S the spending 
hes disputed.
All of the available evidence points to it being  most  likely that Mr S spent  the money himself. 
Or that somebody known  to him did so with his consent. I realise thats a difficult message to 
give. But I can see why the investigator  would think there had been  some form of agreement  
to split the cost of the bookings between Mr S and Mr X.
I realise Mr S will be disappointed with my decision.  But it brings to an end what  we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with TSB informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr S any 
further on this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2567052