K820x#14Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc suspended his accounts while they 
carried out a review and didnt  give him a reason. Mr S was in another country at the time 
and didnt have  access to his money.  As a result, some of Mr Ss Direct Debits  werent paid.
Background
In January 2019, Nat West carried out a review on Mr Ss account.  The account was 
suspended while they carried out their review. At the time, Mr S was in another country and 
couldnt access his money. And he said some of his Direct Debits werent paid because of it. 
He says this caused him a lot of stress.
Mr S is also unhappy because Nat West didnt give him a reason. He tried to call them 
several times and incurred high call charges  which he wants  Nat West to reimburse.
The bank responded to Mr Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. They  said they had reviewed 
their actions and were happy  it was the right decision  but they didnt give any further 
information. Mr S remained unhappy, so he brought  his complaint to our service.
The investigator who looked at things didnt  think Nat West had acted unfairly. He said while  
he recognised  how frustrating this situation would have been for Mr S, Nat West acted  in line 
with their legal  and regulatory obligations  and did so without any delays. And because  he 
didnt think theyd acted  unfairly  he didnt  think they should compensate Mr S.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review things.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator. I know this will disappoint Mr S, so Ive explained my 
reasons further  below.
I recognise how frustrating it must  have  been for Mr S to realise he couldnt use his account. 
And I appreciate this put him in a financially challenging position  because he didnt  have 
access to his funds   especially because he was on holiday. But a bank  cant always 
guarantee that funds in an account  are readily available.
Ive considered Nat Wests  actions  when reviewing and subsequently suspending Mr Ss 
account. And, based on what Ive seen, like the investigator, Im satisfied they acted in line 
with their obligations. Nat West, like all UK banks,  are strictly  regulated and must take 
certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Based on what  Ive 
seen, Im satisfied Nat West were acting  in line with these obligations when reviewing Mr Ss 
account. 
I appreciate Mr S doesnt think what Nat West did was decent. He says he had to get friends 
to send him money so he could continue his holiday. This must have been really  worrying  for 
him. But I must consider whether Nat West were wrong in their actions  and, based  on the 
evidence, they werent.  So, while I understand how strongly Mr S feels  about  this, I cant 
fairly say Nat West were  wrong in their actions.
Ref: DRN20019902I havent seen  that Nat West caused  any unnecessary delays  when reviewing Mr Ss 
account. I say that because it appears the blocks were  placed and removed all within  7 
working days. And I dont think this timeframe  to carry out a review is unreasonable.
I recognise Mr S would like Nat West to give him an explanation for their actions  he says 
hes been a good customer over the years, and I dont doubt  that. But a bank isnt obliged  to 
give an explanation  when they review  an account. However, Id like to reassure  Mr S that 
based on the evidence Ive seen,  Im satisfied Nat West acted appropriately in the 
circumstances. 
Nat West made the decision to close Mr Ss account following their review  and gave him 
60 days notice  which theyre entitled to do. I understand Mr S closed the account  before 
the final date by switching his account to another provider. Mr S said Nat West didnt transfer 
all his Direct Debits successfully, but I havent seen any evidence of this and therefore 
havent considered it as part of my review.
Overall, I recognise how strongly Mr S feels about  whats happened.  So, I realise hell be 
disappointed by my decision. But overall, based on the evidence  Ive seen, I cant say 
Nat West have acted  unreasonably  or treated Mr S unfairly when they reviewed and closed 
his account. So, Im not going to ask them  to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2001990