K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy with Santander UK Plc as he thinks one of their employees has accessed 
his personal data when they shouldnt have  and this has caused him some distress. Hes 
also not happy with how Santander have handled his complaint.
background
Mr R has been in a private dispute with an individual (who  I will call E) who is also a 
Santander employee. He believes that individual has exploited  his position at the bank in 
order to obtain  information about  his financial position.
When Mr R complained to Santander about this matter, he says the complaint-handler  didnt 
seem sure about what to do with his complaint, as it was about a member  of staff.  But they 
did eventually tell him it had been  passed to a specialist  team.
Mr R says he then had to chase his complaint up, as he didnt get a reply. And, a few 
months later, Santander explained that the person who was originally dealing  with his 
complaint had left the bank. He says Santander  explained that, while his complaint was 
being looked into, they wouldnt be able to give him any information about  it  including the 
outcome  because  it was an internal  investigation  about a member  of staff.
Unhappy with their answer, Mr R brought his complaint  to our service.
After Mr R brought the complaint to us, he mentioned a further incident with E  where 
financial information was disclosed to a third party, in turn affecting  Mr Rs relationship with 
that individual.  
I sent out a provisional decision giving both parties  the opportunity to provide any further 
information they wanted me to consider.
In summary,  my provisional decision said:
Although Mr R had also made  a complaint  to the Information Commissioners  Office 
(ICO), I was satisfied  our service could still investigate this complaint, as the ICO isnt 
an alternative dispute resolution entity and doesnt look to compensate individual  
customers.
My role was to look into what Santander was responsible for  and how E had acted 
in his capacity  as their member of staff. Outside of that, Mr Rs complaint is largely a 
civil one  and thats not something our service is set up to deal with.
Id seen a video where Mr R had an altercation  with E  and E did make a reference 
to Mr Rs financial situation.  But Santander  had taken steps to see if thered been a 
data breach and I was satisfied it was unlikely there had been one from the evidence 
provided. I thought  E had likely found  out the information from another source  but I 
couldnt hold Santander responsible for that.
Regarding the out-of-court settlement Mr R alleges E made, I didnt think  this was 
unusual in the circumstances and didnt  think it meant Santander needed to do 
anything more.
I didnt think there  was enough  evidence about the later incident for Santander to 
take further action  about this.
I agreed Santander couldve done  more  when communicating with Mr R after hed 
complained but didnt  think they needed  to compensate him for this.
Ref: DRN27891952Overall, I didnt  think Mr Rs complaint should  be upheld.
Santander havent sent in any further  information  for me to consider. But Mr R has made a 
number of points.  Having carefully reviewed  these, Ive still decided not to uphold  Mr Rs 
complaint. I know he feels very strongly  about this, so Im sure hell be disappointed by my 
decision  but Ive explained  below  why I dont think his further comments make a difference.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Im not upholding       
Mr Rs complaint.
I havent specifically  commented on every point  Mr R has made, as Ive focussed on the 
things that are material to the outcome  but I have carefully considered them  all when 
making my final decision.
Mr R has said E breached of the code of conduct set out by our service, because  he works 
where Mr R banks and has publicly discussed his account in detail. He adds that E has not 
confirmed where he got the information that was disclosed from  so Mr R suggests  that 
either Santander or another colleague of Es is responsible.
Its clear to me from the video evidence Mr R supplied that E does know information  about 
Mr Rs personal  finances   which E must  have got from somewhere. But my role here is only 
to see if Santander  should be held accountable for this  not to find out where  else he 
mightve got this information. And the evidence Ive seen suggests Santander are not 
responsible.
Mr R says that E also has a duty to report any instance of information being  shared with him 
about someone elses bank account details  and he cant see that E has been  asked  about  
this. Santander  conducted an internal investigation  about E  and much of that has been 
kept confidential, as Santander  have treated this as an employee disciplinary issue. So, I 
dont know if E was asked  about this specifically. But from everything that Mr R and 
Santander have  disclosed, I dont have  any evidence  to show  E did receive information from 
another member  of staff  or anything else to show that Santander  are accountable for any 
data breach. And Mr R hasnt provided  any new evidence in response to my provisional 
decision to support this.
In my provisional decision I said Santander couldve  communicated  with Mr R much  better   
and shouldve offered him better  reassurances  about what was happening with his 
complaint. Mr R asks  as I accept  this  what makes me think Santander have been 
compliant when dealing with his and other  peoples complaints.
I can only comment on Mr Rs case.  The shortcomings Ive observed in Santanders 
handling of Mr Rs complaint are separate from whether theyve been compliant with what  
they were required  to do. Ive seen nothing to suggest  they werent taking the steps  they 
needed in order  to check out if there had been a data breach  and Im satisfied  with the 
information theyve  provided me to show this. Their  failure, in my eyes, was how they 
conveyed what was going on to Mr R  and I think they couldve given him more meaningful 
updates.
Ref: DRN27891953Mr R says as the ICO and our service  are separate entities, we shouldnt be reliant  on each 
other, as we deal with different situations. But I can consider any information relevant to this 
complaint  including information from the ICO  while looking into the key areas that our 
service has jurisdiction to investigate. And while Ive referred to the ICOs outcome, Ive 
made my own independent  decision  about what I think happened.
To summarise, it is clear  to me that E has obtained  some personal information about  Mr R 
and this has caused him a lot of upset   and I understand his strength of feeling about  
whats happened. But Ive seen no evidence that E specifically  obtained  this information 
through his position as an employee of Santanders.  As thats  the case, I cannot hold 
Santander responsible for this  even  though  E was an employee of theirs  at the time. 
So, for the reasons given in my provisional decision and here, Ive decided not to uphold  
Mr Rs complaint  and I dont think Santander need  to do anything  different.
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint about  Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Guy Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2789195