K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the way Neil Giles admi nistered their resid ential let, holiday 
home and unoccupie d insurance  policy and think that caused their insurer  to decline a claim 
made under  the policy for dama ge caused by a water leak.
background
Mr and Mrs D own a residential  property  that they used  to let out. The tenant moved  out in 
August 2017.
Their insurance was arranged by Neil Giles. Mr and Mrs D say they told Neil Giles  in 
August 2017 and on 15 March 2018 that the property was empty. The policy  was 
renewed on 1 April 2018.
On 11 April 2018 Mrs D contacted Neil Giles to report a claim for water  damage due to 
a burst  pipe.  She says she was told her policy wouldnt cover  the damage as the 
insurer wasnt aware that the property was empty. She says she was told to take out a 
new policy at a much higher premium and to delay  making the claim until it was in 
place. Mr and Mrs D say they did that. But the insurer still declined  the claim.
Mr and Mrs D complained  to Neil Giles  that:
   their policy hadnt been updated  in line with the information theyd given it to reflect 
the fact the property  was empty;
   theyd been sold a new policy unnecessarily after theyd  tried to make  a claim; and
   theyd been incorrectly advised  not to claim until the new policy was in place.
Neil Giles said it had no record of receiving  a call, email or written  confirmation in August  
2017 to notify  it that Mr and Mrs Ds property was unoccupied. It said on 2 March 2018  it had 
emailed the renewal quotation to Mrs D. That documentation had referred to the property 
being rented.  It said on 15 March  2018  Mrs D had called it and according to its notes shed 
said the property  was being sold but completion  of the sale would probably not take place  
until May. She arranged  to pay the premium by monthly instalments. It said there was no 
record of it being  told that the property was unoccupied.
Mr and Mrs D brought  their complaint to this service. I issued a provisional  decision 
explaining why I was minded not to uphold their complaint. An extract  from my provisional  
findings is set out below:
According to Neil Giles Mr and Mrs Ds claim for water damage was declined  by their 
insurer because under the policy they had at that time they were only covered for fire, 
lightning, explosion and earthquake  after the property had been unoccupied for more  than 
30 consecutive days. I understand  Mr and Mrs D say theyd stayed at the property and it 
wasn't left unoccupied for 30 consecutive days. But thats not something I can consider 
under this complaint. If they remain  unhappy  about their claim being declined  on that 
ground, they should complain to their insurer if they havent already done so.
Unfortunately Neil Giles  doesnt record its phone calls. But it does have an event  log 
showing all the activity on Mr and Mrs Ds account. This appears  to be a comprehensive 
document. Theres no record of a call from Mrs D to Neil Giles in August 2017. Mrs D 
hasnt been  able to provide any evidence showing that such a call took place. In view of 
Ref: DRN23312592this I cant fairly say that its more likely than not that in August 2017  Mrs D told Neil Giles 
the property was unoccupied.
The quotation emailed  to Mrs D on 2 March contained a warning  to tell the broker if the 
property was to be unoccupied for any continuous period exceeding 30 days.
The inform ation Mr and Mrs D were asked to check included the following:
     Is the property rente d or unoccupi ed?
     How is the property rente d?
     Type of Tenant?Rented 
Privately 
Employed
Mr and Mrs D say they didnt check the renewal terms in any detai l.
I also need to consider  the phone call on 15 March. The purpose  of the call seems to have 
been for Mrs D to arrange to pay the premium  in instalments. This was an advised sale and 
Neil Giles recommended  the cover  to Mr and Mrs D. I think  that means it was the 
responsibility of Neil Giles  to ask all the necessary questions in order  to obtain all the 
appropriate information so that it could identify suitable cover. I cant  be sure whether Mrs D 
did tell Neil Giles during that call that the property was no longer occupied. But its not in 
dispute that she did say the property was on the market for sale and completion was 
expected to take place  two months  later. Properties  can be sold subject to an existing 
tenancy but its more usual  for them to be sold with vacant possession. I think the 
information that the property was likely to be sold in the relatively  near future should have 
prompted Neil Giles  to check  whether  the property was still occupied by a tenant. So Im not 
persuaded that Neil Giles  took all the necessary steps to ensure that the policy  was still 
suitable for Mr and Mrs D.
But in order to require  Neil Giles  to make good the loss Mr and Mrs D have suffered, they 
must also have suffered  the loss as a result of its failings. In this case Im not persuaded 
that the failure to ask Mrs D whether the property  was still occupied did prejudice Mr and 
Mrs D. Thats because Mrs Ds told us she thought she and Mr D would have been covered 
under the policy  that they originally had as theyd stayed at the property on numerous 
occasions and so the "unoccupied" exclusion wouldnt have been relevant as the property  
wasn't left empty for 30 consecutive days.  So on balance I think  its likely  even  if Neil Giles 
had asked in the phone  call whether the property  was unoccupied as defined by the policy  
that Mrs D wouldnt have  agreed that it was.
Once Mr and Mrs D made a claim, Neil Giles  was on notice  that the property was no 
longer occupied by a tenant. At that point it was obliged to pass the information on to the 
insurer and it was up to the insurer how it reacted to that change.  I dont think its the fault 
of Neil Giles that the insurer decided to increase  the premium and reduce the cover 
because of the change in risk.
Mr and Mrs D feel they were  incorrectly  advised  not to make a claim until the new terms of 
cover were  in place. I havent seen any evidence to support  that. In fact as soon as hearing  
about the damage Neil Giles seems  to have advised  them  of the number on which  they 
should contact  the insurer to make  a claim. The revised terms only apply from after the 
damage happened. If Mr and Mrs D feel they should  be covered for their loss by the terms 
that applied up to date of the policy change, they may wish to pursue this with their insurer.
Ref: DRN23312593Neil Giles said he had nothing further  to add after receiving my provisional decision.  In 
summary Mrs D said:
She and her husband had used Neil Giles as their family broker for over 26 years.  Their  
relationship was based on trust and theyd  had numerous telephone conversations  when 
changes needed  to be made  to their policies which  werent always confirmed in writing.  
Shed told Neil Giles about the property being  empty as theyd  been  having conversations 
previously about  the tenants having to be evicted.
Neil Giles  had told her not to worry because  he had professional  indemnity insurance  to 
cover liability if hed made a mistake.
Neil Giles  definitely told her not to contact the insurer about  the claim until the revised 
policy was in place.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate what Mrs D has said about her relationship with Neil Giles  being based on trust 
and changes not always having to be confirmed in writing. But unfortunately for Mrs D this 
doesnt persuade  me that she told Neil Giles in either August 2017  or in early  2018 the 
property had become  unoccupied. Neither  party  has any record  of such  conversations 
whereas Neil Giles  made a relatively  detailed record of the conversation with Mrs D before 
renewal in March 2018.
Insurance brokers, like other  professional people, are legally responsible to their clients  for 
any loss or damage  caused by their failure to use reasonable care.  So they usually have  
professional indemnity insurance in place  to protect  them against claims for negligence. I 
dont think Neil Giles was necessarily admitting  negligence when he mentioned  his indemnity 
insurance to Mrs D. I think its more likely that he was trying to reassure  her that if his firm 
had made  a mistake, hed be able to claim on his insurance policy.
There are a number of reasons why Neil Giles might have told Mrs D not to make a claim to 
her insurer  until the new cover was in place. For example, he might  thought  it was in Mr and 
Mrs Ds best interests if he explained  the change in occupancy to the insurer. But at the end 
of the day I cant see that Mr and Mrs D were worse  off as a result  of this. It shouldnt  have 
made any difference to whether their claim was declined. I appreciate that they had to pay a 
lot more for the revised cover but insurance  costs are generally  higher for unoccupied 
properties and the alternative would have been to go without appropriate cover.  I think  it 
unlikely that Neil Giles  meant that if they paid more for revised  cover  their claim would be 
accepted because an insurer would be unlikely to agree to backdate the revised  cover  
knowing the circumstances.
Overall, despite having taken  Mrs Ds comments into account,  I see no reason to change  my 
provisional findings and they now form part of these findings.
Ref: DRN23312594my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2331259