K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly lent 
to him.
background
This complaint is about ten short-term  loans Sunny provided to Mr P between July 2017 and 
November 2018.  Mr Ps borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 01/07/2017 15/12/2017 Instalment £150.00
2 21/02/2018 10/08/2018 Instalment £100.00
3 22/02/2018 10/08/2018 Instalment £100.00
4 03/03/2018 17/08/2018 Instalment   £50.00
5 27/03/2018 09/09/2018 Instalment £100.00
6 14/08/2018 25/11/2019 Instalment £200.00
7 26/08/2018 05/11/2018 Instalment   £50.00
8 29/08/2018 25/11/2019 Instalment £100.00
9 10/09/2018 25/11/2019 Instalment £100.00
10 05/11/2018 25/11/2019 Instalment £100.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ps complaint  and thought  the loans from loan five 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Our adjudicator  also thought  all information about the 
borrowing from loan six was adverse and Sunny should remove all information  about them  
form Mr Ps credit  file.
Sunny disagreed but did offer to uphold the complaint about loans six to ten. It later offered 
to uphold the complaint from loan five but its offer only included interest and charges and not 
the 8% interest  I would expect to see. Mr P declined the offer.  
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me in my role as ombudsman to 
decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr P could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN21245942But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr P didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to four shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there  is any ongoing  disagreement about  these  loans. And 
Sunny has already agreed to uphold  loans six to ten.So I wont be making a decision about 
this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing relationship Mr P had with Sunny. So, 
it is something I will take into account  when considering the other  loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan five would most likely  have 
shown that Mr P wasnt managing his finances. I say this because I note that he had loans 
running concurrently. As an example  when  Mr P took loan three,  loan two was still running. 
And I also note that loan three had been  taken out the day after loan two. Such a frequency  
in Mr P returning for additional  borrowing  and for the same amount as previously borrowed 
 could have been an indication that Mr P was struggling.  This may have suggested to 
Sunny that Mr P was borrowing further to repay  current lending.
By the time loan five was taken, it was in the same month as loan four  March  2018  and 
for double  the amount. Again I think it should have sign posted to Sunny that Mr P may not 
have been coping with his finances  and Sunny should have either  looked  further  into his 
financial position or questioned whether  it should have carried on lending to him. 
Ref: DRN21245943So, like the adjudicator Im also upholding the complaint about loan five and Sunny should 
put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do  Ive included loans six to ten for 
completeness
I understand loans  six to ten are outstanding. If the outstanding balance  due on Mr Ps 
loans has been  transferred to a third party Sunny should buy the loans back  if it can. If 
Sunny cant buy the loans  back,  then it needs  to work with the third party  to make sure the 
following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards interest,  fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr P which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr P as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results  in Mr P having made  overpayments  then Sunny should refund  these  
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
Sunny should  then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step 
E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should  be paid to Mr P. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan 
with Mr P. 
E) Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation to loan 
five. 
The number of loans  taken from loans six onwards means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So, all entries  about  loans six to ten should be removed from 
Mr Ps credit  file. Sunny does not have to remove loans six to ten from Mr Ps credit 
file until these have  been repaid, but any adverse information recorded about these 
loans should still be removed.
                                                                                                                                 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he she asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr P still has an outstanding  balance due, then Sunny should try 
and work  together to come  to a mutually  agreeable repayment plan with Mr P in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind Sunny of its obligation to treat Mr P fairly.  
Ref: DRN21245944my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ps complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2124594