K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains that the charges and commission imposed on his pension  plans by Scottish 
Equitable Plc (trading  as Aegon)  were  unfair.  He says they significantly eroded the value of 
his plans. 
background
In 1990 Mr N took out two Aegon pension plans through a financial adviser.  He took out a 
Reflex pension plan in his personal name and an Exsel pension  plan in his companys name. 
Mr N continued paying into each plan for some years. In 2000  he sold the existing funds 
within the plans  and switched them all into the Aegon Technology fund.
In 2010 Mr N transferred  both plans away from Aegon to another provider.
In 2018 he complained to Aegon about the charges and commission applied to his plans. 
Mr N explained he had only recently become aware of changes  within  the financial services 
industry which banned commission payments. He felt the transfer values of his pension  
plans in 2010 were much  lower than they should  have been.  Mr N believed  the charges and 
commission levied by Aegon  was the reason for this.
Aegon didnt uphold  Mr Ns complaint about  the charges. It said Mr N had taken  out his 
plans through  a financial adviser whereas Aegon had only provided  the plans. So, it wasnt 
Aegons role to decide whether the plan was suitable for him or explain the charges to him.
Mr N referred  his complaint to our service. It was considered by an adjudicator  who didnt 
uphold Mr Ns complaint.  The adjudicator  felt the task of disclosing fees and commission  
was the responsibility  of the firm who advised Mr N. So he didnt  think Aegon could be held 
responsible.
Mr N disagreed. He said Aegon shouldnt be allowed to enact any pension  plan that was so 
punitive as to make the final outcome for the customer not fit for purpose. He said this was 
regardless of what the financial  advisor  may, or may not, have said to the customer. Mr N 
said Aegon had a responsibility to ensure that a fair outcome, in terms of eventual pension  
provision, was possible.
Mr N asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 1990 Mr N took out two pension plans. The plans were administered  by Aegon but I am 
satisfied on balance that it didnt give Mr N any advice in relation to taking out the plans. Ill 
explain why I think this.
Aegon says its records indicate the plans  were sold by another  company who I shall refer to 
as business A. 
Ref: DRN22096942This is supported by the content of the application form as business  As details are recorded 
as the financial  adviser.  In addition there  is correspondence from Aegon to this business 
enclosing Mr Ns policy documents. I consider on balance that Aegon sent that 
documentation to business A because business A was acting on Mr Ns behalf  as his 
financial adviser. I note that the illustration prepared at the time says it was prepared  for 
Mr N at the request  of business A. 
Overall I am satisfied on balance that Aegon wasnt responsible for advising Mr N as to 
whether he should  take out the plans. 
There is an important distinction in the roles  played by the adviser and the provider. The 
adviser makes recommendations to the consumer and has to recommend suitable financial 
products for that individual taking into account their circumstances and objectives. As 
business A gave  the advice to Mr N it was its responsibility to explain any commission  and 
charges that applied  and how they operated. 
The provider, in this case Aegon, has different responsibilities- two of which  are to 
administer the plan properly and carry out the instructions of the plan holder. For instance 
Mr N instructed Aegon in 2000 to switch the funds  in his plan and it duly carried  out his 
instructions.
And as the provider  of the plan,  Aegon also had to give Mr N and/or his financial  adviser  
information about the pension plans that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
There were charges on both these  pension plans. Aegon has set out the different types of 
applicable charges in correspondence to Mr N during the course of his complaint. These 
were an annual management charge, an end of year administration  charge, a paid up policy 
fee, an additional paid up charge, an allocation rate, the bid/offer spread and a surrender 
charge. Crucially these  charges were  set out in the terms and conditions of each  plan.
There is also provision in the terms and conditions for the charges to be changed  for the 
Reflex plan at section  15 (e), and for the Exsel plan at section  10 (d). 
I also note the policy  schedule provided  referred to the asset fund administrative charge. 
So Im not persuaded that Aegon gave misleading  information about the charges or failed to 
provide information  about their existence. I consider  Aegon were entitled to apply these  
charges to Mr Ns plans as per the terms and conditions  and that it was the responsibility 
of Mr Ns adviser to ensure that he understood those charges 
I note the surrender charge was applied to Mr Ns plans because  he withdrew from the plans 
early; before the end of the term. The charges on his plans were spread out over the term of 
the plan and calculated on that basis. So, if the plan holder ends the plan before  the end of 
the term, as Mr N did, it is not uncommon for a provider to apply a surrender charge. 
I also note the paid up policy fee would  be applied to the plan if the plan holder stopped 
paying premiums. Mr N had stopped  paying contributions on both these plans before the 
plans were transferred  to another provider. So Aegon would be entitled  to apply that charge 
as the costs associated with the administration of the plans  would be calculated on the basis  
of regular contributions  being made  until retirement age. 
Ref: DRN22096943Aegon has confirmed  that commission was paid to Mr Ns financial adviser. At the time these 
plans were taken out it was not unusual for advisers  to be paid commission by the provider 
of the plan. That would usually take the form of an initial lump  sum and could be followed by 
ongoing commission. That was a way of remunerating the adviser  for the services  provided. 
I consider, business  A, as the advising firm, was responsible for informing Mr N that it would 
receive commission when  he took out the plans and the amount of commission  it would 
receive.
Mr N has expressed  disappointment about  the return he has received on his contributions. 
He says the provider has a responsibility  to make  it possible to achieve a reasonable return. 
Im not convinced that the level of charges applied by Aegon  made  it impossible to achieve a 
reasonable return. And as I have  explained  some of the charges imposed were due to the 
premiums no longer being paid and then the early withdrawal. 
The return  on Mr Ns contributions would  also depend predominantly on the funds the plans 
were invested in. Mr N switched his funds to the Aegon Technology Fund in 2000. The bid 
price of that fund fell significantly  over the years  which can be seen if you compare the 
original bid price with the bid price  when the plans  were  eventually switched to another  
provider. So, I think that is the more likely reason why the pension  plans  have not performed 
to Mr Ns expectations.
Failure to fully comply with information  request
Aegon accepted it didnt properly comply  with Mr Ns initial request for information about  the 
charges on his plan,  resulting in some  delay in Mr N receiving all the information.  It also 
accepted it didnt properly follow its complaints procedure resulting  in some further delay. It 
paid Mr N compensation of £250 for the trouble and upset caused. 
I have taken into account that Mr N had to contact the business again after his initial request 
for information and had to wait a few weeks for Aegon to provide all the information he had 
requested. I have also taken into account  that Aegon acknowledged its error and apologised 
at an early stage. So I consider £250 to be fair and reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances for the trouble and upset  caused to Mr N by the error and the delay in 
progressing his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint against Scottish Equitable Plc 
(trading as Aegon) for the reasons outlined in this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2209694