K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a loan and a PPI policy through Nationwide  in 1994.  It is most  likely 
the policy was in Mr Hs sole name.  It gave  him protection  against  accident, sickness and 
unemployment. They paid a monthly  amount for it. Mr and Mrs H recall the sale was in a 
meeting. Nationwide cant confirm how or where the policy was sold, or whether it was a 
secured or unsecured  loan.  Ive reviewed the complaint based on the available information.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should  be upheld because  Nationwide hadnt made the 
costs of the policy clear  to Mr and Mrs H. Our adjudicator thought  if the costs had been 
made clearer Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have agreed  to take the policy.
Nationwide disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to give Mr and Mrs H information  about the PPI in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way, so they could make an informed choice about  buying PPI.  
I dont think that Nationwide has shown it gave Mr and Mrs H clear information  about the 
cost of the policy. Nationwide no longer has a copy of Mr and Mrs Hs paperwork but this 
isnt unreasonable given  the time since the sale. 
It sent in samples  of the secured and unsecured loan paperwork to show  how the cost would 
have been made clear.  But these are dated after the time of Mr and Mrs Hs sale so I dont 
think I can fairly rely on them. Nationwide argues that it presented  the cost of PPI in a set 
format so these documents show it informed Mr and Mrs H of the cost during the sales  
process. But businesses  regularly change and update the format  of their credit  agreements.  
So I disagree that samples dated  after the sale are reliable evidence  that Mr and Mrs H were 
given the information they should have been. I cant know if a different  format  of document  
was in use in 1994, or what information it contained.  
Nationwide also sent in policy documents for both secured and unsecured loans showing 
how the cost was set out. But again these post-date  this sale (one is from 1995, and one 
from 1996)  and more  importantly this information would have been provided to Mr and Mrs H 
after they had decided to take out the cover. 
Ref: DRN20976112Ive considered all of Nationwides comments in its letter  of 6 March 2019  carefully,  but its 
defence relies on the argument that the paperwork for Mr and Mrs Hs sale in 1994 gave all 
the same  information  as the paperwork in use in 1995  and I cant find enough evidence to 
fairly conclude that was the case. 
So overall, I dont  think Nationwide has been able to show  us that it made  the cost of the 
policy clear to Mr and Mrs H at the time they made their decision to buy PPI. And if it had 
given Mr and Mrs H better information, I dont think theyd have taken the policy  out for Mr H. 
I say this because  based on Mr H circumstances at the time, and the cost and benefit level 
of the policy, its most likely Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have thought it was good value for them. 
It follows I think Mr and Mrs H have lost out because of what Nationwide  did wrong. 
putting things right
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs H in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide  
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year . 
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide  can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Nationwide Building  Society  and require it to pay 
Mr and Mrs H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2097611