K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Lancaster Motor  Company  Limited (LMCL) mis-sold him a finance 
agreement for a car, the finance being  provided  by a company that I will call T.
background 
In November 2014 Mr B took out a finance  agreement for a car with T which  was arranged 
by LMCL. He said he thought he had taken out a Hire Purchase (HP)  agreement but found 
out in November 2017 he had actually taken out a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP)  
agreement.
Mr B complained to LMCL. He said that at no time did it explain to him that he was entering 
into a PCP agreement, rather than an HP agreement, and that he would be required (in the 
event that he wanted  to keep the car after making 41 monthly payments) to make  a 42nd 
and final payment of £6,235.
He also said that he made  it clear  to LMCL that he travelled in the region of 50,000 miles a 
year, as evidenced  by the car he part exchanged, yet he was restricted under the PCP 
agreement to just 8,000 miles a year.
Furthermore he said it was misleading  for LMCL (or T) to refer to the PCP agreement as 
being 0% interest  because most  consumers faced  with having to find a final payment of 
£6,235 would need to secure that sum on finance,  at a cost.  
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded  that it shouldnt  
be upheld. In summary he said Mr B knew, or ought  to have reasonably  known, precisely 
what type of agreement he was entering into given the information  he was provided  with 
before entering  into it, or on entering  into it. Furthermore, he said Mr B knew, or ought  to 
have reasonably known, that if he was to return the car after making 41 monthly  payments 
(rather than making 42 payments) he would  have to pay an excess  mileage  charge in the 
event the car had travelled more  than 28,000 miles (8,000 per annum).
Mr B didnt agree and so his complaint was passed to me for review and decision.
After Mr Bs complaint was considered by the investigator, and prior to me issuing my 
provisional decision, Mr B was involved  in an accident. Following this accident Mr Bs insurer  
deemed the car a write off, something that had a material  bearing on my findings.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in July 2019. In summary  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I make  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened  given the evidence  that is available  and the 
wider surrounding  circumstances.
Ref: DRN26990862Mr B says he was advised that the best finance option for him was the one that he took out 
and that it wasnt  possible for him to pay a larger deposit, which  he could have  done,  or to 
increase the monthly payment over and above the £285 per month he ultimately  ended  up 
paying, which he could  have done.  And at no time was the final payment he was required to 
make (in the event  he wanted to keep  the car), or the excess  mileage charge that would 
apply (in the event he didnt keep the car), explained  to him. He also says that it was entirely 
inappropriate for him to have had a mileage  allowance of 8,000  miles given it should have 
been clear to LMCL,  for various reasons,  that he would be travelling well in excess of this.
LMCL says that it was Mr Bs decision to enter the agreement that he did. This was because  
he wanted to benefit from a finance contribution and an interest rate of 0%, which was only 
available under a PCP agreement from T, rather than an HP agreement.
Based on what both parties  have said and submitted I do have  some  reservations about the 
arrangement of the finance agreement subject to this complaint. But Im not persuaded Mr B, 
albeit as a result of the car recently being written off, has suffered any financial loss as a 
result.
By entering  into the agreement that he did, and because he is now unable  to return the car 
due it to being written  off, the cost to Mr B (of the agreement he entered into) is £11,832.90, 
made up of the following:
Payment made: month 1 £285.50
Payments made: months  2 to 39 £10,841.78  (38 x £285.31)
Payments made or to be made: months  40 to 41 £570.62 (2 x £285.31)
Payments made or to be made month 42 £6,235.00
Total months  1 to 42 £17,932.90
Insurance payment £6,100.00
Net cost £11,832.90
Had Mr B not entered into the agreement  Im satisfied, based on what he has said and 
submitted, that he would have still taken delivery  of the car. But he would have either bought  
it outright for cash, or financed it on different terms, for example by paying a larger deposit 
and/or larger  equal  monthly payments (over the same or different term) with or without an 
excess mileage charge being  payable.
But all these various  alternatives still mean the cost to Mr B would have been  at least as 
much as he has been required to pay, or is required to pay, under  the agreement  he entered 
into with LMCL.
As I say above Ive some reservations about the arrangement  of the finance  agreement 
subject to this complaint.  And although Im satisfied that Mr B has suffered no direct  financial 
loss, I appreciate that if I was to conclude that the finance agreement was mis-sold to him 
then he should  be fairly compensated  for any trouble and upset such  a mis-sale caused. For 
example, the trouble and upset caused on him discovering, when he says he did, that he 
would be required to make a large payment  in month 42 for the car (in the event he wanted  
to keep it). Or an excess  mileage charge  in month  42 (in the event he wanted to return  it).
Ref: DRN26990863But equally  Im satisfied  that had Mr B bought  the car outright, or financed it on different 
terms, he might not have benefited from what LMCL says was a finance contribution and an 
APR of 0%. Furthermore, the alternatives in my view would have resulted in Mr B having  to 
make payments (totalling £17,932.90 everything else being equal) sooner than he made  
them. 
So even if I was to conclude that Mr Bs finance  agreement was mis-sold to him Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to direct  LMCL to pay anything to Mr B 
for trouble and upset.
Finally I note that Mr B believes that referring to the PCP agreement as being  0% interest is 
misleading because  most  consumers faced with having to find a final payment of £6,235 
would need to secure that sum on finance, at a cost. But I disagree. Although  I accept that 
some consumers might elect to finance  such a sum at a cost,  and indeed might have no 
other option open to them, many will elect  to make this payment from savings, or further 
interest free finance. Furthermore, many consumers taking this type of finance simply trade 
the car in at the end of term (for a new one) thus avoiding having  to make  everything else 
being equal  such a final payment.
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed, but based on what both parties have  said and 
submitted Im currently of the view that LMCL  need do nothing  in respect of this complaint.
LMCL didnt respond to my provisional decision by the date I gave it to do so.
Mr B responded to my provisional decision by the date I gave, but provided nothing 
materially new for my consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that LMCL didnt respond  to my provisional decision and Mr B provided nothing 
materially new for my consideration, I see no reason to depart  from my provisional  findings 
and I now confirm them as final.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lancaster Motor Company Limited need do nothing  in respect of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2699086