K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  which 
Mr and Mrs T say Bradford & Bingley plc (B&B) mis-sold to them  in 1997. 
The policy covered Mr T in the event of him being  unable to work or losing  his job. Mrs T 
wasnt covered by the policy. 
background
Our adjudicator who originally looked  at this case recommended that it should be upheld. 
But I issued the attached  provisional decision (PD) in April 2019,  setting out why I thought  
the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  And I asked  both parties to provide any further 
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im very grateful to Mr and Mrs Ts representatives who replied to my PD with a number of 
points. Ill deal with all the matters they raised.
The first relates to me referring,  in the PD, to what Mr and Mrs T did in their jobs at the time 
the policy was sold, in 1997. When they filled out our questionnaire about the alleged mis-
sale, they were described as public sector employees, but in my PD I said I wasnt sure this 
was right.  In the reply  to my PD, Mr and Mrs Ts representatives said its documentation had 
never stated  that Mr or Mrs T were both public  sector employees. So clearly, we dont agree 
on this point.
Ill start be making it clear  that this particular  issue  doesnt  fundamentally  change  my overall  
decision about whether or not I ought  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Nevertheless,  the 
implication  I felt  was that their jobs well so well protected, as to make the MPPI of little 
use to them.  I note their signed questionnaire clearly says we were public services 
employees when  we took out the policy. But in my opinion, Mr and Mrs Ts occupations, as 
described on the forms we asked  them  to complete, do not fit that description - and so thats 
why I made  the point  I did. So I didnt think  and still dont  that describing  Mr and Mrs T in 
this way was correct.  
Mr and Mrs Ts representatives  also made  some other points in response to my PD. They  
said, for example,  the price of the MPPI wasnt made clear  because the mortgage offer 
showed a cost of £0.00. I understand the point  being  made, but the mortgage offer also said 
the MPPI  was free for 6 months, after which the charge would be £10.91, payable by Mr and 
Mrs T. Under  the heading  PAYMENT PROTECTION the offer said B&B would pay for the 
first 6 months.  But it also said your attention is drawn to the enclosed  Summary of Cover  
which you should read carefully I think all this shows the price was disclosed and that Mr 
and Mrs T were  given some other information explaining the policy.
I was also asked to reconsider whether  this was an advised or non-advised sale.  
Id said it was a non-advised sale but again, this particular aspect of the sale doesnt change  
my decision  and its obviously possible the person selling  the cover  overstepped their brief.  
Ref: DRN25069332However, the only really  significant and additional  responsibility relating to an advised  sale 
would be that B&B needed to make  sure the MPPI  was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances  and I think  it was. I think this because their mortgage was secured against  
their home and so the possibility of them not being able to meet their payments in the event 
of a sudden loss of earning could have been serious for them. I also think  the £10.91 cost 
was affordable for them and broadly in line with similar cover Ive seen from that time period 
and the cover was directed at Mr T, the higher earner. 
On that basis, even if the policy had been recommended, I dont think doing so would  have 
been unreasonable. I think  the cover was suitable for them.
The final point made in the response to my PD relates to Mr Ts health. I commented in my 
PD that Mr T said at the time of the sale that he wasnt suffering from any medical 
conditions. The issue of his health  came up retrospectively, when  the complaint was made  in 
2018, obviously a very considerable period after the 1997 sale. And I stand by my point 
which is that I dont  think Mr Ts health  would  have made him change what he went  on to do 
i.e. buy the cover. I explain this more in my PD.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs T now genuinely and honestly believe,  after many years, that 
the MPPI  policy was mis-sold to them. But their complaint contained a great many reasons 
as to why. I found  many  of the points  made  on their behalf to be generic and unpersuasive. 
The evidence, on the other hand, shows its much more likely  that Mr and Mrs T were  aware  
they had a choice. The documentation shows they selected and tailored the MPPI to fit their 
situation and I think the cost was disclosed to them at the time of the sale.  
Other principal points  of complaint were  that they were pressured into buying the MPPI and 
were told there was no choice. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T, but the evidence from 
the sale shows it much more likely they would have  seen the MPPI was optional  and I think  
they agreed to buy it.
This means  that B&B doesnt need  to compensate Mr and Mrs T for the mis-sale.  But it has 
already agreed  to pay back  some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs T because when the 
policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium).  It should  have told them about that. Because it didnt, that was 
unfair. To put that right,  B&B has already offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share above 50% of the PPI premium. I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint  or require Bradford  & Bingley plc to pay any 
compensation for the mis-sale. 
Bradford & Bingley  plc should now pay Mr and Mrs T for the commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  already  done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN25069333copy - provisional  decision
Ive considered all the relevant information about this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so far Im 
considering departing substantially from the view of our adjudicator.
Ill look at any more  comments and evidence  that I get by 18 May 2019. But unless the information 
changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines. Final decisions are 
published. So the consumers cant be identified, Ill call them  Mr and Mrs T. Im sorry this complaint 
has taken a while to reach an ombudsman.
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy which  
Mr and Mrs T say Bradford  & Bingley  plc (B&B) mis-sold to them  in 1997. 
background
The policy covered Mr T in the event of him being unable  to work or losing  his job. Mrs T wasnt 
covered by the policy. Our adjudicator who looked  at this case recommended that it should be upheld. 
B&B disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsman  to make a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, I dont  intend to uphold this complaint. Im very sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs T
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs T may now honestly and genuinely feel the MPPI was mis-sold to 
them. However, I see they are represented  by a third party company  and a very large  number of 
reasons were put forward on their behalf as to why the MPPI was mis-sold to them. But Im afraid  I 
found many  of these points  to be unpersuasive.
I note,  for example, that the company representing Mr and Mrs T said they were both public sector 
employees, implying the sickness  and other benefits  they would have  received through their jobs 
would have been very good.  
But according  to the information Mr and Mrs T themselves  supplied, neither was employed  in the 
public sector. And as the MPPI only covered Mr T, I dont think Mrs Ts employment situation was 
particularly relevant  in this case.
Another central theme of the complaint was that Mr and Mrs T were  told during their mortgage 
meeting that the MPPI  was something they needed to agree to. It was said that failing  to agree would 
have resulted in them not being given the mortgage they wanted. It was also said the MPPI costs 
werent disclosed to them either.
However, I was shown  a copy of the mortgage application form, from 1997.  Theres a section in the 
form about  MPPI which I think shows Mr and Mrs T were given a choice. When  asked about the 
MPPI, they answered yes and they signed the application form. I also see that in their mortgage 
offer Mr and Mrs T were told that Mr T would  be covered on the policy  and that the initial 6 month 
period would  be free of charge. It was also disclosed  that after this period,  £10.91 would be collected 
each month.
I think  Mr and Mrs T would have considered their mortgage offer to be an important document  which 
they ought  to read carefully. 1997 is also a long time ago now, so its obviously possible they just 
Ref: DRN25069334dont remember any of this. But in short, I think the optional nature of the MPPI and the costs were  
made clear.
I therefore  think B& B got Mr and Mrs Ts consent to add the MPPI.
Our adjudicator then had to think about whether a pre-existing medical  condition Mr T said hed 
suffered from meant  that he should never have been sold the MPPI policy in the first place. The 
medical condition was put forward  on his behalf in the complaint to us. 
However I can see in the original 1997 mortgage application form,  Mr T said he wasnt suffering any 
medical conditions. So we asked for more information to clarify this point.
I wouldnt wish in any way to suggest  that Mr Ts health  wasnt  important. But in his response to our 
questions, he told us his condition  was under control and he was taking medication. He hadnt ever 
needed to take time off work.  And thinking  about the type of medical issue it was, I dont think  it 
would have made him change what  he went on to do i.e. buy the cover.  
This is because the MPPI  only kicked  in after the policy-holder  was off ill for some 30 days. To me, 
Mr Ts medical issue doesnt fit that category.  I dont think hed have considered  being  off that long 
was likely. So the pre-existing condition   even assuming the dates  of it are relevant  and correct   
isnt something  Id uphold this complaint  on.
I dont think this was an advised sale where  the policy  was specifically  recommended to Mr and Mrs 
T. So B&Bs duty in this case was to present information  clearly enough  for Mr and Mrs T to decide 
for themselves whether  this MPPI was right for them.
I can see ways  in which  the form could  have been improved but overall,  I think  they had enough  
information on which  to make an informed decision about what they wanted to do. As Ive said,  I 
think the cost was disclosed and the documents, collectively, were clear about who and what were 
covered. 
So I think the evidence  in this case shows its much more likely that Mr and Mrs T were  aware they 
had a choice. The mortgage  was secured against their home, so I can understand why they might  
have wanted this type of protection, even  though Mr T already  had some protection  against sickness 
with his job. Ive thought very carefully  about all the circumstances and I dont think  the MPPI was 
mis-sold.
my provisional  decision
I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint or direct Bradford & Bingley plc to do anything  more  
than its already offered to do. 
I note Bradford & Bingley plc has already offered to pay back Mr and Mrs T some money, for part of 
the commission  it got from the sale. I think that offer is fair.
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 18 
May 2019 after which  I will issue a final decision.
Ref: DRN2506933