K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that a car he has been  financing through  an agreement with R. Raphael & 
Sons Plc (Raphael Finance)  is of unsatisfactory quality.
background 
Mr W took receipt of a used car in December 2017. He financed  the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Raphael Finance. At the point of supply the car had already 
completed about 104,000 miles and was about nine years old.
Our inspector set out a comprehensive timeline of events in his opinion  letter  earlier this 
year. But I think the following gives a summary  of the most important events.
Mr W had issues  with the car starting  in cold weather and first reported  this to the dealership 
in January 2018. A diagnostic report was generated and a further report  was created in 
March 2018. In May of that year Mr W had the glow plugs replaced at a cost of £317 but he 
complained to Raphael Finance as he was still experiencing problems with the car; 
particularly with the gearbox  which  he said was faulty and dangerous as it was sticking or 
reverting to neutral.  He also said there  was a diesel particulate filter (DPF) problem.
So in June  2018 an independent  inspection  was arranged. The engineer took the car on a 
28 mile test drive but could not replicate the problems that were being  complained  of. So 
Raphael Finance didnt think they needed  to take any further action.
Mr W subsequently provided  a couple  of reports from other garages. A pre-purchase  
inspection said there was an intermittent gear box fault and issues  with the DPF amongst 
other problems. On 2 March 2019 another garage  also said there  were  issues  with the DPF 
and the gearbox  along  with several other  faults.  They said the fault codes had been present 
since January 2018.
Mr W asked this service  to take a look at his complaint and our investigator provided his 
opinion. He thought Raphael Finance should refund  the cost of the repair carried out in 
March 2018 as he thought  there  were  problems with the car that Mr W had reported  very 
soon after hed taken  receipt of the car. However, he didnt think it would be fair to expect the 
business to pay for subsequent faults as he was persuaded by the independent  inspectors 
report that issues were not present when he looked  at the car and Mr W appeared to have 
been able to drive  a reasonable mileage in the vehicle since hed been in possession  of it 
(over 16,000 miles in 15 months). He noted Mr Ws subsequent garage reports  but he didnt 
find these reports as persuasive as the independent  engineers and, in particular, he noted 
that the car had passed an MOT only a week after the second report. He thought this 
suggested the car was working satisfactorily.  
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators  view and he therefore asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN23423012I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr W so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it. 
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Raphael Finance, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory taking into account  any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr W. The car here 
was around nine years old and had travelled 104,000 miles. I think some problems could be 
expected on a car of this age and mileage but I think a reasonable person would expect 
such faults to be limited. For example, the car should still be driveable.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Raphael Finance to put this right.  
But Raphael Finances responsibility  for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible 
for its condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop 
afterwards such as those  relating  to wear and tear.  
Legislation would encourage  us to assume that if a car developed  a fault in the first six 
months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
Im persuaded that there were some problems with this vehicle  at the point  of supply. I think 
the diagnostic  reports that were  completed in January  and March  2018 show some  fault 
codes that I think its reasonable to suggest  are consistent with cold starting problems. I think 
its reasonable to suggest these may have been resolved by the glow plug replacement  
Mr W had completed  in May 2018.  So I think these faults were Raphael  Finances 
responsibility and they should therefore  refund the repair cost of £317.
But Im not persuaded that its likely there were other faults  that were likely  to have been 
present at the point of supply such as a DPF fault or gearbox  issues,  as:
Ref: DRN23423013theyve not been  confirmed by the independent  inspector and I think  this is the only 
truly independent  inspection  that been  completed. Unlike the other reports provided 
by Mr W, the engineer has provided  a statement to explain his overriding 
responsibility is to the court and not to Mr W or Raphael Finance. And Ive read his 
biography and note he has considerable experience in the field
the car passed  its MOT in early March 2019 only a few days  after Mr Ws most recent 
garage report that said there were still problems with it. I dont think its likely the car 
would have passed an MOT if there  were  significant issues such  as those Mr W 
complains of with the gearbox and DPF 
Mr W has completed over 16,000 miles in the car in 15 months. I think  thats a 
reasonable mileage  and I dont  think its likely  he would have been able to complete 
that distance if the problems he complains of were  present
Im not persuaded by either of the reports Mr W has supplied that the faults with the 
DPF and gearbox,  if present, were  there  from the beginning. The first report  suggests 
problems with the DPF and gearbox but doesnt say when  the faults began.  The 
second does say that the faults  were present in January 2018 shortly after Mr W took 
receipt of the car. But I dont find the evidence in this report compelling  as:
the mileage that was recorded seems wrong  it was significantly higher in the 
MOT completed  shortly afterwards. And as that information seems inaccurate  I 
think it raises  doubts about  the accuracy of other  information contained in the 
report
it says all the faults highlighted were present in January 2018 but I cant  see them  
all listed on the diagnostics that were completed  at that time or a few months later 
and I think they would have been if the report is accurate
an MOT was carried out about a week later. The car passed and I dont think  its 
likely it would have done if all these  faults were present.
So whilst I think Raphael  Finance should refund the cost of the glow plug replacement I dont 
think theres sufficient evidence to suggest there  were other problems, present or developing 
at the point of supply,  that remain unresolved.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell R. Raphael  & Sons 
Plc to refund Mr W for the repairs he had completed in March  2018: a sum of £317.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2342301