K820x#14complaint
Mr S says that Lloyds  Motors Ltd (Lloyds) mis-sold him a single premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy and a guaranteed asset protection (GAP) policy  when he took out a 
loan to buy a car.
background
Although the policies  werent sold by Lloyds  it has taken responsibility for the sale so I have 
referred to Lloyds throughout my decision. 
During a meeting at a car sales room in 2006  Mr S took out a loan to buy a car. At the same  
time he was sold a silver PPI policy to protect his loan repayments in the event  Mr S was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness. A successful claim on the policy wouldve 
covered his loan repayments for up to 24 months if he was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness and the policy wouldve  paid off the outstanding balance on the loan if he died. Mr 
S also took out a guaranteed asset  protection (GAP) policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ss complaint should  be upheld. He thought  Mr S wouldve 
understood he had a choice in taking the policies and they wouldve suited his needs.
Mr S disagrees. He says he was told he had to take out PPI to get the finance and he didnt 
need the policies. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr S that he had a choice in taking out the insurance and 
make sure he agreed to buy it. Mr S says this wasnt done.  But he hasnt given  much  detail 
about why he thinks this which is understandable as the policies  were  sold a while  ago. So 
to help me make my decision Ive mainly relied on what the sales  documents show.
I can see on the credit agreement that the PPI policy Mr S took out was a SILVER policy 
that covered him for accident and sickness but not unemployment. I think  this suggests 
some discussion  about Mr Ss circumstances and what cover would be appropriate for him. 
And I think Mr S didnt take cover for unemployment because he was self-employed and in 
some cases  its harder  for a self-employed  person  than an employed person to make a 
successful unemployment  claim.
So I think PPI was discussed with Mr S and I think he chose to take the SILVER package.
Ive also seen a copy of the credit  agreement. I can see that the cost of the loan, GAP and 
optional PPI have  been set out separately  from one another  in the middle  of the agreement.  
Ref: DRN24573112Just to the right of this I can see that there  are two separate boxes that Mr S has signed in. 
The first box deals with the credit  agreement and the second  box PPI and GAP.
The box that deals  with PPI and GAP  says I wish to purchase  and then gives two options  
below this with tick boxes  PPI and GAP. Both boxes have been ticked. 
Even though  Mr S says the sales  person ticked those boxes for him I think Mr S still had the 
option to not take the insurance by not signing in the box. I think Mr S wouldve understood 
this. And I think he signed within the box for GAP  and PPI because he wanted the cover.
I think Lloyds advised Mr S to take PPI and GAP.  What  this means is that Lloyds not only 
had to provide  information about PPI and GAP in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way so that 
Mr S could make an informed choice about  buying it. It also had to make sure that if it were 
to recommend GAP  and PPI that the policies were suitable to his needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds  did take all the steps it shouldve.  But I think the recommended  
insurance was a suitable recommendation for Mr S for the following reasons:
He looks like he was eligible for both the PPI and GAP and it doesnt  look like he 
wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the 
PPI policy which couldve made it difficult to make  a successful  claim.
At the time of the sale Mr S says he wasnt entitled to any sick pay but had savings he 
could use to make his loan repayments  if he couldnt work.  But a successful  claim on the 
PPI policy wouldve paid out on top of his savings  and covered his repayments for 
potentially longer. And the loan wouldve been paid off in the event  of his death.
So I think the PPI wouldve  provided  a useful  benefit to Mr S in his circumstances.
There was nothing  to suggest that the PPI wasnt affordable to him at the time and 
although I note he wouldnt have got a pro-rata refund if he cancelled  the policy  or paid 
back his loan early   Ive seen nothing that suggests he was going to do this.
I also need to consider  whether Lloyds  gave Mr S information in a way which was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so that he could make  a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take GAP and PPI. I can see the cost of both policies was shown on the credit  agreement 
but I dont know  if Lloyds gave all of the information  as it shouldve.
But for the same reasons  that the PPI and GAP was suitable  and based  on what  Mr S has 
told us about his circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the policies if 
hed been given all the proper information.
This means  Mr S isnt any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Lloyds.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint  against Lloyd Motors Ltd.
Ref: DRN24573113Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019. 
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2457311