K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  on behalf of Mr B about issues they experienced with a car purchased with 
finance from FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd.
background
In July 2014 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with FCA. 
The car was registered and insured in the name of Miss B.
In April 2015 Miss B took the car to the dealership and reported issues  with juddering and 
the text scroll function on Bluetooth not operating  correctly. The dealer found a fault in 
relation to the juddering  which was rectified.  The dealer said it would  look into the Bluetooth 
issue but told Miss B there was no fix at present.
The car was returned to the dealer in December 2015 for a health check and an 
investigation of a stop/start issue. No faults were found.
In April 2016 the car was returned  to the dealer with ongoing issues  relating to the text scroll 
function. The dealer replaced the instrument cluster and attempted to re-program  the dash 
pad but was unable to resolve the issues.
Miss B complained to Fiat. Initially she was offered £1000 off the price of a new car. Miss B 
contacted Fiat in June 2016  and discussed  trading the car in. She asked  how this would 
work as the agreement  was in Mr Bs name but she was the registered  keeper. The advisor 
told Miss B that the car must be registered to the account holder  on the finance agreement, 
the only exception  to this being  if the account  holder and the registered  keeper are married 
(which Miss B and Mr B are not). The advisor told Miss B that the car should  be registered to 
Mr B, and that even  though the insurance policy was in her name  she wasnt  covered 
because the policy holder  must be the same as the account holder.
In further discussions  Miss B discovered  that the annual mileage allowance under the 
agreement was 5000 miles. She realised shed  exceeded this and was told that excess 
mileage fees would apply if she handed  the car back at the end of the agreement  or 
voluntary terminated.
Miss B says she told the salesperson that she would be covering 12,000 miles per year, but 
says she wasnt present when Mr B signed  the finance agreement.
Mr B complained to FCA. He said he wanted  to reject the car because of the fault with the 
text scroll function and because the agreement had been mis-sold.
In its final response FCA said the manufacturer had stated  that the car doesnt come  with the 
text scroll feature so there was no manufacturing defect. It also said that Mr B had signed  
the agreement  and accepted all of the terms and conditions. As a gesture of goodwill FCA 
offered to reduce the settlement figure by £250  if Mr B wanted  to part exchange  the car or 
settle the agreement. 
Mr B wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the problems with the text scroll 
function were reported more than six months after the point of supply and there was no 
Ref: DRN23310622evidence to show the fault had been present or developing at the point of supply. The 
investigator also said that because Miss B had since purchased  the car, the excess mileage  
fees had been paid so there was no financial  loss to consider. The investigator looked  at Mr 
Bs previous finance agreement but found that no negative  equity  had been  carried over. 
She also said that in relation to the insurance  policy, the terms and conditions  stated that the 
policy holder should  be the person named  in the finance agreement.  
Miss B didnt agree. She said there  was reference  to the text scroll function in the owners 
manual so she didnt  accept  what  FCA had said about the car not having this function. Miss 
B said it was irrelevant that the fault with the text scroll  was reported more  than six months 
after the point  of supply because the car had a 24 month warranty.  Miss B said shed been 
left in a position where  shed had no option  but to purchase the car otherwise she would 
have had to pay the excess mileage charges.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because FCA has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied term 
that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality  if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid.
Mr B first reported  issues  with the text scroll feature in April 2015.  Under  the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015, where a fault arises  within six months of the point of supply its generally up 
to the business to put tings right. After six months,  the burden  of proof is reversed  and its up 
to the customer to show that the fault was present at the point of supply.
If the issue with the text scroll  had been present at the point of supply I wouldve expected 
Mr B (or Miss B) to report it sooner than they did. So it seems  more likely that the problem  
arose after several months  of using the car. Because  of this, Im unable to say that the fault 
was present at the point of supply,  or that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. I think therefore that FCA acted  fairly  in declining  Mr Bs request to reject  the car on 
the basis of a manufacturing defect.
Ive noted what  Miss B has said about  the warranty. But Im not considering  a warranty  claim 
here. Im considering  whether the car was of satisfactory quality  under  the relevant 
legislation. Depending on the terms of the warranty, cars are generally covered against 
manufacturing defects  for a period  of time.  So if a manufacturing  fault was found I would 
expect the dealer to repair it under the warranty. But in this case  I havent seen any evidence  
that there  was a manufacturing fault with the car. 
I understand Miss Bs concerns that the car was mis-sold. However, Ive looked  at the point 
of supply documents and these clearly show a mileage  limit of 5000 miles per year. The 
excess mileage charges are also set out. Miss B wasnt present at the time the agreement 
was entered into by Mr B. Because of this, Miss B isnt able to say what was discussed in 
relation to mileage. In such circumstances I have  to rely on the contemporaneous 
documents as the best evidence of what was discussed and agreed. So whilst I understand 
Miss Bs disappointment about  the excess mileage charges, Im of the view that the terms 
Ref: DRN23310623and conditions of the agreement were  clear and that Mr B would have been aware of the 
mileage limit.
Ive taken into account the other concerns Miss B has raised about the sales  process. 
However, on the available evidence, Im unable to conclude that the dealership acted 
fraudulently. This isnt something Im able to consider in the context of this complaint  I can 
only consider complaints  arising out of the finance  agreement itself.
Ive looked at Mr Bs previous finance agreement dated 30 July 2014. I cant  see any 
negative equity being carried over into the new agreement. I appreciate  Mr Bs 
disappointment that the car is worth  less than he hoped but its often the case  that brand 
new cars depreciate  quickly, which can result  in there being  a greater sum outstanding 
under the finance agreement than the value of the car.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, and whilst I appreciate  Miss 
Bs strength of feeling,  Im unable to say that the car was of unsatisfactory  quality or that the 
finance agreement  was mis-sold. So I wont  be asking FCA to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2331062