K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that he cant access a perks  feature with his Revolut Limited personal 
current bank account.
background
Revolut are currently trialling a perks feature with their current accounts  which  allows 
customers to access  benefits  such as price reductions on certain  products.
Revoluts website describes this feature as being in beta testing. Theyve offered it to 
selected customers in certain jurisdictions.
Mr K became aware  that this feature  was being  offered  to other customers  and contacted 
Revolut via the live chat function on their mobile  app.
Revoluts first adviser told Mr K to send an email to a certain  address. Mr K says he was 
given the impression that if he emailed  that address, hed get access  to the perks feature.
When he contacted  Revolut again, he was told he wasnt eligible for the perks feature.
Mr K complained to Revolut, saying that hed been  misled by the first adviser.  They didnt 
uphold his complaint, so he brought  it to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Revolut had done  nothing wrong.
Mr K disagreed and asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman. He wants  Revolut to 
give him access to the perks feature and to give him a free annual  subscription to their 
premium service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut are testing the perks feature with selected  customers. They contacted those 
customers to offer the feature  for a trial period. 
Im not entirely sure how Mr K became aware  of the feature  though it is described on 
Revoluts website and theyre clearly  not making a secret of it. But he wasnt one of the 
customers they selected to take part in the trial.
The terms and conditions  of the account say:
Perks will only be applicable for Revolut customers in certain  jurisdictions, such  
jurisdictions will be updated from time to time at Revoluts sole discretion.  We will 
always let you know when  Perks  are available in your jurisdiction.   
Revolut werent under  any obligation to offer the feature to all their customers.  And they 
dont guarantee  Perks will be available to all account holders. So, I cant  see that Revolut 
have been in any way unfair or unreasonable in telling Mr K that he cant have access to the 
feature as yet.
Ref: DRN28869812Ive also seen copies  of both the live chats  in which Mr K asked Revolut about the Perks 
feature.
He says he was misled by the first adviser,  who told him he could have access  to the feature 
if he emailed a certain address. 
In fact, what the adviser said was:
Riza, you will have to send email to this address  beta@revolut.com, asking for 
releasing the perks. Our team will contact you once they look at your case .
So, he wasnt misled into believing he would have  access. He was told to contact  a different 
team to find our whether  he would have access.
The second  adviser  on a later session on the same  live chat app  told Mr K he wouldnt 
be eligible for the feature. Which was correct.
I can see how Mr K would be slightly  annoyed that he wasnt told this in the first place. But 
Im satisfied he wasnt misled. And he was given the complete and correct  information three 
days later.
I cant see that Mr K suffered any loss as a result of this communication with Revolut. He 
wasnt denied access to a service hes entitled  to have.  Hes not lost out financially or in any 
other material way. And hes not suffered any real trouble and upset as a result of not being  
given the full story by the first adviser.
So, in summary,  I dont think Revolut have acted  unfairly or unreasonably in any way in their 
dealings with Mr K.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2886981