K820x#14complaint
Mrs O1 and Mrs O2 have  complained that Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (Halifax) 
will not refund any of the commission it received  from their PPI premiums  for the policy  that 
they took out in 1996 to cover their mortgage. 
As Mrs O1 was the only person covered by the PPI policy and has been  corresponding with 
the service from the start, I will only refer to her in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mrs O1s complaint about commission. Ive already 
issued a decision about the time-limits.  
Im not upholding Mrs O1s complaint. Ill explain why.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31st October  2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began   and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. It was possible for mortgages taken out 
before this date to become regulated, if a change was made to the mortgage   such as a 
further advance  or interest rate switch. Different  lenders took different  approaches to this. 
Mrs O1 took out her mortgage in 1996.  From the information  Halifax has provided, Mrs O1 
made a change to her mortgage in 2005 and Halifax has told us the entire  mortgage  became 
regulated at that point. Based on what we have seen and what we know  about how Halifax  
completed these changes, Im satisfied that Mrs O1s mortgage did become regulated.
As Mrs O1s mortgage became regulated before 6 April 2008 it was no longer covered by 
the Consumer  Credit Act. This means the FCAs rules and guidance dont apply. So Halifax  
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mrs O1 paid for the PPI she had with her 
mortgage. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN21630702I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O1 and       
Mrs O2 to accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2163070