K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs complaint has been made on his behalf  by a representative. The representative 
complains about  the approach Legal  & General (Unit Trust Managers) Limited (L&G) took 
to pricing units in its UK Property Fund (the fund) in the aftermath  of the Brexit  vote. L&G 
applied a fair value pricing adjustment (FVP) following that vote, which Mr G was affected  
by when he sold units he held in the fund.  The complaint made by Mr Gs representative,  in 
essence, is that, in applying  the FVP, L&G acted in its own interests rather  than those of 
Mr G, and that it ought to have suspended  trading in the fund instead of applying the FVP. 
background
Mr Gs representative is his financial advisor.  He advised Mr G to invest in the fund in 2014 
and, following the Brexit vote, advised him to sell the units he held in the fund.  The complaint 
is about the price  L&G used  to execute  Mr Gs instruction to sell his units in the fund.  
the fund
The fund is a unit trust, which invests in UK commercial property. Its typical investments are 
shopping centres, factories and office blocks. It aims to achieve a return through rental 
payments and growth in the value  of the properties it owns. Because of the nature of what  it 
invests in, it holds a considerable amount of its assets as cash.  That allows  it to offer liquidity 
i.e. the freedom for investors to buy and sell units in the fund when they want to. The fund is 
managed by L&G and, as such, it is responsible for providing a price for the units  of the fund. 
The fund trades  each working  day. A price for its units  is fixed  by L&G once each day. The 
fund is priced on a forward basis, meaning  any order  to buy or sell units is put forward for 
execution at the next available  pricing  point, and the price at which  the order was executed  
will only be known once the price  for that day has been published, after execution  has taken 
place. Orders to sell units have to be with L&G by 10:30, to be executed at the price  for that 
day. 
the application of the FVP
After the result of the 23 June 2016 referendum  on EU membership was announced, L&G 
began to think about how that result  might impact the price of the fund. It gave consideration 
to applying a FVP,  to reflect  the impact of the Brexit vote.  
On 27 June 2016 L&G announced that it would apply a FVP of 5%. That meant those who 
had given orders to sell after 10:30  on 26 June 2016 would have an FVP of 5% applied. 
On 6 July 2016 L&G decided to increase  the FVP by 10%, meaning a total FVP of 15% 
would apply for those  who had given  orders to sell after 10:30 on 5 July 2016.  There  was a 
delay in executing  orders scheduled to be executed at the 6 July 2016  pricing  point, as the 
decision to apply the FVP was not made by L&G until the evening  of 6 July. 
The FVP was later reduced  by L&G  to 10% on 15 July 2016  and 7.5%  on 27 July 2016. On 
7 September 2016 it was removed completely. 
On each occasion of the FVP being considered L&Gs Asset Pricing  and Valuations 
Committee and its board met. And in the case of the 15% FVP applied on 6 July  which is 
Ref: DRN22462372the focus of this complaint  - the committee and board met a number of times. L&G has 
provided us with copies of the minutes  of the meetings held on that day. 
After Mr Gs complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision,  L&G provided some  
further information about its application of the FVP.  It said: 
It's clear from the minutes of its meetings that all issues  were considered but that 
there was no availability  of reliable pricing  data in the turbulent times immediately 
following the Brexit  vote. In such  circumstances  the FCA makes  it clear that a fund 
manager must use the tools  available to ensure all investors (those leaving and 
remaining) are treated  fairly.
Leading up to the EU referendum it recognised the possibility of uncertainties in
property prices and the potential  need  for FVPs.  A framework for implementing FVPs 
was prepared which considered historical  property market performance;  a short  term 
property pricing model; and the funds flows  /dilution  analysis. The pricing model  
sought to use reference points that would be available and calculate the combined 
impact on yields implied by the model and therefore an estimated capital value  
impact. 
It also considered it appropriate to use the price of property investment trusts as a 
factor in the fund pricing, as a reflection of prevailing market sentiment on property 
pricing. 
The full text of the section of the minutes of the 16:30 6 July board meeting referring 
to market commentary noted:
[board member] reported  that since the previous meeting, the valuers  had provided 
their views on pricing on a forced  sale basis. He advised that in the event of a sale 
being forced within 1 month, the valuers believed that a discount of - 20% to current 
values could be expected and a discount  of - 8% if the sale had 3 months in which  to 
negotiate. He noted that the views mirrored other  external opinions that had been 
expressed, including from a research house  which had indicated falls in values of up 
to -30% in the case of a hard market landing.  [board  member]  advised that the 
central case was that a reduction of -17% could  be expected over the next 2 years. 
The 6 July meetings were  held against the significant background event that a 
number of its peers had suspended trading in their property funds, and it had 
experienced high levels of outflow  from the fund. While the fund still had adequate 
liquidity at that point to stay open, if it had to sell assets at the time such  sales would 
be in a market  that was likely to have other  property fund managers similarly seeking 
to sell assets. The board was therefore  concerned to ensure  property  prices  reflected 
the reality of that situation.
Property sales inevitably  take time and while the timescales can be reduced, the 
price received is likely  to reflect that. One reason for having an extra board meeting 
on 6 July was so that the board could receive an opinion from its standing 
independent valuer  about the impact  on prices in a forced sale situation. Once 
provided, these indicated the portfolio could  suffer an 8% drop in value for sales  on a 
3 month  basis and a 20% drop if sold in one month.  More generally, the value of 
assets in the property  fund had to reflect what the manager would expect to receive 
Ref: DRN22462373for a sale,  and given  the nature of the asset  class that will require a longer-term view 
than for more liquid  classes of asset.
the sale of Mr Gs units
Mr Gs order to sell his units in the UK Property  Fund was sent to L&G after 10:30 on 5 July. 
It was hence affected by the 15% FVP.  Mr G did not find out about the 15% FVP until 7 July, 
due to the delay in executing his order. Mr Gs representative says Mr G gave the order in 
the expectation that a 5% FVP would apply.  
Mr Gs complaint 
Mr Gs representative has made a number of submissions in the course of making the 
complaint on Mr Gs behalf. Rather than summarising each set of submissions, Im going  to 
set out a single summary of what I think are the main points. But I have read the 
submissions made by Mr Gs representative  in their entirety, and given careful  consideration 
to them.  
In my view the main points made by Mr Gs representative are as follows:
The FVP was not necessary, given the high liquidity of the fund. 
The application of the FVP was driven  by L&Gs desire to stop outflows from the 
fund.
L&G used the FVP for marketing purposes, so it could continue  to say it had never 
suspended trading  in its fund. 
Five properties were  sold by the manager  of another property fund whilst the 15% 
FVP was applied. Those  sales  realised an aggregate  value  of less than 1% below the 
pre-Brexit price. 
In support of applying  the FVP L&G has relied on contemporaneous commentary 
which spoke of likely property values  in 18-24 months time. But its decision should 
have been based  on current values, not future  ones.  
The performance of the property market  during the last difficult period (2008-2009) 
shows a gradual  fall in value, not a sudden one. The 15% FVP isnt consistent with 
that. 
The application of the FVP was a knee jerk reaction. 
The FVP was effectively an exit penalty. 
The falls in the values of shares of property companies which L&G referred  to in 
support of its decision speak of concern  about future values, not current ones. 
L&Gs interest was in stemming outflows and attracting  discount  buyers,  rather than 
arriving at a fair value  for the property  assets. 
It was in L&Gs financial  interest to apply FVP rather than suspend the fund  but 
suspension would have been the more appropriate option. 
Ref: DRN22462374There was no evidence that fire sales  at the time would  have resulted in a 20% 
discount, as L&G has suggested. 
L&G left it too late to tell its customers of the increase to the FVP. They  should  have 
been notified immediately, so they had knowledge of the increased  penalty. As L&G 
left it too late to tell customers, it should  have  suspended the fund. 
L&Gs response 
Again, I have set out one summary what I consider to be the main  points made  by L&G 
during the course of the complaint. But I have read and carefully  considered everything it 
has said. 
In my view, L&Gs main points are as follows: 
A fund manager is required, under the Financial Conduct Authority's Collective 
Investment Schemes (COLL) rules,  to impose  a fair price  if he has reasonable 
grounds to believe  the most  recent price is inaccurate. 
The fund manager has an overriding  obligation  to act fairly  in the interests  of all 
investors in the fund - those buying  and selling and those  who choose to remain 
invested. It's clearly  not fair on remaining  investors if the manager allows investors  
out of the fund at a price that represents too large a share  of the assets held by the 
fund. This is reflected  in the prospectus for the fund. 
The fund manager is best placed  to decide  if and when a FVP should be applied.  
The FVP is not an exit penalty.  The COLL rules and its prospectus  are both clear 
about when and why an adjustment may be applied.
As the fund is forward priced, it is not possible  to notify customers  in advance of any 
FVP. No investors in the Fund  were told in advance  of the FVP. Mr G would  always 
have received the price of the fund at the next pricing point.  
The FVP was a unique event at a tumultuous time, but ultimately did not change the 
way that the pricing  mechanism for the fund was applied. 
Mr Gs representative has sought to equate the FVP with the pricing of an equity 
based fund. But they are, of course, very different. The price of any listed equity  is 
readily available on a real time basis. In the case of properties held within a property 
fund, values are far less readily  available and can only be truly established when a 
sale is completed.
After the referendum  result it was very difficult to assess the impact  on property 
values. Independent valuers  were  faced with a lack of transactions on which  to value 
properties.
Since then markets have stabilised and the fund manager has been able to remove 
the FVP as the independent  valuers  have reported  a marked increase  in the level of 
confidence in the market,  and improved overall conditions.
Ref: DRN22462375Suspension is an option that some other providers took. Instead of taking this route it 
took the view that investors should  still be able to take their money out of the fund 
while ensuring that all investors (either buying, selling or remaining) were treated  
fairly. 
It believes that its actions were in line with its prospectus.  They  were  the result  of full 
consideration of the circumstances surrounding the difficulties in valuing commercial 
property following the Brexit vote. The FCA was kept informed of the actions it was 
taking.
There is no evidence it has used the FVP for marketing purposes 
The FCA discussion paper DP17/01 "Illiquid  assets and open-ended investment 
funds" reflects on the situation and the actions fund managers took with regard to 
their respective funds.  There's nothing contained within that discussion paper  which  
supports Mr Gs complaint. 
It was aware of the impact of the FVP on investors leaving the Fund  on 6 July 2016. 
That impact was mitigated  by the offer price reduction on 7 July 2016, which meant  
those customers who had come  out with the 15% FVP could re-invest at effectively 
the same  price and not therefore  lose out. 
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator considered things and concluded that Mr G's complaint  should not be 
upheld. Our adjudicator said,  in summary:
Property funds contain illiquid assets.  So the actual valuation  of any asset  within the 
fund is always open to debate and can only truly be verified  when a transaction has 
actually been  completed.  The potential selling price can only ever be estimated. 
While external professionals are often used for such valuations, even then the value  
can only be an educated estimation.
As a result  property  funds usually carry a percentage of the fund in cash  so they can 
meet normal day to day sellers of the fund without the need  to actually realise any of 
the underlying  properties. However  there are circumstances  which require a fund 
manager to take action in order  to protect investors in the fund.
The consensus was that the property  market would be severely affected by the Brexit 
vote, both in the residential as well as commercial property sectors.
Following the outcome of the vote,  share prices of property companies quoted on the 
stock exchange  suffered  severe falls of between 25% and 50%.
L&G in line with other fund managers  had immediate concerns  about how property 
funds should be priced as it expected  to see customers wishing to withdraw from the 
fund.
At the first meeting  of L&Gs  committee it was recorded that the property model did 
not currently reflect the reality of the market and therefore was not currently felt to be 
reliable for fair value  pricing purposes. 
Ref: DRN22462376On 4 July 2016  three other  major property fund providers  suspended any further 
dealings in their funds despite  having  already imposed some form of FVP.  
On 6 July 2016  L&Gs  committee felt that, due to market developments and 
sentiment, the FVP should be reviewed. It later referred to a leading independent 
property research consultancy forecasting property  values falling by -13% over the 
next 18 months and others expecting this to be -15%, to advice that in the event of 
having to sell any properties within one month,  a 20% discount could be expected, 
and the view that, if Brexit resulted in a hard  landing, property prices could reduce 
by 30% from current valuations.
From  this information he was satisfied  that L&G took steps to safeguard the fund 
while treating all its customers  fairly and reasonably. It is evident that having seen an 
initial fund price  reduction of -5% which was similar to other  fund managers,  the 
consensus of professional opinion was deteriorating with regard to the effects of 
Brexit on the property market. This consensus was implying that property prices  were 
severely overpriced and that downward  adjustments of 30% were not impossible.
The FCAs discussion papers shows it was aware of the actions fund managers were  
taking in pricing their funds and how pricing  was being carried out. It also shows  the 
FCA was satisfied  that the application  of a FVP is an acceptable tool to use when 
valuing illiquid property  funds.
I considered the complaint, and issued  a provisional decision. Before making my provisional  
findings, I said I thought the following were relevant considerations  to what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances: 
The FCAs Principles for Businesses  in particular  Principle  6, which  required L&G 
to treat its customers fairly and act in their best interests.  
The regulatory guidance on pricing at the time (which is still in place now), which was 
set out in COLL 6.3.6G of the FCAs Handbook.  
The FCAs discussion paper (DP17/01),  published in February 2017, which  considers  
some of the risks created  when consumers use open-ended investment funds to gain 
exposure to assets that may be difficult  for the fund manager to buy, sell, or value 
quickly.
The guidance note on fund suspensions  published by the FCA on 8 July 2016. 
The prospectus for the fund, which set the terms under which L&G would  manage  it. 
my provisional findings
My provisional findings were, in summary:
I could understand  why, with the benefit  of hindsight, Mr G and his representative 
had questioned the need for the FVP to be applied.  But in considering whether L&G 
acted fairly and reasonably in applying the FVP I must focus on what  was known  at 
the time.  
Ref: DRN22462377I was satisfied that L&G did act fairly and reasonably in applying  the FVP, given what  
was known at the time. 
In the circumstances, I thought it was fair and reasonable for L&G to consider making 
an adjustment to its prices. There was no market data immediately following the 
Brexit vote but there was a general  consensus that property prices would be 
negatively impacted by the vote.  
The regulatory guidance and L&Gs prospectus, which reflected the guidance, meant  
L&G could arrive  at a price by deciding what, in its opinion, reflects  a fair and 
reasonable price. And valuing the assets  held by the fund involved a degree of 
subjective judgment, particularly so given the significant challenge posed by a 
significant, unprecedented event like the Brexit vote. So I thought,  in the 
circumstances, L&G had considerable  discretion in arriving at pricing  decisions.  
L&G clearly gave  careful thought to the application of the FVP. Its board and a 
committee of senior members of staff met several times.  It discussed things with the 
FCA. It looked at what other  fund managers were  doing.  In the absence of any 
property sales price  data it considered market commentary, and property investment 
trust prices. It also created a pricing model, to allow it to estimate property prices. 
L&Gs board  and committee met a number of times in one day before applying the 
15% FVP and did not reach a decision until the evening. So it clearly  spent a long 
time making the decision, and attached a lot of significance to it. 
The amount  of the FVP, once decided,  was broadly in line with the adjustments that 
other managers of similar funds applied, and consistent with the market commentary 
L&G had regard  to. Id not seen  any evidence that market commentators at the time 
thought it was unreasonable to think there might be a 15% fall in commercial property 
values as a result  of the Brexit vote. Some commentators may have thought  the 
impact would be less than this. But it was clear  from the actions of some of the 
managers of similar funds  (who  applied larger FVPs) that others thought it might be 
more. 
The nature  of the fund and the assets held by the fund were also important factors  to 
consider. Sales from the fund were  being met from cash  held by it, not by selling 
underlying assets. So L&G had to ensure  the amount of cash  it released  was a fair 
reflection of the value at that time.  If it released  too much, that would  be to the 
detriment of the remaining investors.  It needed  to be kept in mind  that the fund held 
large commercial properties.  These were not things that could be easily sold quickly, 
and sometimes they cannot be sold at all. Sales,  if agreed,  could take a long time to 
complete and be impacted by market sentiment in the meantime. And it was relevant  
to consider what might  happen if L&G was forced  to try and sell properties quickly, to 
meet unit sale orders. So L&G was right to give careful  consideration to the risk of 
overvaluing units  if it did not make  a price adjustment.  
I thought it was reasonable for L&G to take into account commentary  relating to likely 
property sale prices  in 18-24 months time, the possibility that a fire sale would result 
in a 20% fall in value, and property share values. Mr G was being  paid immediately 
for the share of the properties he held, but the properties themselves might  not be 
sold for a long time. There was no market sales data in the period  immediately  
Ref: DRN22462378following the Brexit  vote. So L&G only had market commentary  and indicators of 
market sentiment to rely on. And the values of property shares were a good indicator 
of market sentiment.  I also did not think it was implausible to conclude, if L&G had to 
sell properties quickly in an uncertain market, that might result  in a significant 
discount to the prices  being achieved for sales conducted under normal  timescales, 
before the Brexit  vote. 
The FCAs discussion paper was not, in my view, critical of the conduct  of fund 
managers in applying FVPs following  the Brexit vote. It instead acknowledged  the 
significant challenges fund managers faced following the vote. It also acknowledged 
the need to maintain market confidence  by providing liquidity, and to act in the best 
interests of all investors.
Clearly, with hindsight, suspension would have  produced a better  result  for Mr G than 
the FVP.  But I could  not rely on the benefit of hindsight  when  considering what  is fair 
and reasonable.  I thought it was fair and reasonable in the circumstances for L&G to 
continue to offer liquidity, so those customers who wanted  to buy and sell units were  
able to do so. I also thought it fair to note that Mr G and his representative, in giving 
an instruction to sell, clearly had an expectation of liquidity. And that liquidity  was still 
available after Mr G sold his units  so he had the option of going  back  into the fund,  
if he wanted to, which  would have effectively reversed the FVP.  
I did not think it was reasonable to use hindsight knowledge of how the market 
actually performed - such as sales later achieved following the Brexit vote by other 
property fund managers  to judge the decision made by L&G.  In deciding whether 
L&G acted fairly  and reasonably in applying the FVP I was not asking whether the 
FVP transpired to be an accurate reflection of how the market actually performed 
after it had been applied. I was asking whether it was fair and reasonable to apply it 
given what was known  at the time. For the reasons given, I thought  it was. 
I agreed with Mr Gs representative that a consequence of the FVP being applied 
was that less people may have chosen to leave the fund. And it was also a 
consequence that L&G could continue to say that it had never suspended its fund. 
But that didnt  mean the FVP was applied for those  reasons, and Id seen no 
evidence to suggest that was the case.  
In my view, the available  evidence showed  that the FVP was a result of careful 
consideration of a challenging  market and applied in an effort to meet the best 
interests of all investors in the fund, by providing  liquidity for those  that wanted to 
leave the fund and protection for those that wanted to stay in it. I thought the loss Mr 
G suffered was a consequence of selling a fund with illiquid underlying  assets in an 
uncertain market, rather than L&G not acting  fairly  and reasonably. 
L&G accepted my provisional findings,  and said it had nothing further to add. 
Mr Gs representative did not accept my provisional  decision. His initial  response  said,  
essentially, that he felt there was clear evidence  to show the FVP had been  applied to attract 
discount buyers, rather than to ensure  an accurate valuation of the assets held by the fund. 
The representative said I should ask the FCA if it knew  about this, before I made a final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN22462379In reply to this, I said I had not seen any evidence that L&G at any point said it used the FVP 
for marketing, and no evidence to show  that L&G asked the FCA permission to use the FVP 
for that purpose.  So I did not think it is appropriate  to ask the FCA about L&G using the
FVP for marketing purposes.  I was satisfied I could fairly decide the complaint on the basis  
of the evidence currently available to me.
Mr Gs representative then made a further submission. In that, he said, in summary; 
L&G used non-bricks  and mortar  metrics to arrive at the -5% FVP,  and the post 
Brexit fall in stock markets was clearly the major indicator. Notwithstanding this, 
when L&G increased their FVP to -15% stock markets had bounced  back to above  
pre-Brexit levels. So there was a good  case to remove the FVP or, at least, maintain 
it at -5%. 
Another fund managers commercial property sales experience in the post Brexit  
period provided  evidence  that there had not been a fall in commercial  property  
values. The FVP policy is brought in where  no recent price exists,  there  were  recent  
prices, so L&G should have been  using them. 
L&G used reports forecasting 13%-15%  falls in 18 months time, but the FVP policy 
was there to establish current market value.
The proceeds of a forced sale cannot possibly be used to determine real current  
property values; that speaks for itself. And with liquidity of over £600m L&G would 
have no need  to sell property under market value.  A 15% down-valuing of the 
property portfolio would have meant that all properties would have  had to be sold at 
an average loss of 15% to support the 15% FVP. 
The fall in property  company shares just reflects investors decisions to exit the 
sector. The share price does not reflect the real value of assets.  The issue at hand is 
the value of developed properties  already in L&Gs book, so property company 
shares are not an appropriate metric. 
L&G referred to the fall in other  property  funds, but this was predominantly swinging 
price fund managers. The total swing could  be 10% or more, and this is the main 
reason for the heavier unit price falls. However, the downward swing in unit prices  did 
not translate to a devaluation of property assets.  
Even though  bricks and mortar property values had not fallen, L&G attracted buyers, 
but at heavy cost to sellers during the -15% FVP period.  Property  values did not fall, 
so remaining unit holders took benefit from sellers  being  penalised   and L&G took 
benefit from higher  funds under  management.
At L&Gs morning  meeting it was the committees view that the -5% FVP represented 
fair value of total portfolio  assets, and this was recorded in the meeting notes. It was 
not until the midday meeting, at which time L&G first became aware of the high 
outflows from the fund, I that L&G gave thought  to an increase in FVP so it is clear 
that the aim was to stem further  outflows.  The only explanation for L&Gs  actions can 
be the desire to stem out-flows and compete for discount buyers.  
L&Gs FVP policy only gives it leave  to use current market metrics to establish  the 
current value of its property portfolio. It cannot be right to accept L&Gs inference that 
Ref: DRN224623710its FVP policy gives it leave to down-value assets based on what  property values 
may or may not be in 18 months time. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the view that the key question to deciding what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint is - did L&G act fairly and reasonably in applying the FVP? I 
have set about below what I think are the relevant considerations when  answering  this. 
relevant considerations 
L&G is a regulated firm and was carrying out regulated activities.  It therefore had a 
regulatory obligation, set by the FCAs Principles for Businesses, to treat its customers fairly  
and act in their best interests (Principle 6). That needs to be considered from the perspective  
not only of Mr G, but all the other investors in the fund. 
The relevant  regulatory guidance  at the time (which is still in place now) was set out in COLL 
6.3.6G of the FCAs Handbook. I think (5) is the relevant part of that guidance  here. That 
said: 
Where the authorised fund manager has reasonable grounds  to believe that:
no reliable price  exists for a security at a valuation point; or
the most  recent price available does not reflect the authorised fund manager's  best 
estimate of the value  of a security at the valuation  point
it should value  an investment at a price which, in its opinion, reflects  a fair and reasonable 
price for that investment  (the fair value price);
L&G has also referred to (1), which said:
Where possible, investments should be valued  using  a reputable source.  The reliability of 
the source of prices  should be kept under regular review.
The FCA published a discussion paper (DP17/01) in February 2017. That paper considers 
some of the risks created  when consumers use open-ended investment funds to gain 
exposure to assets  that may be difficult  for the fund manager to buy, sell, or value quickly. 
(1.1)
Although the paper  post-dates the events Im looking  at here I think it is a relevant 
consideration, as it features commentary from the FCA on the recent experience  following 
the result  of the referendum on the UKs  membership of the EU, when several fund 
managers of open-ended property funds suspended dealing in their fund or applied  
adjustments to its asset valuations (1.7). It therefore  offers some insight into how the 
regulator views the actions of property fund managers following  the Brexit  vote.  
The paper says (1.3) that open-ended funds investing in illiquid assets may experience  
difficulties if investors expect to be able to withdraw  their money  quickly and at short notice. 
Many funds offer daily dealing opportunities to investors, but hold assets that are not 
Ref: DRN224623711revalued on a daily basis. This creates a tension,  as assets cannot be sold in a day to meet  
daily redemption requests.
It also says (1.5) that fund managers can address the tension  between investors needs by 
enabling normal dealing  to happen wherever possible
The paper acknowledges the challenges faced by fund managers  following the Brexit  vote 
(2.5):
The uncertainty caused by the vote to leave was reflected in market  valuations generally, 
and market commentary suggested  that further significant price  falls in the commercial  
property sector were  possible. Most managers  of UK-domiciled, open-ended  property funds 
then faced two challenges: how to value  their property portfolios accurately and how to 
manage a significant  increase in redemptions from 24 June onwards.
It also notes (2.8) the importance of customer confidence when considering suspension of a 
fund:
In early July we organised a round-table meeting  with a group of fund managers  and 
depositaries to consider the situation. The group discussed the idea of a general  suspension  
of property funds,  but we were concerned that this could cause a further loss of confidence 
in the sector  and further market decline.
On FVPs the paper says (3.41):
A FVP adjustment  is a way to achieve an accurate  price, not a liquidity management tool, 
although investors that wish to redeem might think it is being  used to discourage them  from 
selling. However, the managers  decision would still be justified if it would be in the best 
interests of investors as a whole.
And at 4.2 the paper acknowledges:
Our current rules and guidance  say relatively little about the use of fair value pricing for non 
financial Assets. Nor, in this regard, do we give guidance on what governance process  the 
fund manager  should employ (for example in relation to a valuation  committee) or what the 
role of the independent valuer might  be in this process.
The paper also notes (4.24) that fund managers  have considerable discretion about  whether 
to use any of the various tools  specific to liquidity management
The paper also refers to a guidance note on fund suspensions published by the FCA on 8 
July 2016. That included the following: 
Funds holding  a large proportion of assets  that may be, in certain  circumstances, illiquid or 
hard to value such as commercial property may consider  that the suspension should be lifted  
and investors given the opportunity to redeem at a revised valuation of the units  in the fund. 
This redemption price might reflect the price at which illiquid  assets can be realised in a 
shorter than usual timeframe.
Finally, the prospectus for the fund set the terms under  which L&G would  manage  it, and 
included the following (where ACD  is referring  to L&G);
Ref: DRN224623712If in the opinion of the ACD,  the prices of Scheme Property obtained are unreliable or no 
recent price  exists or does not reflect  the ACD's best estimate  of the value of the Scheme 
Property, the ACD  may substitute a value which, in the ACD's opinion  is fair and reasonable. 
I am also aware that, following my provisional decision,  the FCA published a consultation 
paper (CP18/27). That paper begins a consultation of how the valuation of open-ended 
funds holding illiquid assets  should be approached, and details feedback  received following 
the discussion paper. The paper refers to the challenges which  faced fund managers of 
funds holding illiquid assets  following  the Brexit vote and the lessons which could be learned 
from the experience.  It proposes suspension  where there is significant uncertainty  about  
prices in the future. 
I have reached my findings with all these things in mind. 
did L&G act fairly and reasonably in applying the FVP?
Having carefully reconsidered  things I remain satisfied, for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision and below, that L&G did act fairly and reasonably at the time, in 
applying the FVP. 
The fund allows investors access to a market which does not offer natural liquidity. The sort 
of properties the fund held (such as large  offices  and shopping centres)  arent traded 
frequently. But the fund allows investors to buy or sell based on the fund managers 
estimation of the value of the underlying  property  on a day to day basis.  When considering 
values the fund manager might look to completed sales,  the prices  of properties being  
marketed, commentary from market participants and general sentiment, amongst other 
things. This is a fairly routine task in a stable  market. But, where  there is an exceptional  
market event which creates uncertainty, like the Brexit vote, it becomes more of a challenge. 
In the immediate aftermath of the Brexit vote there  was considerable concern about the 
impact on the commercial property market.  This resulted  in a large number of investors 
looking to sell their holdings in UK property funds,  in the light of a significant amount of 
media speculation and negative market  commentary. And it led to a period of considerable 
market uncertainty.  
As noted above,  the guidance in place at the time said:
Where the authorised fund manager has reasonable grounds  to believe that:
no reliable price  exists for a security at a valuation point; or
the most  recent price available does not reflect the authorised fund manager's  best 
estimate of the value  of a security at the valuation  point
it should value  an investment at a price which, in its opinion, reflects  a fair and reasonable 
price for that investment  (the fair value price);
I think it fair to say L&G had reasonable grounds to believe  that the price was not reliable or 
did not reflect its best estimate of the value.  As mentioned, there was considerable market 
uncertainty following the Brexit vote.  
In the circumstances I think L&G was essentially faced with two choices  to suspend the 
fund until the market stabilised, therefore not allowing anyone to buy or sell units, or to seek  
Ref: DRN224623713views on the likely  value of UK commercial properties, following the vote, and consider the 
valuation of the properties held by the fund accordingly. 
L&G took the latter of these options. I think it was fair and reasonable for it to take that 
option. There were no rules or guidance in place  at that time which required suspension. 
This option was consistent with the guidance that was in place and with the prospectus  for 
the fund, which reflected  that guidance  and made  investors in the fund aware that such  an 
option may be taken  if there was market uncertainty.  L&G would also have been aware there  
were investors who wished to have  liquidity i.e. the option to sell their investments. And, as 
Mr Gs representative notes, the fund did hold significant cash  so it was able to meet a 
large number of redemption requests. 
Mr Gs representative takes the view that the FVP was applied to reduce outflow and attract  
discount buyers. This implies that it was arbitrary or penal. But the representative  also 
appears to accept that the FVP was arrived at by reference to some  market factors,  in 
saying that it took factors  into account  but they were irrelevant or inappropriate. Setting aside 
that there  is some contradiction in these points, I dont think  either are supported by the 
available evidence. 
I have not seen any evidence to show that the FVP was applied  simply to deter sellers and 
attract buyers. The minutes of the meetings which took place do not make reference  to a 
desire to stop investors leaving the fund,  or to attracting new ones. They make reference to 
what factors  ought to be considered when  arriving at a value for the assets in the fund.  
As mentioned in my provisional decision,  senior staff at L&G met three  times  before  deciding 
to apply the -15% FVP. I have again carefully  considered the minutes from those  meetings,  
and will set out more  detail of them below. 
At the first meeting,  the minutes note:
A number of property  funds had been  suspended. The main reason for this was a 
lack of liquidity.  
Market sentiment was that there would be increased asset sale over the summer 
period, due to market  falls. 
The pricing model had continued  to support the -5% FVP, but market developments 
and sentiment meant the view was this should  be reviewed. 
Market conditions and feedback  were  indicating that a higher pricing adjustment  was 
appropriate. 
Market transactions  were patchy and the numbers  withdrawing from deals had 
increased. 
The view was that the market was entering  a period during which discounts of -5% to 
-15% on current pricing could be asked for by potential  purchasers. 
The market data (real estate investment trust prices and the pricing model)  was only 
proving a partial picture. 
The fund had seen  large outflows, which might  impact on liquidity over a significant 
period. 
At the second  meeting,  it was noted:
A leading  property research consultancy was forecasting  a fall in property values of 
13% over the next 18 months.  Other  views  were  that a 15% reduction was likely
Ref: DRN224623714The funds valuers had been  asked  for their view on pricing on a forced sale basis,  
and would be providing this later in the day. 
It was agreed that a -10% FVP was appropriate.  
And at the third meeting  it was noted:
The valuers had advised that, in the event  of a sale being  forced  within one month,  a 
discount of -20%  would be expected, and a research house  had predicted  falls of up 
to -30% in the case of a hard market landing.  
Another fund manager had implemented  an adjustment  of -22%,  following an initial 
suspension period. 
Given the latest views, a -15%  FVP was felt prudent. 
These notes suggests  L&Gs overriding objective  was to arrive  at a fair and reasonable 
valuation, rather than come up with a figure which would  be sufficient to put investors off 
selling and to attract new ones. And that the -15% FVP was arrived at following careful 
consideration of the views of independent  parties. 
Consideration was given  in the first note to large outflows but this was considered in the 
context of liquidity.  There is nothing to suggest  L&Gs overriding concern was that it might  be 
losing business,  or that its actions were aimed at reducing the number of people selling 
units. It seems to me that L&G was acting prudently  by noting that liquidity may be a concern 
in the future if lots of investors continued to sell their units. 
Ive also not seen sufficient evidence to show the factors L&G considered  when arriving  at a 
value of the fund were  irrelevant or inappropriate.  I remain of the view that future prices, 
forced sale prices, the prices of other funds and the performance of shares,  such  as the 
shares of real estate  investment trusts, were all relevant factors  which  it was appropriate  to 
take into account. They are all things which could impact the value of the properties held in 
the fund. And it needs to be remembered that the available evidence  shows L&G was 
considering all these  factors cumulatively,  as well as any available information about  the 
market sentiment at the time  for example, the minutes show  consideration of current  
commercial property pricing, as well as these  other  factors. So L&G was not arriving at a 
value by reference only to likely future  prices  or forced  sales or share prices  it was looking 
at things in the round,  to provide its best estimation of the value of the assets. 
Mr Gs representative has referred  to recent prices being available when L&G applied the 
15% FVP. But I have  seen no evidence to show there were any significant commercial 
property sales completed between the Brexit  vote and 6 July. It may be that Mr Gs 
representative is referring to a bulletin  from another  fund manager which  he has previously 
referred to. That submission is based  on a bulletin issued  by that other  fund manager  in 
September 2016, which included the following: 
the fund has completed, exchanged or agreed to sell 25 properties since July, from across  
all UK regions and property types. They also indicate that the prices achieved are, in 
aggregate, less than 1% lower compared to the last independent valuation  prior to the 
referendum. 
I do not think this is evidence of sales have completed before 6 July 2016  which  L&G ought 
to have had regard to. It refers to completions  exchanges and agreements since  July 2016,  
and was published after the uncertainty following the Brexit vote had cleared. So I remain of 
the view this is hindsight  knowledge, not contemporaneous evidence of values. 
Ref: DRN224623715In hindsight, it is clear that the market quickly bounced back from the uncertainty 
immediately following the Brexit vote. But Im considering whether L&G acted fairly and 
reasonably at the time. The fact that subsequent property  sales show the perceptions of the 
impact of the Brexit  vote changed  relatively quickly, doesnt mean it wasnt  fair and 
reasonable for L&G to apply the FVP when there was significant uncertainty  and the 
consensus of opinion  suggested the Brexit vote may have a significant  negative impact.  The 
FVP was an estimation  of the value at the time i.e. if the assets were  sold on that day. 
I appreciate too that the FCA has acknowledged  in its recent consultation  paper  the risk of 
consumer detriment arising from the application of a FVP in an uncertain market, and has 
suggested suspension if such uncertainty arises again in the future. But I do not think that 
means it was not fair and reasonable for L&G to act as it did at the time. I think  it acted fairly 
and reasonably, in a period of significant uncertainty, to offer investors wishing to leave the 
fund liquidity, and protection to those remaining in it. I do not think  it would  be fair to say, 
given what was known  at the time, and the considerable  uncertainty, that the 15% FVP did 
not amount to a fair and reasonable opinion of the value of the assets held by the fund at the 
time. 
In the light of my findings, I do not think it would  be fair and reasonable to say L&G should 
compensate Mr G for all or some of the amount of the 15% FVP. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2246237