K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  about not being  notified  about the review of their reviewable unit-
linked whole  of life (WOL)  plan by Old Mutual  Wealth Life Assurance Limited (OMW)  in 
2014.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out their WOL plan in 1988  with a sum assured of £100,000 and an 
annual premium of £677.  They gave their address for service  as that of their original  IFA. In 
2014 the plan was reviewed and it failed the review. In the review letter that OMW  sent to Mr 
and Mrs A at the advisers address it said they could  either  increase  the premium  or reduce 
the sum assured. As OMW didnt  get a response it reduced the sum assured.
I made  a provisional decision  on this complaint  a copy of which  is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.  I didnt uphold the complaint  and in short  I made the following findings:
I had seen no evidence that Mr and Mrs A had provided OMW with a different 
correspondence address to the care of address  of their original IFA.
OMW  sent a review letter, and a follow up letter confirming cover  had been reduced, 
to the care of address  in 2014.
Although Mr and Mrs A said they didnt get the letters, and the original IFA has no 
record of receiving  these, it is more likely than not they were  sent.
It is possible the letters got lost in the post although that was unlikely given there 
were two separate letters sent at different times.
The other possibility  is that the original IFA received the letters but didnt  do anything 
with them. That was unlikely  if Mr and Mrs A were still clients  but the original IFA had 
written to all clients  in 1990/1991  asking  if they wanted to remain clients and 
destroyed all records  if they didnt.  As it had no record of Mr and Mrs A it was likely 
they stopped being  clients in 1991.
This probably explains why it has no record of the letters as it would have no 
obligation to do anything with them and no contact details  for Mr and Mrs A.
OMW  did wrongly change the servicing IFA from the original IFA in 2002 so it didnt 
get copies of the review letters sent to the client.
But given  the original IFA didnt have any file for Mr and Mrs A and no contact  details 
I dont think this wouldve led to them being  contacted by the original IFA even if it 
had received copies of the review letters.
The offer of £200 OMW had made for wrongly changing the servicing IFA was 
reasonable.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding. OMW had nothing further to add. Mr and 
Mrs A didnt agree with my provisional decision.  Mr A made the following points:
As a result  of OMW having wrongly changing  the registered  adviser  he didnt 
received information  that wouldve enabled him to discontinue  the plan in 2014.
OMW  didnt ensure  he received the information he needed to make investment 
decisions about the plan.
There is an assumption  that he wouldve continued to pay the premiums to preserve 
the reduced value,  or increase the premiums  to preserve the value, but the sensible 
decision wouldve been  to discontinue  which he wouldve done.
Ref: DRN25906002He was denied  the opportunity to make  such a decision and this was a direct 
consequence of the OMW error.
The sum involved is small for OMW but large for them and the offer of £200  is 
derisory in the context of the facts he has set out.
The original IFA has confirmed that as normal practice they wouldve forwarded the 
review on if it had been received in 2014  and had retained  his home address.
The correspondence from OMW wouldve had his home address on anyway.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted everything  that Mr A has said but he has not said anything that makes me think 
my provisional decision was wrong. What this complaint comes down to is whether Mr and 
Mrs A wouldve  received notice of the review in 2014 if OMW hadnt wrongly changed  the 
servicing IFA.
If OMW hadnt changed the IFA then the original IFA wouldve received both the 
correspondence sent to Mr and Mrs A  because they put the original IFAs address as their 
contact address  and correspondence about the review that was for the servicing IFA.
If an IFA gets correspondence about a review then it would ordinarily be expected to contact 
a client about  that review  and the original  IFA has said this is what  it wouldve done. 
But from what the original  IFA has said I think it is more  likely than not it stopped treating Mr 
and Mrs A as clients in around 1991.  More importantly the original IFA could only contact 
them if it had an address for them  and it has said it had no file or paperwork relating to them. 
So the central issue is whether the original  IFA had an address it could write to Mr and Mrs A 
about the review.
When Mr A said that the original IFA had told him it had his address I asked the adjudicator  
to go back to Mr A and ask him to provide evidence from the original  IFA. The original IFA 
said the following  in respect of a very clear  question about this:
As we do not hold any records of correspondence or a file for Mr A I cannot comment  
confirm whether we received correspondence or not  despite my efforts  I cannot locate any 
documentation for Mr A, however Old Mutual  (Skandia) usually  send a copy to the servicing 
adviser but as no such document(s) have been scanned into our record  keeping system it is 
safe to say none were received.
The original  IFA hasnt  confirmed it had an address for Mr and Mrs A in 2014. Instead it has 
confirmed it had no records for them. The original IFA has said it is safe to say that a copy of 
the review wasnt sent to it as it doesnt  have  a scanned copy - but this isnt in dispute as the 
reason it wasnt sent a copy is because OMW  changed the servicing IFA. But given the 
original IFA didnt have  an address for Mr and Mrs A it couldnt have contacted  them even if 
it had received a copy of the review.
In summary,  based on the evidence I have seen  the only address  that OMW had for Mr and 
Mrs A was the address of the original IFA which was used as a care of address by them.  
And even  if it hadnt changed the servicing IFA Mr and Mrs A would still not have been told 
about the review.  This is because it is more likely than not that they stopped  being clients  of 
Ref: DRN25906003the original adviser  in 1991 and it retained no records for them so had no means  to contact 
them no matter how many letters were  sent to it.
Mr A has said the correspondence from OMW wouldve had his home address on anyway. 
But as I have already pointed  out, it didnt have his address. The only address Mr and Mrs A 
provided when  they applied  for the plan was the care of address of the original IFA. And I 
have seen no evidence  that OMW had any other address for Mr and Mrs A in 2014.
I note what Mr A has said about the £200  offered by OMW. But this amount  isnt to 
compensate them for not being  told about the review in 2014. It is just for OMW changing 
the servicing IFA when  it shouldnt have done which mistake, for the reasons I have set out, 
didnt cause them to continue the plan when they would otherwise have stopped it.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN25906004COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about the review  of their reviewable unit-linked whole  of life (WOL) plan by 
Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limited (OMW)  in 2014.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out their WOL  plan in 1988 with a sum assured of £100,000 and an annual 
premium of £677. It was set up by their Independent Financial Adviser (the original IFA). When  the 
plan was set up the original  IFA put its address as the correspondence address  for Mr and Mrs A.
The premium amount is guaranteed for the first 10 years of the plan.  After this the plan is reviewed 
each year to see if it will last for the next five years. If not OMW will write  to the customer  about how 
long the plan will last for and invite the customer to either increase their premium to cover the current  
sum assured  or reduce  the sum assured and keep the premium the same. 
In 2014 the plan was reviewed and it failed the review. In its review  letter OMW offered to increase 
the premium to £4,597 or reduce the cover to £21,404.  As it didnt receive a response from Mr and 
Mrs A it reduced the sum assured. 
Mr and Mrs A complained in 2018 when they first became  aware that their life cover had been 
reduced. They  wanted  OMW to cancel the plan and repay  all the premiums. OMW offered to put Mr 
and Mrs A in the position  they had £100,000 of cover going forwards at a premium of £7,200.  It also 
offered £200  to them  for wrongly changing the servicing  IFA on the plan from the original IFA. Mr and 
Mrs A didnt agree  to this and referred their compliant to us.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint and thought it should  be upheld.  He said he agreed 
with OMW that it was Mr and Mrs As IFA that was responsible for them knowing the true nature of the 
plan, not OMW.  So he didnt think  there was any basis for it paying back all premiums.
But he thought  Mr and Mrs A were denied the opportunity of encashing their plan in 2014 because  
OMW hadnt told them about  the review and the need to either increase the premium or reduce the 
sum assured.  He was satisfied  that Mr and Mrs A wouldve stopped the plan in 2014 if they had 
known about the review  and thought OMW should pay redress based on them  having  done so.
OMW didnt  agree with the adjudicator. In short it said it hadnt made an error as it had corresponded 
with Mr and Mrs A using the address of the original IFA as it had been instructed  to do, and that it has 
never been asked to amend the correspondence  address. It said the change it mistakenly made  to 
the servicing IFA between 2002 and 2018 wouldnt have stopped  correspondence  being  sent to the 
original IFA address.
There was further correspondence between the adjudicator and OMW but the adjudicator didnt 
change his opinion  so the matter has been referred to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I think  it is important to make clear that my findings and decision are made  on a balance  of 
probabilities. So I am not saying what definitely did or didnt happen, only what is more likely,  than 
not, to have happened  based on the information the parties have provided.
When Mr and Mrs A first took out the plan they identified  their care-of  address  for correspondence as 
the original  IFA address  - so all correspondence to them was sent to that address. OMW has said that 
Ref: DRN25906005this wasnt  changed until 2018, and I have seen nothing to suggest  it was provided  with a different 
address to write to before  this.
I have seen a copy of the review letter sent to Mr and Mrs A at the care-of address  in 2014.  The letter 
gave them the option of either increasing  the premium  significantly or reducing the sum assured  from 
£100,000 to £21,404  which was also the default option if OMW received  no response.
I have also seen  the follow up letter  sent to Mr and Mrs A at the care-of address when  no response 
was received, confirming cover had been reduced.
Mr and Mrs A were not made  aware of these  letters  and the original IFA has said it has no record of 
having received these.  But that doesnt  mean  the letters werent sent.  It is normal practice for a 
business providing  reviewable whole  of life cover to write to customers on review when  the current  
premium is no longer enough for the cover being  provided and a premium increase or reduction to 
sum assured  is needed.  OMW has also produced  copies of the letters that it says were sent. In the 
circumstances I think it is more likely than not the letters were sent.
I accept Mr and Mrs A didnt see the letters. But that isnt as a result of anything  that OMW did wrong. 
It is possible the letters  were  lost in the post, although I think that is unlikely given there were  two 
separate letters sent at different times. 
The other  possibility is that the original IFA received  the letters but didnt do anything  with them. If Mr 
and Mrs A were still clients  of the original  IFA I think that would also have been unlikely. But the 
original IFA told Mr A in a recent  email that it has no record  of any files on microfilm, DVD  or paper  
relating to Mr and Mrs A. 
It explained that it had written to clients  in late-1990/early-1991 asking if they wanted to remain clients 
and that if they did they needed to pay a nominal  £10 a month. It also said that if a client didnt want to 
remain active  it would destroy their paper file and no microfilm or DVD file would exist. So, given  it 
has no file for Mr and Mrs A, I think  it is more likely than not that it stopped treating Mr and Mrs A as 
clients in or around  1991. 
I think  that probably explains why it has no record of receiving the letters  sent in 2014. It would have 
had no obligation  to forward these on if Mr and Mrs A werent clients,  and wouldnt have had any 
contact details  for them even if it had decided  to forward these on. 
I now turn to what OMW did get wrong, namely the change to the servicing IFA for the plan from the 
original IFA to a new IFA. This happened at the end of 2002.  From what OMW has said this was 
because it had misunderstood an authority from Mr and Mrs A to provide information to a new IFA as 
authority to change the IFA itself.
There is no dispute that OMW got this wrong. But Im not persuaded  this wouldve changed  what  
happened in 2014 for reasons I will explain.
If the original IFA had remained as the servicing IFA for the plan it wouldve received notification of 
the review in 2014. OMW has recently explained that it wouldnt have received copies of the review 
letters sent to Mr and Mrs A but instead a covering letter  with regard  to all of its clients that were  
coming up for review,  and for all products.  I note that this contrasts with what  was said by OMW in 
earlier correspondence when it referred to copies of the reviews letters being sent to the IFA.
But I have already  said that I think it is more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs As original adviser  
removed them as clients in about 1991. Given this, even if the IFA had received  copies of the review 
letters I think  it is unlikely this wouldve resulted in the original adviser contacting Mr and Mrs A or 
taking any other action  given the original IFA didnt  have any file for them  so had no way to contact 
them anyway.
Ref: DRN25906006So, in short, I dont think OMWs failing  with regard to changing the servicing IFA in 2002 has caused 
Mr and Mrs A to continue paying a premium  they would otherwise have stopped paying in 2014.
OMW has offered £200 for having made the mistake in changing the servicing IFA which  I think is 
reasonable for any distress and inconvenience caused. Mr and Mrs A were  unaware of the mistake 
until 2018, it was rectified by OMW when it was made aware of it and it didnt change  what wouldve 
happened in 2014 and lead them to continue to pay the premium when they would otherwise have 
stopped this.
I have noted the conflicting information OMW has provided in this complaint. It wrongly stated that 
payment of the premium was by cheque when all but the initial premium  was paid by direct debit.  It 
has also provided  conflicting information about what review information wouldve been sent to the 
servicing IFA. This has made investigating the complaint more difficult than it needed  to be. But I dont 
think its complaint  handling caused any material distress and inconvenience  to Mr and Mrs A that 
would justify  awarding  any more to them.
 
I know Mr and Mrs A will be disappointed I have reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator.  But 
the evidence I have seen  doesnt support  a conclusion that they wouldve  stopped paying the 
premium for the plan in 2014 or taken any other action before 2018, when they became aware  of the 
change to the plan as a result of the 2014 review. 
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  for the reasons I have set out above. 
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2590600