K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2005. Miss A says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Miss A says PPI wasnt mentioned when  she took out her credit card in branch and she 
didnt know it had been added to her account. But Lloyds have said that Miss A agreed  to 
take it out on her application form by completing  a separate section  for PPI - ticking  to 
choose to take the cover.  Ive seen a copy of Miss As signed application form and can see 
the section Lloyds are referring to. Its not the clearest of copies but from what  I know about 
the way Lloyds sold PPI at the time, and from similar application forms Ive seen from around 
the same  time, I think what  Lloyds have said is likely to be right  and Miss A marked  the 
box to choose  PPI cover for her card. 
Lloyds have given  me a copy of some of their internal records  from the sale including 
Miss As personal summary & recommendation details  for the insurance.  This suggests to 
me that there was some discussion  about  the PPI at the time.  
Im also aware that a charge  for the policy would normally have shown as a separate  entry 
on her credit  card statements. If she didnt know what this charge was for or hadnt agreed  to 
taking out the PPI, I think she would have raised this with Lloyds sooner than she did.
So overall, I think its likely Miss A was aware that she was taking PPI and that she chose to 
take it out at the time  knowing she didnt have to. Although  I can understand why Miss A 
doesnt remember this now - as the sale was a long time ago.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss A so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.
I can see that Miss A was self-employed at the time.  But from what I know  about  this policy 
the steps Miss A, as someone who was self-employed, would have to take to make an 
unemployment claim were different to someone who was employed (this is to be expected).  
But I dont think it would  have been harder for her to make a claim than someone  who was 
employed.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss A about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. And I dont  think  she has lost out because of anything  Lloyds mightve  done  wrong.  
Ref: DRN23550752my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2355075