K820x#14complaint
Mr R has an offset mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC.  He has a joint account, an 
investment account,  a personal account and the mortgage account. 
Hes unhappy because  he can't link the joint account  to the offset  mortgage.  He can link 
every other account to it apart from his joint account.  Hes therefore not receiving  any 
advantage from the money  in the joint account.
To resolve  his complaint  he wants Barclays to link all his accounts to the mortgage.
background
Mr R says that on 8 March 2018 he had a discussion with a Barclays  mortgage  adviser  and 
that he told her that his joint account (with his wife) had funds  of about £15,000 and that he 
was looking for an off-set  mortgage to benefit  from this.
Barclays made a mortgage offer to Mr R dated  16 March  2018 which  he accepted.  On 
31 May 2018 Barclays wrote to him:
We are delighted to confirm that, following completion of your Barclays Offset Mortgage, we 
have now linked all the accounts below into your offset arrangement. The accounts in your 
offset arrangement  are
Barclays then listed these  but the joint account was not included.  When Mr R enquired  about  
this Barclays replied:
Thank you for your recent enquiry  regarding  the above mortgage account. Unfortunately  we 
are unable to link account [number] into the mortgage offset arrangement  as we can only link 
accounts in your sole name.
Mr R says he had never  been  told this before.  On his complaint to Barclays it said that a joint 
account couldnt be linked to a mortgage in a sole name. It apologised for providing him with 
incorrect information and agreed that the adviser should have picked up on the fact that he 
was referring to a joint account. However  it had sent Mr R relevant documentation confirming 
that a joint account couldnt be linked to a mortgage  in a sole name. This was highlighted in 
the Offset Guide that Mr R was sent.
Barclays said it understood Mr Rs frustration and had credited his account with £100  in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience he had experienced.
Mr R wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to our service.
Barclays replied that in case there was a marital dispute which  could result  in legal issues,  it 
had to be specific. As a result it could only link a joint account to a liability in joint names to 
receive benefit.
Barclays said that from the advisers account  and the notes attached to the application,  all 
the evidence suggested the accounts would be in Mr Rs sole name only.  As a result the 
relevant accounts  had been linked. There was no evidence to suggest Barclays  had been 
made aware  otherwise. It was a telephone  interview, conducted by a branch adviser.  There 
may have  been  some  misunderstanding or lack of understanding  during this process.
Ref: DRN26902252Barclays said Mr R had the option  to switch the funds to one of the linked accounts to obtain 
the offset benefit.
Our investigator said the fact that a joint account couldnt be linked to Mr Rs mortgage was 
stated quite clearly in the terms.
The investigator didnt  think it was likely that the account type was mentioned  during Mr Rs 
conversation with the mortgage adviser.  The application form also noted that he was 
provided with the 'offset brochure'  which  detailed  the offset terms and conditions. The offset 
brochure highlighted that Barclays could only link a joint account in order to receive benefit if 
the mortgage was in joint names.
There was no evidence  showing Mr R made Barclays  aware  of linking a joint account. 
Because Mr R was given  the offset guidelines  the investigator couldnt say he wasnt  aware 
that he wouldn't be able to link a joint account to his sole account mortgage.
Mr R replied that his wife had had to sign a disclaimer  in order  to obtain the mortgage.
There was a mortgage acceptance  form relating to the property which had to be signed by 
her. He said it was ironic  that he needed her consent for the mortgage but wasnt allowed to 
use a joint account  for the same mortgage. 
He said he would like to refer the matter to an ombudsman  for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays says it sent to Mr R its guide Help  to make the most of your savings with an Offset  
Mortgage and Mr R hasnt denied this. The guide says:
Linking your Current and Savings Accounts
In order to help you get the best out of your Offset  Mortgage we will automatically link any 
eligible savings and current  accounts  held in your sole or joint names. Please note that the 
offset accounts have  to be in the same  names as the mortgage or in the sole name of one of 
the parties to the mortgage  we will not link joint savings  accounts to sole account 
mortgages.
The Barclays advisers notes of the discussion with Mr R say:
Your priority is to have  an offset mortgage as you currently have £15k  in your Barclays 
current account - you would like to utilise these savings to reduce the interest that you pay 
thus reduce your overall  mortgage term. We have used the offset  calculator to demonstrate  
the potential savings you could make with your current balance. As a result you could pay 
your mortgage off 4 months earlier. All the features and benefits  have been discussed as 
well as the assumptions. I have provided you with the offset brochure.
The disclaimer or mortgage acceptance  form which Mr R refers  to is the consent which an 
occupier of the property, who is not a party to the mortgage, has to give to the mortgage. It 
Ref: DRN26902253just reflects the fact that Mrs R was living  in the property and might have rights  of occupation 
which could otherwise take priority  to the mortgage.
Barclays acknowledged in its final response letter to Mr R dated  19 July 2018 that it had 
provided him with incorrect  information  and apologised for this. I initially took this to mean 
that Barclays accepted it had told Mr R he could link the joint account. However in its 
submission to this service Barclays said that from the advisers account and the notes 
attached to the application, all the evidence suggested the accounts  would  be in Mr Rs sole 
name only.
Having seen all the evidence Im satisfied that what Barclays  meant  in the letter was that the 
adviser hadnt realised  that Mr R was referring  to a joint account and that she should have 
picked up on this. And of course the documentation given to Mr R confirmed that a joint 
account couldnt be linked to a mortgage in a sole name.
On Mr Rs case he would be, in effect, receiving the benefit of his wifes 50% share of the 
joint account although she was not a party to the mortgage. She would be deprived of her 
share of the interest which could be earned  by placing those funds in a joint savings account 
instead of linking them to an account (the offset  mortgage) in the sole name of Mr R.
But if she isnt concerned about  this, the answer to the problem may be to transfer the 
£15,000 to one of the sole accounts if Mrs R is willing to do that, or to make  Mrs R a party  to 
the mortgage if she is content to assume that liability. Or to simply split the joint account. 
However I dont consider  it appropriate  to order Barclays to link the joint account to Mr Rs 
sole mortgage without  considering the position  of Mrs R, even if that were possible.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2690225