K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Eldon Insurance Services Limited didnt give him the chance  to amend 
the details hed given it for his motor insurance  policy, which later led to its cancellation. 
background
Mr P set up his policy on 10 November 2018. He had an accident on 12 December 2018 
whilst travelling for business. As Mr P hadnt  included business use on his policy, the insurer 
initially refused to pay the claim and was going  to cancel the policy.  Later on it agreed  to pay 
the claim and allowed  Mr P to cancel  the policy himself. Mr P said he hadnt been  able to 
check the details  hed provided  on Eldons online portal, so he thought Eldon was at fault. He 
said hed always included business use on his previous policies. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ps complaint. She thought  Eldon  should pay Mr P 
£150 compensation. She said he didnt get a chance to access  the portal to review his 
details and had been sent several  blank emails  from Eldon. She said he didnt contact Eldon 
due to the personal problems he was facing at the time. Mr P said Eldon  should pay for his 
new insurance policy, which cost £1,250,  in addition to the £150 compensation. As the 
investigator didnt  agree  to that, the complaint was passed to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding  the complaint as follows:
I think its clear  that Mr P didnt  intend  not to include business use when he completed the 
policy details online  he just made  an error. That could  have  been  put right when he first 
checked those  details. Mr P told us he noted  that some  of the entries  hed made online didnt 
transfer correctly over to Eldons site, so he made  some corrections. But he didnt notice at 
the time that hed omitted business use.  
Mr P got an email from Eldon on 10 November 2018. It said details of how to access  the 
portal would be sent to him shortly. He says he didnt get those details, but he got a blank 
email from Eldon. When we asked  about  that, Eldon was unable to trace the blank email on 
its system. But I think Mr P should  have  contacted  the number  Eldon  gave him in its email 
for its customer services team, given that there  seem to have  been  some communication 
problems at the outset.  As he didnt, Eldon was unaware of them. The other  two blank 
emails Mr P got from Eldon were dated  after the accident, so I dont think theyre relevant to 
this issue. 
A second email  Eldon sent to Mr P on 10 November  2018 offered him the chance to have  
the policy documents sent to him by post. He says he didnt click on the link to make that 
happen. I can see why he may not have done that initially, as he may have expected to be 
able to view the documents  on the portal at that point.  But if he had trouble  getting into the 
portal, I think  thats one way he could have tried to access the documents, in addition  to 
calling Eldons customer services team or emailing it for help.
Eldon says Mr P didnt  try to access the portal  until after the accident. It has given us a 
screenshot from its online system provider to show thats the case. It may be that Mr P was 
unable to register for the portal. He says he tried, but got an error message when he did so. 
The systems provider  told Eldon that happens  when a user enters incorrect details.  If Mr P 
had any problem with the portal, I think its reasonable to say that he should have made  
Eldon aware of the problem, using  the contact details it had provided.  
Ref: DRN24360082Eldon says when  it asked  Mr P why he hadnt contacted it, he said hed been busy. He told 
our investigator he was facing difficult family circumstances at the time. I understand that 
personal problems  may have distracted  Mr P, but he had over four weeks to contact Eldon 
before the accident happened. I think it was his responsibility to ensure  the details Eldon 
held were correct. 
Mr P accepts that Eldon gave him the option  of having the documents  sent to him by post. 
And it gave  him contact  details should he require  any assistance with the portal. The 
evidence suggests  that Mr P didnt try to access it until after the accident. But even if he did, 
I cant see why he didnt  follow up on any problem he was having with it. 
As I dont think Eldon  acted unreasonably,  I dont think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. 
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional view. Eldon accepted it. Mr P accepted  
that he had time to follow up on the blank emails  but didnt do so. Hed previously told us 
about the difficult personal  circumstances he was dealing with at the time,  and he said a very 
close family member had since died. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear about Mr Ps bereavement,  and I understand why he was distracted 
by his personal circumstances in 2018.  But I dont think  the evidence  shows that Eldon acted 
in a way that justifies  his complaint. Despite  my sympathy for Mr P, I remain of the view that 
it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to uphold his complaint. 
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2436008