K821x#15Complaint
Ms K says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with a store  card she took 
out at a well-known  retail  store  in 1996. A company called Financial Insurance  Company 
Limited is now responsible for answering  Ms Ks complaint,  so Ill therefore refer to FICL 
throughout this decision.  
Background
FICL says the PPI was taken out over the phone.  Ms K says she doesnt remember agreeing 
to it. 
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and provided a view that it should  be upheld.  
FICL disagreed and so its been  passed  to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im upholding  Ms Ks complaint.
I was sent the agreement  Ms K signed  when she took out the card account  at the actual 
store, dated 10 June  1996. I see she clearly indicated on this that she didnt want any PPI 
with her new store card. 
FICL says the PPI was added around  3 months  later during a phone  call. But it hasnt got 
any recording of the call or anything to explain how or why Ms K appears to have changed 
her mind  during the relatively short  period after saying she didnt want  PPI.  FICL cant show 
me anything  else that shows  she agreed to the policy.
However, Ive considered  that its possible Ms K changed her mind and decided to have  PPI 
after all. But Ive also seen that Ms K suffered from a medical condition  at the point of sale 
that would  have made claiming for certain illnesses quite  difficult.  Looking  at what FICL says 
about how the PPI was sold, I dont think the rules  about claiming for pre-existing medical 
conditions would have  been made clear enough  to Ms K. The original application form didnt 
contain very clear  information about  the PPI rules  either.
Those being sold policies like this had a right to be provided with clear enough information 
which enabled them  to make an informed decision about what they wanted to do. I dont 
think this happened  in this case and I dont  think Ms K would have  wanted  the PPI had it 
been explained that claiming could be a problem.  I think she would have considered it very 
poor value  for money and not suited to her situation.
Its for this reason that I think the policy was mis-sold.
What FICL should do to put things right
FICL should put Ms K in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already and FICL should:
Ref: DRN24832832Pay Ms K the amount  she paid each  month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest 8% a year from .
If Ms K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Ms K a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am upholding Ms Ks complaint and directing 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited to pay compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms K to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2483283