K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc refused to let him reject a faulty  car.
background
In January 2018 Mr S bought a car at a cost of £10,991 funded by a fixed  sum loan and a 
deposit of £2,000. It was second hand and had done 69,215 miles. Within 30 days Mr S took 
the car back  to the dealer with a broken fuel flap and engine  noise. The mechanic couldnt  
hear the noise  but ordered  a new fan belt and tensioner. These were fitted month  later. In 
the meantime  the car broke  down  on 16 March and was inspected by the AA. The report  
shows that there was a fault with the diesel particulate filter (DPF).  
At that time Mr S pointed  out that a warning light had come  on. The dealer looked at this as 
a matter of goodwill as the car was outside the 28 day warranty period. It says the fault was 
due to a temperature sensor which it replaced.  Shortly after this an engine  management light 
(EML) came  on and the car was again  inspected  by the AA. It reported that there was still a 
problem with the DPF. 
Mr S was advised by the dealer to make use of the warranty he had purchased.  He took it to 
another company which said a sensor  needed  to be replaced and it reset the codes. Mr S 
asked that he be allowed  to reject the car, but the dealer refused. Hitachi  rejected  his 
complaint so he brought the matter to this service where it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who recommended  it be upheld.
He noted the issues  which caused  Mr S to complain  were potential faults with the fuel flap, 
the engine noise, EML light and the stop start not functioning. Given  the problems had arisen 
very early in Mrs Ss ownership and after he done only 300 miles he thought it likely that the 
problems were present  at the point of sale. He also thought that the problems hadnt been  
resolved in the first instance  and therefore  Mr S was entitled to reject  the car.
Hitachi didnt agree and said the dealer had told it Mr S had not been in contact since  it had 
repaired the car in April.  It also pointed out Mr S had warranty  which  covers repairs. Hitachi 
arranged for an independent inspection,  but there was a delay in this being carried  out.
The brief report says:  The fault codes show  that the EGR valve is not opening, an internal  
electrical fault has caused this. Due to the EGR  valve not functioning  correctly,  the DPF has 
not regenerated causing it to block up with soot and ash. We recommend that the EGR 
valve, DPF and battery  are replaced.  The inspector  was unable to say if this had been 
present at the point of purchase.
Mr S said that he had contacted the warranty company  which had no knowledge of him. He 
also said the last time the car had been  driven was April 2018 and the mileage  at that time 
70,180. The mileage at the time of the inspection in April 2019  was 70,244. Our investigator 
remained of the opinion that the car was most  likely faulty at the point of sale and Mr S 
should be allowed  to reject it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN21722982In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the fixed sum loan agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Because Mr Ss transaction  with N was financed by credit  supplied to him by Hitachi, section 
75 of the CCA1974  is a factor that needs to be taken  into account when dealing  with his 
complaint. In simple  terms, section  75 gives Mr S an equal right to claim against Hitachi or N 
for a breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the dealer.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It is clear that Mr S had problem within a few weeks of buying the car. The AA report  of 16 
March shows there  was a fault with the DPF. Mr S took the car to the dealer and it arranged 
for it to be repaired. It seems the DPF issue wasnt addressed, even though the AA had 
identified this as a problem.
The fault reoccurred a few weeks later and second report by the AA shows that: Patrol 
found the following fault code/s System: Engine control-  5Z4 I Diesel EDC 17C84 Status: 
P2002- Diesel particulate filter (bank  1). Error Message: Faulty operation.  Error static.  Status 
:P1525- Cruise control/speed limiter. Error Message: Malfunction.  Error static issues with dpf 
Mer. Member  only recently had faults fixed. Adv req immediate garage attention. Drive only 
to garage?
This shows that the fault was present shortly  after the point of sale and was still present after 
the dealer had effected a repair. Under  consumer law the merchant has one opportunity  to 
repair a fault which had been  present at the point of sale. The report  commissioned by 
Hitachi which is very short was unable to indicate if the fault had been present at the point of 
sale. This is not surprising  given  the time which had elapsed since the faults first arose.  
However, on the balance of probability given the faults presented themselves within a few 
weeks of the sale I think  it likely  they were present at the point of sale. I believe there were 
issues with the DPF and these were  not addressed by the dealer when it was given  the 
opportunity to repair the car first. I am aware that DPF issues can be affected  by driving 
style, but given the car had only done  300 miles since purchase I dont believe that would 
explain the DPF problems. 
In conclusion I am satisfied that the car was faulty  at the point of sale and as it wasnt fixed  
at the first attempt Mr S is within his rights to reject it. 
Ref: DRN21722983my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to:
cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr S
it should return his deposit and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
ensure no adverse  information about the agreement is recorded  on Mr Ss credit file
refund  payments from April 2018  when the car was no longer usable.
pay £250 for the trouble and upset caused due to the faulty goods, including  multiple 
return visits for repairs and diagnostics.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2172298