K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about the way that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) handled his Personal 
Choice account  when he was in arrears.
background
Mr L took out a Personal Choice mortgage  with BoS in 2002. This had a flexible options  
agreement attached which allowed Mr L to draw further credit subject to conditions. This 
flexible options  agreement was a credit  agreement regulated by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
In September  2016, Mr L made  his mortgage  payment  by debit card.  Mr L didnt make  a 
payment in October 2016 and BoS wrote to him on 27 October to say that his account  was in 
arrears. Mr L made his October payment in November but not the November payment. On 
17 November, BoS wrote a letter to Mr L telling him of the arrears and that the bank could  
withdraw the flexible  options. On 21 November Mr L wrote a cheque to himself for £700  but 
this was returned Referred  to Drawer. 
Mr L didnt make the December mortgage payment. On 14 December BoS wrote to Mr L to 
say that the December payment had been missed and that the flexible options facility had 
been withdrawn.  BoS contacted Mr L by phone on 15 December  when Mr L advised  that he 
worked as a chef but was between jobs. BoS said it would contact Mr L again  in January. On 
5 January BoS contacted  Mr L who told the BoS adviser that he was unemployed. Mr L 
made one months  payment at the end of January  but made  no payment in February or 
March.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L makes a number of complaints against  BoS. He points out that the bank is supposed to 
act fairly and he doesnt feel that it did so. In particular  when  it referred  to drawer  a cheque 
that he wrote  on 21 November 2016. Mr L says that he wasnt  being made aware of the 
arrears as he was not living at home  and the bank wasnt making an effort to contact him.
If I look at the contact notes for 2016 between  Mr L and the bank its quite clear that there  is 
constant and at least monthly  contact between the bank  and Mr L. This is because Mr Ls 
direct debit mandate wasnt being  met and Mr L was making payments by debit card.  So, as 
Mr L hadnt made a payment in October  and made it in November I consider that its highly 
likely that he was aware that his November payment hadnt been made-apart from the letter 
that BoS sent him telling  him of the arrears. So, from the contact notes Ive looked  at Im 
quite clear that Mr L was aware of the state of his account at the end of 2016 and the 
beginning of 2017.
Ref: DRN20951312BoS then stopped a cheque that Mr L wrote to himself on 21 November for £700. This was 
referred to drawer a few days later when it was presented. At that stage Mr L was in arrears 
on his account  and BoS. Under the terms of the Personal Choice  Account,  this was what is 
known as an event  of default  under the mortgage  and BoS wasnt obliged  to pay any cheque  
after an event of default has occurred. It seems to me that under the terms of the Personal  
Choice agreement BOS  didnt have to meet that cheque.
Mr L says that he missed payments before and BoS met these cheques so why not now and 
isnt that inconsistency unfair? Ive no other information on how BoS dealt with such cheques 
before in such situations. But, BoS retained  the ability under its terms and conditions to 
protect itself  and the borrower  in a situation where someone in financial  difficulties  
looked to incur further debt. Mr L didnt make payments for November or December 2016 or 
February or March 2017 and owed that money to BoS. I note that Mr Ls arrears  in July 2018 
were in excess of £7,000.  I dont believe that Mr L can reasonably complain that the bank 
acted unfairly by failing  to lend him more  money  which would put him in further debt to the 
bank. Nor do I believe that I could  fairly  criticise the bank if it tried to protect  itself by not 
allowing Mr L to increase his indebtedness to it.      
There are a couple of other matters. It seems  that BoS issued a notice of arrears  on Mr Ls 
account in September 2016.  B0S accepts that it was sent in error and offered £100  
compensation which I consider fair. If Mr L wants to accept that, I will leave that to him to 
contact BoS directly. BoS also wrote to Mr L on 4 August 2017 saying that as it hadnt sent 
him a Notice  of Sums  in Arrears it shouldnt have charged interest on those arrears.  Mr L 
was in arrears but as BoS hadnt complied with the requirements of the CCA  it accepted  that 
it shouldnt have charged interest on those arrears. So, BoS refunded the interest  charged 
during this time. BoS has done what we expect it to do in that situation. 
Mr L also says that BoS refused him a payment holiday. I have checked through  the contact 
notes but can see no reference to such a request from Mr L before his Personal Choice 
facilities were  withdrawn. But its difficult to say how such a holiday would have assisted 
Mr L. Because of his financial difficulties in making the mortgage payments, it would appear 
that any such payment  holiday would have  only led to Mr L getting into further arrears.
I accept, as has BoS, that it made  some  errors  in how it dealt with the paperwork 
surrounding the arrears.  But I dont believe that I can fairly blame  BoS for refusing to honour 
Mr Ls cheque at a time when he was in arrears. Unfortunately  he has since been unable  to 
pay off those and indeed they have  increased since early 2017. So, BoSs refusal to meet 
the cheque has been of some benefit to Mr L as its reduced the amount he would otherwise 
owe the bank.  Although  Mr L complains that the bank wasnt contacting him about  the 
arrears, its clear from the contact notes  that Mr L was in regular contact  with the bank. I note 
form the last statement of arrears that I have seen that Mr Ls arrears remain high and I hope 
that he will be able to come to some arrangement with the bank  about  the repayment  of 
those. But for the above reasons I cant fairly  uphold this complaint.   
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Ref: DRN20951313Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2095131