K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Experian  Limited  (Experian) are holding  inaccurate information on his 
credit file and making it very difficult for him to amend it. 
background
Mr B was the victim of identity fraud and therefore wanted to ensure  his credit files were 
clear of any errors. He says he had no problem amending information from the other  
providers and was easily able to open accounts  with them  but he says hes had difficulty  with 
Experian. 
After attempts to open  a basic account with them failed, he signed  up and paid for a fuller  
statutory credit report but wasnt sent the code to activate  this and was promised access 
only to later be told he needed to provide further  documentation about his identity. This, he 
says, led to unacceptable delays.
Mr B also says that Experian  failed to contact the companies that reported inaccurate 
information to them. He complains that its taken far too long for them to take action and as a 
result hes been unable to make  a mortgage application on favourable terms.
Experian said they sent Mr B his credit report in the post, not on line as he expected,  
because there was some confusion over email addresses.  But they did accept thered been 
some delays in providing the information and their customer service could have been better. 
They explained that they had paid Mr B £25 compensation to acknowledge the poor service 
hed received but they thought this was sufficient  in the circumstances. They  explained that 
theyd now arranged for Mr B to have discussions with their victims of fraud team  and had 
subsequently contacted  all of the businesses who may have made inaccurate reports  to the 
credit file they held for him.
But Mr B was still dissatisfied and he therefore  asked  this service to look into matters. Our 
investigator didnt  think  Experian could be held responsible for any financial loss Mr B may 
have experienced as a result of inaccurate  credit reporting. He explained that it was the 
lenders or other financial account  holders, with whom the fraudulent  credit  applications had 
been made, who had reported the issues and any responsibility would  lie with them. He 
understood that Mr B had experienced delays but he thought  Experians offer of £25 
compensation was sufficient in the circumstances  and he didnt think  they needed to take 
any further action.
But Mr B didnt agree. He explained that the paper report Experian had provided was 
useless to him as he was working away and couldnt get access  to it at home. He said hed 
still not received  a copy of the online report hed requested and the delays in Experians 
process had caused  him financial losses. He said £25 wasnt enough to compensate him for 
these losses and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B but I think Experian  have done  enough  here and Im not asking 
them to take any further action. 
Ref: DRN23803642Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I was sorry to hear about the fraud Mr B had been the victim of and I can imagine hes had to 
do a lot of work to put his records straight.  This mustve been frustrating and distressing for 
him and can understand why hes gone  to so much trouble to provide information  to support 
his complaint. Id like to thank him for that and assure him that Ive read the whole file afresh 
when thinking  about what action to take here. 
inaccurate reports
Credit reference agencies, such as Experian, record information that is provided to them by 
lenders and other account providers, but its the lenders  and other account providers that are 
responsible for the information thats  given to the credit reference agencies.  
I can see that Experian have referred  Mr B to their victims of fraud team and that theyve 
been in touch with each  of the businesses who may have reported inaccurate information  to 
Mr Bs file. I think  theyve been fair in doing  so but I cant hold them responsible  for the 
accuracy of the reports the businesses have made or any financial loss hes experienced as 
a result.  Thats for Mr B to take up with the businesses  directly.
provision of the credit report
Its clear there have been delays here.  In particular it seems Mr B was told hed receive an 
access key so he could  view the report online whilst  he was working away  from home, and 
that he was told hed get a report only to discover Experian  still needed  information  to clarify 
his identity.
I understand that Mr B only received a paper copy of his full report as a result  and was 
delayed in being able to view it. But Experian  have  explained that Mr B did get the report 
hed paid for and he is able to access his free online report too, so he can view his credit  
score. Hes therefore had access  to the information  he needed to resolve his problems. I 
think the compensation Experian has provided is sufficient in the circumstances. Ive not 
seen evidence of financial loss and I therefore dont think  it would be reasonable to tell 
Experian to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Phil McMahon
Ref: DRN23803643ombudsman
Ref: DRN2380364