K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly decreased the interest rate on his accounts
after it said it wouldnt.
background
Mr M has two current account with TSB. Following some much-publicised  problems with its
computer systems TSB decided, from May 2018, to increase the interest paid on existing
customers current accounts  up to 5% to thank  them  for their loyalty. In a radio interview
TSBs Chief  Executive  Officer (CEO) said that this rate increase would be there for good.
Shortly after, TSB issued a statement that clarified this saying that the rate wont  be taken
away after a year.
In April 2019, TSB got in contact with its customers to say it intended  to decrease the
interest rate to 3% with effect from 2 July 2019 on balances up to £1,500.  But it said that 
until that date,  customers  would continue to benefit  from the higher 5% rate.
Mr M didnt  think  this was fair  he says TSB had given a commitment  to keep the rate at 
5%. So, he complained to TSB.  TSB said it regularly reviews  rates across its product range  
and continues to assess the rates we pay our current account customers  given changing 
market conditions. And it said the account terms and conditions allowed it to do this.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that the interest rate on the account was variable and TSB was permitted to make 
changes in line with the terms and conditions.  He also explained  that this service cant  tell a 
business what interest rate it should  pay its customers.
Mr M disagrees so the complaint comes  to me to decide. He says, people were  attracted by 
the rate of 5% and this rate was stated as being  for good. He says the bank misled  the 
public and the bank representative he spoke with in April 2019 hadnt been honest  with him 
about what TSB had promised. Mr M says, some penalising of the Bank  is justified.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the
same conclusion as our investigator  and for broadly  the same reasons. I realise Mr M will be
disappointed so Ill explain  my reasoning.
First of all, its important  that I explain that this Service  doesnt supervise, regulate or 
discipline the businesses  we cover, so Im not able to direct  TSB to change  the interest rates 
on the accounts it provides. And my role isnt to punish or penalise businesses for their 
performance or behaviour  thats the role of the regulator, in this case  the Financial  
Conduct Authority.  My role is to look at whats happened and decide  whether TSB has acted 
fairly and reasonably.
The starting point  for my decision is what the terms and conditions  of Mr Ms account say 
because they set out the details of the agreement between Mr M and TSB. They define what 
Mr M can expect  from the account and his relationship with TSB. Because of this, I place
significant evidential  weight on them.
Ref: DRN29729852These clearly explain that the interest  rate on the account is variable which means  it could
go up or down. From  this, Im satisfied it was clear  there was always the possibility interest
rates might go down  independent of any statement TSB made that might  suggest otherwise.
Theres a mechanism in place within the terms and conditions  that sets out how TSB can
decrease the rate on the account and thats  by giving its customers  two months  notice of its
intention to do so. This allows customers time to review their situation and, if necessary, 
consider alternative  banking arrangements.
In this case TSB let its customers  know in April 2019  that it intended to decrease  the 
interest rate on the account from 2 July 2019, so Im satisfied it fulfilled the obligation set 
out within the terms and conditions.
Ive listened very carefully to the interview  with TSBs CEO in which he said, The rate wont  
change. Were not like other banks who give you a high rate and then take it away. Its there  
for good
I accept this statement  may have suggested to Mr M that TSB would leave the interest at 
5% indefinitely. But this would be a very unusual thing for a bank to commit to, given the 
unpredictability of interest rates and market conditions and the need to remain  competitive. 
In my view, the statement  TSB made subsequently  clarified its position on this statement:
we are also increasing the interest  rate on our Classic Plus account from 3% to 5%. We 
promise this wont be taken away after a year
I think this statement explains the banks position  it wont change the interest rate within 
a year  which  it didnt.
In this case, Mr M benefitted  from the higher interest rate for more than a year,  from May 
2018 to July 2019. So, I dont think TSB has misled  Mr M and Im satisfied it complied with 
its commitment  that the rate wouldnt be taken away by the first anniversary of the 
increase.
But the fundamental point  here is that the account  was a variable interest rate account  
meaning that Mr M would  have known that the rate could go up or down from time to time. 
And TSB gave him the appropriate notice to allow  him time to decide if he wished to 
remain banking with TSB or seek alternative  arrangements with a better  interest rate.
So, in summary,  even if I felt TSB could have explained its intentions more  clearly, Im not
persuaded that its acted unfairly  and I wont be asking it to compensate Mr M.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2972985