K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited declined his pet 
insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
background
Mr C took out pet insurance for his dog, insured with Red Sands,  in 2009 and renewed the 
policy over the years.  The policy gives  cover for a condition for 365 days from the onset date 
of the condition or until the policy limit of £4,000  has been reached,  whichever  is sooner.
In autumn 2018  Mr Cs dog needed surgery for a uterine cyst and Mr C made  a claim for the 
treatment of about £1,650.
 
Red Sands  declined the claim  for several  reasons:
first, Red Sands  said the dogs vet notes showed shed had symptoms of a uterine 
growth since the end of July 2016 when the vet had advised tests and treatment but 
Mr C hadnt taken  any action. Red Sands  said as the first signs  and symptoms of the 
condition were  seen  over 365 days before the dogs claimed for treatment there was 
no cover  under the policy
second, as the policy  gave time limited cover  Red Sands also added two specific 
exclusions on the policy to apply retrospectively   an exclusion on cover on all claims 
with respect to cysts and warts  with effect  from 13 October 2016 (the policy  renewal 
date) and an exclusion on cover on all claims with respect to the urinary system with 
effect from 13 October 2016. Red Sands  also used the first of those exclusions to 
reject the claim
third, Red Sands  said as the operation also included spaying  the claim fell under the 
policy exclusion for elective, routine or preventative treatment, which included 
spaying.
Mr C complained to us. He said his dog needed an emergency operation  and he wants 
Red Sands  to pay. He sent information from his vet which  he said supported his claim.
Our investigator thought Red Sands had fairly declined the claim.
Mr C disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans  decision. He said Red Sands was trying  to get 
out of paying for an operation that was vital for the survival of his family pet. He didnt think 
the 2016 and 2018 incidences were linked.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  I have to decide whether Red Sands fairly and reasonably 
declined the claim  and I think it did for two of the three reasons it gave. Ill explain why.
I dont think Red Sands fairly declined the whole  claim on the basis  that during the operation  
the dog was spayed. The main purpose  of the surgery wasnt  spaying (which the policy  
Ref: DRN21953512doesnt cover).  The surgery  was to remove a very large cyst and I understand from the vet 
notes that the dog was spayed in the course  of the cysts removal. Red Sands couldnt fairly 
decline the cost of the whole operation  just because the dog had also been spayed.
However, I do think Red Sands fairly declined the claim  on the basis  that the symptoms of 
the condition first showed over 365 days before the treatment and that it could fairly add and 
apply the specific  exclusion.
The vet notes show that in August 2016 Mr C's dog had urinary  problems and had a mass in 
her vulva/vagina. The notes also show Mr Cs vet suggested further tests for treatment  but 
Mr C didnt proceed. On 19 October  2018 the dog went to the vet again  with urinary 
problems and other symptoms. A large  uterine  cyst was found and treatment took place.
Mr Cs vet says the 2016 and 2018  lump/cysts were separate cysts in different locations, 
although he appears to accept that they were hormonally related.
Red Sands vet says the two episodes are very  likely related. In summary she says the 
cysts are secondary to cystic endometrial hyperplasia. In 2016  this started during a season, 
consistent with this diagnosis, and was queried in the notes as being  hormonal.
The policy definition of condition  includes any manifestation  of an illness having the same 
diagnostic classification or resulting from the same disease process regardless of the 
number of incidents or areas of your pets body affected.
So the vets evidence is that the conditions in 2016  and 2018  were at the very least  related, 
even if they were not exactly in the same  part of the dogs body. I think Red Sands can 
reasonably conclude that Mr Cs dog first started showing symptoms of the condition  in 
2016.
We generally think its fair for an insurer to start the 12 months time limit from when the 
consumer could have  made a claim  on their policy. This is usually when a vet recommends 
investigation or treatment  for clinical signs displayed by the pet. If the vet recommends  some 
investigation or treatment  and the consumer decides  not to go ahead  we would usually say 
the 12 months period has still begun. Im satisfied that in these circumstances Red Sands 
can fairly say that the 12 months time limit for cover began in 2016. So when Mr Cs dog did 
have treatment in 2018 the 365 days/12  months limit had passed. Red Sands  could  
reasonably say there was no cover for the condition.
If Mr C had told Red Sands about the vet visits in 2016 at the time of the policy  renewal in 
2017 and/or  2018 Red Sands would have added the two specific  exclusions. The policy  
schedule Mr C was sent at renewal asked him whether hed ever taken his dog to the vet for 
anything other than routine vaccinations and said he needed to call Red Sands if the answer 
was yes and it reserved the right not to accept cover.
I think Mr C should have  reasonably told Red Sands about his dogs 2016 vet visits in 
answer to the question. In those  circumstances the relevant  law enables an insurer  to place 
an exclusion  to apply  retrospectively if the insurer would have added  the exclusion had it 
known the correct information.  Red Sands has applied the two specific  exclusions in line with 
its underwriting guidance. It could fairly  use the exclusion  on cover on all claims with respect 
to cysts and warts with effect from 13 October  2016 to decline the claim.
Ref: DRN21953513As the vets evidence  is the 2016  and 2018 cysts are related I dont need to make a finding  
on Mr Cs vet query about whether Red Sands would exclude claims for cysts completely  
unrelated to the 2016 cyst/lump. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2195351