K822xcomplaint
Mrs H has a motor insurance policy with Admiral Insurance Company Limited. She says it 
provided poor service  and made  the wrong  liability decision after she reported an accident. 
background 
Mrs B told Admiral  that a named driver on the policy  (Mr B) was driving her car when 
another vehicle  hit the back of it. Admirals  advisor  initially said the other driver would be 
held at fault. Later in the call, the advisor  noted that the facts  were disputed by the other  
driver. But Mrs H still got a non-fault letter from Admiral. She sent in repair  quotes,  but got no 
response. Mrs H called Admiral again  when she got a letter from it on 13 March 2018 that 
she found confusing. The letter said shed have to pay the policy excess to a garage.  Mrs H 
didnt think shed have  to do that, as shed been  told the other  driver was wholly  at fault.  
In response to her query, Admiral told Mrs H the collision was being  looked at by its liability 
team. It said the other driver claimed  Mr B partly entered his lane, then slowed down or 
braked hard. One advisor said the other driver  would still be held liable. Another advisor told 
Mrs H that Mr B was at fault,  as he was changing  lanes  when  the incident occurred.
Admiral investigated  Mrs Hs complaint about the poor communication  and lack of contact  
shed had from its advisors. She said she was also unhappy with the handling of the liability  
issue. Admiral  agreed that there were delays  in the claims-handling process. It noted that 
some advisors didnt contact Mrs H when they should have done. It apologised for the 
inconsistent advice advisors gave her. It agreed  the letter sent to Mrs H on 13 March 2018 
was confusing and wrong in parts. It apologised  and said feedback  had been given to 
advisors managers. And it offered Mrs H £75 for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs H remained  unhappy about  the liability decision.  She didnt think  the compensation 
Admiral had offered  was adequate. One of our investigators looked  into her concerns. She 
thought Admirals decision about  liability was reasonable. But she thought Admiral should 
pay Mrs H £150 in total for the poor service it had given her. Admiral agreed to the proposal.  
Mrs H said it wasnt enough, given the number of errors it had made.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.        
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It looks as though Mrs H may have  accepted  the investigators view about Admirals  decision 
on liability. But for the avoidance  of doubt, I agree that it was reasonable. 
The other driver says the collision happened  when Mr B was in the process  of moving  into 
his lane. The photo of the damage to his car shows the damage is mainly to its front corner, 
on the passenger  side. It seems Mr B was manoeuvring into a lane where the other driver 
was already established. So he had a duty to ensure  that he moved across only when  it was 
safe to do so. Mr B cant show that the other driver sped up as he started to enter the other 
lane, which  is what Mrs H told us. Theres no independent evidence.    
Ref: DRN27024372Mrs H told us she thought  that at the most, liability should have been  shared. But given the 
available evidence in this case,  I can see why Admiral didnt think  that was arguable.  And 
split liability wouldnt have  dealt with Mrs Hs major concerns anyway. She said she was 
worried about having a fault claim on her record, plus the prospect of higher premiums.  
Sharing liability for an accident means  therell be a fault claim on both policies.      
Admirals case  file shows that some of its advisors made errors in the messages they gave 
to Mrs H about liability. It seems that sometimes they gave their view without knowing all the 
facts. Admiral says it has taken steps to address the issues  highlighted by this complaint. 
That includes the poor advice, plus failing to contact Mrs H or to respond to her promptly. 
I can see why Mrs H became so frustrated with Admirals service. As she was given the 
wrong information from the start,  the liability decision came  as a shock  to her. She lost 
confidence in Admirals decision-making as well as its customer service.  I think  the effect of 
Admirals poor contact with her had a greater impact  than it might otherwise have done  
because of the initial errors. I think thats  understandable. But the major decision Admiral 
made in this case was about liability, and I dont think  it was wrong  to hold Mr B at fault. So 
the compensations only meant to make  up for Admirals poor service.  
Taking everything into account,  I think the proposed sum of £150 compensation is a 
reasonable way to settle this complaint.   
my final decision
My final decision is that Admiral Insurance Company Limited should settle this complaint  
as its already agreed to do  by paying  Mrs H £150  compensation in total.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2018.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2702437