K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2005. Mrs S says American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) mis-sold her 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs S says that she was told to take out PPI over the phone.  However, Mrs S actually 
applied for her card and PPI policy on the internet. Amex  has shown that when an 
application is made online, a customer wouldve been presented with a clear  choice in 
taking PPI. I havent seen anything  to suggest  that Amex did anything differently when 
Mrs S made her application, so I think Amex made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take 
out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this as it was a long time ago.
Amex didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs S got the information  she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Amex gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said - but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs S paid on her PPI  and whether Amex  treated 
her unfairly. 
Amex has also told us that the commission  for Mrs Ss PPI was less than half of what  she 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Amex  has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Ss commission  was less than half the cost of 
the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed  to tell her about the commission  so I 
dont think Amex treated  her unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mrs S back any of 
the commission she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN28083902Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2808390