K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled  his motor insurance claim.
background 
The named  driver on Mr As policy was driving  at the time of the incident and was the person
who made the majority of the contact with Aviva. For ease of reading, I will refer to Mr A
throughout my decision as hes the policyholder.
Mr A held a motor insurance  policy with Aviva. The named driver on his policy  was involved
in an accident  with a third partys car. Mr As named driver was preparing  to join a main
carriageway from a slip road but decided to stay on the slip road before completing  the
manoeuvre. The third partys car then collided with the rear of Mr As car. Mr As named
driver didnt report the incident to Aviva and neither did Mr A. Instead Mr A instructed his
own solicitors  to handle  the matter  for him as he felt he wasnt at fault for the incident.
Aviva received a claim from the third-partys insurer so tried to contact Mr A, asking him to
respond about the allegations. Mr A didnt  respond to Avivas  requests, so it settled the
claim, made by the third partys insurer. Aviva said it settled the claim on a without prejudice
basis.
Mr A complained to Aviva that it had settled the third-partys claim without his knowledge,
and his no claims discount (NCD) had been unfairly  reduced. Mr A provided Aviva with
details of a witness  and their account  of the accident, which he said showed he wasnt liable
for the accident.
In Avivas final response letter, it said that Mr A hadnt responded to its letters  asking for his
comments about the claim. Aviva said it had settled the third-partys claim to keep costs 
down
and closed the matter as it hadnt  heard from Mr A. Aviva also said Mr As solicitor had
closed its file, and the third-partys  insurer had closed its file having  settled  Mr As total loss
costs with his solicitor.
Aviva said Mr A hadnt told it about  the accident,  which his policy  terms required him to do.
And because of that it hadnt been  aware  of the action hed taken elsewhere. It said that it
believed the circumstances of the accident  could result in a split liability, with both parties
held at fault. Aviva didnt  uphold Mr As complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 May 2020 where I said:
Like most policies we see the terms and conditions of Mr As policy  say he needs to tell
Aviva when theres been an incident. They also give Aviva the right to take over, defend  or
settle a claim as it sees fit. This might mean Aviva makes a decision Mr A disagrees with,
but the policy allows it. Ive considered whether Avivas done so fairly and reasonably.
Mr A didnt tell Aviva  hed had an accident, and he didnt reply  to its letters  asking him to
contact them. So, Aviva settled the claim on his behalf by paying  the third-partys costs, as
the policy allows it to do. Im satisfied this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I
say this because  Mr A hadnt reported  the accident  or responded to Avivas letters asking
him to get in contact. So, Aviva had no choice  but to settle the claim.
Ref: DRN20038102When Mr A contacted Aviva, it had already settled the third-party insurers claim.  But Aviva
did tell him it could possibly re-open the claim if he gave it some  evidence that potentially
cleared his liability for the accident. Aviva reviewed the information from the third party as
well as what Mr A sent and said it believes the claim  would be settled as split liability.  This is
because there is communication between Mr A and the third party  that says Mr As named
driver went to move onto the main carriageway and then pulled back onto the slip road as it
wasnt safe to enter the main carriageway. Im satisfied Aviva acted fairly  when  it gave Mr A
the option to provide evidence to help determine  liability for the accident. Now that Aviva has
reviewed it, Im also persuaded its acted fairly and reasonably when deciding Mr A would
likely to be held partly responsible.
Aviva though hasnt  settled the claim on a without  prejudice basis.  Mr A says this has
prevented him or Aviva taken further action against the third party. Hes said he shouldnt be
held at fault for the accident and his NCD shouldnt be reduced  either.  I can understand     
Mr
As frustration at this. Ive also seen that Aviva  told Mr A that the claim had been  recorded as
non-fault, which  is also incorrect. Aviva has now updated its records  to record this claim as
fault, as it believes Mr A would be held partly  responsible. Its disappointing to see these
errors have  been  made, Ive therefore  looked to see the impact these have had on Mr A.
Mr As said he or Aviva are unable to take further action because without prejudice wasnt
written on the settlement  sent to the third party. Im not persuaded this is the reason Aviva
hasnt taken further action on Mr As behalf. I say this because Aviva hasnt taken further
action as Mr A hasnt claimed  on his policy. Aviva also believe the claim would be split
liability and for these reasons its not intending to do anymore. It would also be down to a
court to decide  whether  Mr A can take legal  action against the third-party driver. As Mr A
hasnt shown that a court has refused his claim, because Aviva didnt settle the claim on a
without prejudice  basis, Im not satisfied this error has prevented him taking legal action if he
wishes.
In regard to telling Mr A his claim was recorded  as non-fault and then changing  it to fault
when it noticed  the error.  I do think this error has caused him additional  unnecessary
distress and inconvenience. I say that because its misled Mr A that his claim was being
recorded as non-fault when it wasnt. Aviva has already agreed to pay Mr A £150 for the
error of not saying  the settlement was on a without prejudice basis. Im satisfied this amount
is enough to compensate him for both errors. Im therefore not going to instruct Aviva to do
anymore.
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr A responded to say that the named 
driver called  following  Avivas letter and was told that Aviva  would note hed called,  and that 
Mr A didnt need to contact them. Mr A also reiterated that Aviva only changed its position to 
say he would be held at fault after it noticed the error of not writing without prejudice  on the 
settlement. And that Aviva cant claim back what its paid due to this. Mr A also said that 
Aviva changing  the claim from non-fault to fault  was another  example  of Avivas failures. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Im not persuaded to depart from my 
provisional findings, and Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN20038103I can see from the contact notes that Mr As named driver did respond to Aviva  about the 
claim. The contact notes and Mr A both say that Aviva said they couldnt speak with the 
named driver about the claim. Mr A said that Aviva said theyd note the named driver had 
called and that Mr A didnt  need  to contact  them.  The contact notes say that Mr As named  
driver had called but they would still like to speak  with Mr A. As there was a third party  claim 
on the policy, I think its more likely  Aviva  would still want  to speak with Mr A, especially as 
theyd said they couldnt speak with the named driver. And as Mr A didnt respond to Avivas  
requests for contact, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional findings on this. 
Mr A also said Aviva  only changed its position  about his claim after noticing its error of not 
settling the claim on a without prejudice  basis. I can understand why Mr A my think this is the 
case, but I can see Aviva based its decision not to pursue his claim further  because  of the 
texts between Mr As named driver  and the third-party driver.  In these texts Mr As named 
driver said, I went out and pulled back in the lane bcoz  of the car coming from the side, 
because of this Aviva think its likely the third-party  insurer would be able to defend  the 
claim. Ive seen copies  of these texts and Im satisfied  this is why Aviva  hasnt  pursued  the 
claim any further.
Mr A feels  Aviva  has stopped him pursuing legal proceedings against the third party by not 
settling on a without  prejudice basis. As I explained  in my provisional findings it would be for 
a court  to decide whether  Mr A can take further  action. And as Mr A hasnt provided a court  
or legal opinion that shows hes unable  to take further action,  Im not persuaded to change  
my opinion.
I can understand Mr As frustration at Avivas error in telling him the claim was settled  on a 
non-fault basis. When I issued my provisional decision, I took this into account and Im 
satisfied £150  is fair and reasonable compensation for all the errors Aviva  has made in 
handling this claim.  Its also not our role to punish a business so I wont be asking Aviva to 
do any more than I said in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision, I partially uphold  this 
complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited  to pay Mr A £150 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2003810