K821x#15complaint
Mr I complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance, wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality. Hes being helped  with his complaint by his daughter.
background 
A used  car was supplied to Mr I under a hire purchase agreement with Oodle Car Finance 
that he electronically signed in March 2018. The car was about nine years old and its 
mileage was about 74,800 miles.  Mr I says that the car switched off suddenly  on multiple 
occasions and had other issues.  And he says that he found out that it was an accidental 
repair car. He complained  to the dealer and said that he wanted to reject the car within 14 
days of it being  supplied to him. But it said that the car has a diesel engine and that petrol  
had been put in the cars tank. 
Mr I complained to Oodle Car Finance  in April 2018  - but he wasnt  satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service. Oodle  Car Finance  said that it would arrange for the 
car to be inspected by an independent expert.  But it then said that instead  of paying for the 
car to be inspected it would arrange  for the fuel contamination to be dealt with. 
The dealer  says that it drained the petrol  from the car, put diesel in it, charged  the battery 
and the car started right away.  But it says that the cars making a loud knocking noise and 
that it suspects that a new engine is required as a result of the car being used with the wrong 
fuel  and that it looks like Mr I has driven for some time with the wrong fuel in the car. 
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She wasnt convinced  
that there  was ever fuel contamination  and she was satisfied that the car that was supplied 
to Mr I under the hire purchase  agreement wasnt fit for purpose  and wasnt  free from faults.  
So she recommended  that Oodle Car Finance should: end the agreement  and collect the car 
from the dealer;  settle any disputes  about  storage costs with the dealer; refund the deposit of 
£200 that Mr I paid for the car (with  interest);  return all monthly repayments Mr I made  from 
May 2018 as he hadnt had use of the car since April 2018; pay Mr I £150  for the distress  
and inconvenience  this matter has caused  him; and remove  any adverse information from 
Mr Is credit file.
Oodle Car Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It has 
provided a detailed response to the adjudicators recommendations from the dealer. The 
dealer says, in summary, that:
the car was fault free at the point of sale, as confirmed by its previous experience of 
the car, its MOT history and a pre-delivery inspection;
Mr I took delivery of the car and during  the first week has, presumably by accident, 
put petrol in the car and it then started smoking heavily and then died very quickly;
theres nothing that suggests there  was any fault with the car when it was supplied to 
Mr I;
when the car was returned to it, it wouldnt start and it was identified  that there was 
petrol in the fuel tank;
the car started immediately when the contaminated fuel was replaced with diesel - no 
other work had been done to the car to take it from an inoperative state to starting 
and running, which  confirms that contaminated fuel was the issue; and
Ref: DRN22831212the car has been run for too long on contaminated fuel, so the damage is terminal  
and the car needs a new engine  but thats not its fault and neither it nor Oodle Car 
Finance can be held accountable for user error.
Mr I has provided  a manufacturers recall notice  that hes received  about the car.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr I 
and to Oodle Car Finance on 26 June 2019.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
The car that was supplied to Mr I in March 2018 was about  nine years old. It passed  
an MOT test in March  2018 when its mileage  was recorded as being  74,769  miles. 
Mr I says that there were  issues  with the car within 14 days,  including  that the car 
switched off suddenly  on multiple occasions, so he wanted to reject it. And he says 
that he found out that it was an accidental repair car.
Hes provided videos  of the car shaking that were recorded when the cars mileage 
was 74,980, 75,040,  75,602  and 75,732  miles and hes provided a handwritten  
invoice from a garage which says that the car has been checked, no fault with the 
timing belt had been found  and further investigation  there is a engine problem - but 
its not clear whether that means  that there was an engine problem or that further 
investigation was required to see if there  was an engine problem. Mr I says that he 
took the car to three different garages and none of them mentioned fuel 
contamination as being the issue. And he says that he knows the cars fuel type and 
he fuelled it accordingly.
But the dealer says that the car was fault free when it was supplied  to Mr I and it had 
passed an MOT test that month. And it says that there was petrol in the cars tank 
when the car was returned to it and that the car started immediately when the 
contaminated fuel was replaced with diesel.
Oodle Car Finance booked for the car to be inspected in February 2019 but before 
the inspection  took place  it was told that the inspector couldnt inspect the fuel 
contamination and that a specialist would need to do that. Oodle Car Finance said 
that it was willing to arrange  a specialist inspection but having considered the costs  
of that it suggested  that the dealer quote  for the cost of repairing the issues with the 
car and subject to the cost of repair quoted it would be happy  to have it repaired. Mr I 
accepted that offer.
But when the dealer  drained the petrol  from the car, put diesel  in it, charged the 
battery and started  the car it says that it discovered  that an engine replacement  was 
required. It has provided evidence to show that there was petrol in the car  but 
theres no independent evidence to show that there was petrol in the car, the cars 
engine needs  to be replaced or that the damage  to the engine has been caused by 
the car being  fuelled with petrol.
But Mr I hasnt been able to provide any evidence to show that there was a fault with 
the car when  it was supplied to him. The car had recently  passed  an MOT test, and 
the dealer says that it was inspected  before  it was supplied  to Mr I. Mr I says that the 
issues started about 14 days after the car was supplied to him. Im not persuaded 
that its likely  that he wouldve  been  able to use the car for 14 days  and that it would 
Ref: DRN22831213then suddenly develop  the faults about  which hes complained unless something had 
happened to the car at that time to cause those faults. 
The dealer  says that there was petrol in the cars  fuel tank  and I consider that the 
issues that Mr I has had with the car are consistent with the wrong fuel being  used in 
the car. And I consider  it to be more likely than not that the dealer was able to restart 
the car when  the petrol was drained from the cars  fuel tank and replaced with diesel.  
And the damage  to the engine that the dealer has described is consistent  with the car 
having been driven with the wrong fuel in the tank.
So I consider it to be more likely than not the issues that Mr I has experienced with 
the car have  been caused by the wrong fuel being putting into the car. And Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car was faulty  when it was 
supplied to Mr I  or that it wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time. 
I sympathise with Mr I for the damage thats been caused to the cars engine. But Im 
not persuaded that the dealer or Oodle Car Finance is responsible  for that damage. 
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Oodle Car Finance to repair the car, to allow  Mr I to reject the car, or to take 
any other action in response  to his complaint.
So subject to any further representations by Mr I or Oodle Car Finance,  my provisional  
decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint.
Oodle Car Finance has accepted my provisional  decision but neither Mr I nor his 
representative has responded  to it (other than to say that Mr I is ready to collect  the car from 
the dealer).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2283121