K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that she was mis-sold a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
Although the policy was sold by another business, Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
(FICL) has accepted responsibility for the sale and this complaint.
So Ive referred  to FICL during this decision.
background
Miss B opened a store card in December 1998.  In March 1999  a PPI policy was added  to the 
account during  a telephone call. 
The PPI wouldve cost Miss B no more  than £1 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance.    
It wouldve  paid a monthly benefit  of 15% of the outstanding balance if Miss B was unable  to 
work due to ill-health,  an accident or if she lost her job. This would continue until either    
Miss B returned to work or the balance was cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Miss Bs complaint  should be upheld.
Miss B didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain  why.
FICL had to make it clear to Miss B that the PPI was optional. Miss B applied for the store 
card by filling in a leaflet  given  to her in a store. 
FICL has shown us a copy of the store card application form. I can see Miss B did not opt to 
add PPI at the time.
The PPI was added three months later after the account was opened. Records show this 
happened following  a telephone conversation between FICL and Miss B. 
As the policy was added after the account was opened I think  it is likely  Miss B would  be 
aware at the time she didnt have to take the PPI.
Taking everything into account  I think its likely  Miss B chose to take the PPI and has 
forgotten this, bearing in mind  the time thats  passed.
   
I dont think FICL advised Miss B to take the policy out. So it didnt have to take steps to 
ensure the policy  was suitable for her. But FICL did have to give Miss B clear information so 
that she could  make a choice about whether or not to take the policy  out.
Ref: DRN21807262After so many years  its not possible for me to know if FICL  gave  Miss B all the information  it 
shouldve about  the policy and its costs.  
Ive thought about whether clear  information wouldve put Miss B off taking the policy  out.         
I dont think it wouldve. I say this because:
Miss B was eligible for the PPI based on her circumstances at the time of the sale.  
So shed  have  been able to make  a claim if she needed to.
If Miss B couldnt work due to ill-health the policy wouldve paid out 15% of her 
outstanding balance every month until the balance had been paid off or she returned  
to work. And it wouldve  paid the same benefit  if Miss B lost her job. 
Although Miss Bs employer wouldve paid her full pay for some time, the PPI policy 
could have paid a monthly benefit in addition to her sick pay. And likely for longer 
than her employer would pay her full pay if she was unwell  for a prolonged period.
 
The policy had some exclusions  and restrictive terms. But Miss B wasnt  affected by 
these. For instance Miss B has told us she didnt have any medical conditions at the 
time of the sale which the policy wouldnt have covered.
Miss B has told us she didnt have  any savings she could have used to make the 
repayments.
So, taking everything  into account I think its likely Miss B was aware the PPI was optional 
and chose to add it to her account. And I think that even if Miss B had been given clear 
information about the policy shed  still have gone ahead and bought it.
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint against  Financial Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2180726