K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Premium Credit  Limited  has dealt with his direct debit instructions 
incorrectly.
background
Mr O electronically  signed  a credit agreement  with Premium Credit in January  2019 to pay 
for an insurance policy. A direct debit was set up for his bank to make the monthly payment 
for the policy. He says that he accidentally cancelled the direct debit so the first payment in 
February 2019 wasnt paid. He says that he reinstated the direct debit but the policy was 
cancelled.  
He complained to Premium Credit. It said in March 2019 that it was unable  to agree that it 
had provided Mr O with the incorrect information  regarding his direct  debit and that it had 
acted in good faith on the instruction received from his bank. It said that it had provided him 
with sufficient notice  of his direct  debit cancellation and documentation confirming the 
consequences if the actions required were not followed. Mr O wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Mr O reinstated the direct  debit as requested and paid the £196.24 before the due date in 
February 2019. So she recommended that Premium Credit should: refund or clear  any 
payments due under the credit agreement from that due date in February 2019; ensure that 
only one default  fee (for the late payment in February 2019) has been  applied to the account 
balance; remove any adverse credit reference information recorded  for the account (apart  
from that for the late payment  in February  2019); and provide a letter  that Mr O can present 
to his insurance company which confirms that the credit agreement was cancelled through  
no fault of his own. 
Premium Credit has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says,  in 
summary, that:
it received notification from Mr Os bank that his direct debit had been cancelled;
it attempted to collect the February 2019 payment of £168.74;
it then received a notification that Mr O had attempted to reset  the direct debit online;
it then received an instruction from his bank to advise that the payment attempted  
had been returned  unpaid due to the direct  debit being cancelled;
that was the most up to date information that it had received from Mr Os bank so the 
direct debit  was not reset;
it wrote  to Mr O twice  advising  him that he needed to make  a payment and reset his 
direct debit  before the due date that month;
Mr O made the payment but didnt reset his direct debit so the agreement and policy 
were cancelled;
it doesnt agree that its made  an error and acted  in good faith on the information 
provided by Mr Os bank;
its not in a position to contact Mr Os insurance company to advise it that the credit 
agreement cancelled  due to no fault of Mr O; and
as the February  2019 payment was the first payment on Mr Os credit  agreement,  no 
missed payments have  been  reported by it for the agreement. 
Ref: DRN28678012Mr O says that hes been hounded for months  and months by debt collection agencies  
saying he owes them money and he just wants it to stop.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O says that he accidentally cancelled his direct debit which  caused a payment to be 
missed but that he then reinstated  the direct  debit when he became aware that hed 
cancelled it. Hes provided evidence  from his bank to show that the direct debit was set up 
when he entered  into the credit agreement, that it was cancelled  at the end of that month,  
was then reinstated seven days later and was still active on the account  in March 2019.
Premium Credit says that it received notification that Mr O has reset  his direct debit  but 
that it then received notification that the payment had been returned unpaid because  the 
direct debit had been  cancelled  so it didnt reset his direct debit. 
I can understand why it didnt reinstate  his direct debit given the sequence of events - but 
Mr O had reinstated his direct debit and that was notified to Premium Credit.  It didnt act on 
that notification  because of other information that it had received.  But I consider that it should 
have reinstated  his direct debit at that time.
It then wrote two letters to Mr O in which it said that he needed to make a payment and set 
up a new direct debit by the due date. He made the payment  and hed reinstated  his direct 
debit so I dont  consider  that there was any reason for him to expect that the direct debit 
wouldnt be collected.
Other than accidentally cancelling  his direct debit, Im not persuaded that Mr O has acted 
incorrectly. Whilst it may not have intended to do so, I consider that Premium Credit  did act 
incorrectly when it didnt  reset Mr Os direct debit.  That has caused him distress  and 
inconvenience. 
Mr Os insurance  policy  was cancelled  by the insurance company. The adjudicator explained 
to him that she was only able to consider the actions  of Premium Credit  so she wouldnt be 
commenting on the cancellation  of the policy.
Mr O made  one payment  of £196.24  to Premium Credit and his agreement was then 
cancelled and his account was closed.  It says that no missed payments were  reported on his 
credit file and that no other fees or charges were applied to his account. Mr O says that hes 
been hounded by debt collection  agencies and he just wants  that to stop.  
I dont consider that it would now be appropriate  for me to require Premium Credit  to write a 
letter to Mr Os insurance company but I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to 
ensure that no adverse information  about the credit agreement is recorded  on his credit file 
and that no further  debt collection activity  about  the account is undertaken.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint and I order Premium Credit  
Limited to ensure that no adverse information about the credit agreement is recorded  on his 
credit file and that no further debt collection activity about the account is undertaken.
Ref: DRN28678013Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2867801