K821x#15complaint
Ms F says Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about one payday  loan Cashfloat provided to Ms F in November 2016.   
The loan was for £500 to be repaid over four months in instalments of around £199. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Fs complaint and thought  the loan shouldnt have been  given. 
Cashfloat didnt  reply to the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms F 
could repay  the loan in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Ms F could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN22726762Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Fs complaint.
Cashfloat said it asked  Ms F for her monthly  income and expenditure. Ms F said she earned 
£2,400 and her monthly outgoings  were  £1,455.  Cashfloat also carried out credit  checks 
which indicated that Ms F had two defaults in the past twelve  months. I think this should 
have prompted  Cashfloat to ask further questions about Ms Fs finances, specifically about  
her other short term borrowing.  
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for the loan would most likely have 
shown that:
Ms F was in financial  difficulties at the time and was struggling to repay her other 
financial commitments. 
Ms F had outstanding  short  term loans totally £714 due at the time she asked  for the 
loan, and these  wouldnt leave  her with sufficient  money to sustainably  repay  her 
loan from Cashfloat. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  the loan and Cashfloat should put things right.
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms F paid on her loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about the loan from Ms Fs credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat  to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im upholding Ms Fs complaint.  
Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) should pay Ms F compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2272676