K820x#14complaint
Mrs F, the personal representative of Mrs Ds estate, complains Gwynfor Jones & Co (GJ) 
gave her incorrect information about  changing the name on the household insurance 
following Mrs Ds death. She says this led to delays in paying a claim. The claim settlement 
offer made was too low and GJ mistreated Mrs Fs son when he raised  this at their offices. 
background
Mrs D had household  insurance through GJ. Mrs D died in September  2017. In October the 
property suffered storm damage and Mr F wanted to make a claim on, his grandmother  Mrs 
Ds household  insurance policy.
Both Mr F and Mrs F have  said they contacted GJ in September  following Mrs Ds death to 
change the name on the insurance  policy. They say they were told this was not necessary. 
Mr F was unhappy with this response  as he says their solicitor advised  them  the policy 
needed to be changed. GJ say they were not able to do this as the grant of probate  hadnt  
been obtained. 
Following storm  damage in October, Mr F wanted to claim for the damage  to the roof and 
garage door on the household insurance  policy and contacted GJ. 
GJ say they managed to get the insurance companys agreement to deal with the claim 
despite Mrs Ds death and Mr F not owning  the property. The insurance  company appointed 
loss adjusters to examine the damage to the roof and garage  door.
In order to progress  the claim, the insurance company agreed to forward a settlement 
cheque payable to GJ who would forward the amount to Mr F. GJ say the cheque arrived at 
their offices  at the end of January.
Mr F went to the GJ offices at the end of January to pick up the settlement cheque. GJ were 
not able to give Mr F the settlement  cheque at that visit as the funds had not cleared. In any 
event, Mr F was not happy  with the amount offered and he refused to accept it. There  was a 
disagreement between  the GJ representative  and Mr F. Both say the other person  was rude 
and aggressive. As Mr F was unhappy with the settlement offer GJ then contacted the 
insurance company  to say Mr F was disputing the claim amount.
Mr F says he complained to GJ twice  but received no reply. GJ say they responded to Mr Fs 
complaint, but as the complaint was about  the amount  to be paid under the claim GJ passed 
the complaint  to the insurers.
Mr F complained to our service about  the incorrect information, the amount offered to settle 
the claim and the service  provided by GJ. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said GJ had cooperated  with the insurance  company to get the claim settled,  this was 
despite there being no authority for either of them to deal with Mrs F or her son. 
Mr F disagreed with the investigator and the matter has come to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN29974142Mr F has confirmed he only wanted to complain against GJ, which  means I can only 
consider issues GJ are responsible for. I cant consider anything  which  is the responsibility of 
the insurers. Because of this I wont consider any issues relating to the claim assessment 
and the actual settlement amount. I understand the claim has now been  settled  but Mr F is 
aware he can bring a complaint against the insurers about the claim should  he wish to.
incorrect information 
Mr F says both he and his mother contacted GJ to let them know  Mrs D had passed away  
and they wanted to change the name on the policy. Mr F was told he didnt need to do this 
and a claim would be considered even if the policy was in Mrs Ds name.  I have seen 
information provided by GJ which says it told Mr F it couldnt change the name. GJ have said 
neither it nor the insurance company could change the name on the policy without authority. 
As the evidence of what Mr F was told is contradictory, it is not clear  whether GJ told Mr F 
he didnt need  to or it couldnt change the name  on the policy.  In any event, Mr F was 
disappointed as he had been  advised  by his solicitor  to have the name  changed on the 
policy,
As the evidence is contradictory I cannot say what information Mr F was actually given. Mr F 
thinks he was given   incorrect information by GJ and this led to delays  in paying the claim. 
GJ couldnt change  the policy as neither the policyholder nor the executor could give it 
authority to do so. GJ couldnt take instructions from Mr F to change  the policy because at 
the time neither Mrs F nor Mr F were executors of the estate. The executor was a solicitors 
firm that was no longer  trading so the estate was without a representative. 
In the circumstances I think Mr F was asking  GJ to do something it wasnt  able to carry out, 
bearing in mind Mr F wasnt an executor and didnt own the property  either. So I can 
understand why GJ didnt  change the name on the policy. Whether Mr F was told he couldnt  
change the policy or he didnt  need  to change the policy,  I think  it had no material  effect on 
how the claim was dealt with by the insurance company or GJ. So I dont think it would have 
made a difference if GJ had acted differently. 
mistreatment of Mr F by GJ 
Our investigator has explored in his view what happened when the GJ representative and Mr 
F met in the offices  in January. There was a falling out between  the parties and it isnt 
possible for me to decide what happened and who said what to whom. In any event as the 
investigator has mentioned in his view, Mr F is a representative and he is not able to receive 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience he may have been caused as a result of 
the interaction in the GJ offices in January.
Ref: DRN29974143It is unfortunate Mr F didnt  think  GJ was helpful.  But I have considered  all the available  
evidence and I think GJ went  out of its way to help the estate to make a claim on the policy  
by being the go between  with the insurance  company for the settlement amount. So I dont 
think GJ did anything wrong.
Considering all the evidence before me I think GJ acted  reasonably  and I will not be asking it 
to do anything else.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint.
I make  no award against Gwynfor  Jones  & Co.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 October 2019.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2997414