K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Mrs W says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Capital One had to make  it clear to Mrs W that she had a choice about 
it. But Mrs W says it was added without her knowledge or consent.
Capital One has sent us a copy of Mrs Ws application  form for the credit  card.  This included 
a question on PPI with yes and no boxes  to be ticked  to show  whether  she wanted to take 
it out. And the yes box has been  ticked.
Based on this, I think Capital One did make it clear to Mrs W that she had a choice about  the 
PPI. And that Mrs W chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Capital One gave  Mrs W any personalised advice about 
the PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to her. This means Capital  One it didnt 
have to check if the PPI was right for Mrs W. But it did have to make  sure she got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And the 
policy couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve received full sick pay. So it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong.
Mrs W has said she already had a similar policy to cover her, and was receiving government 
benefits, so she didnt need  this PPI. But her existing policy  was to cover the payments on 
her mortgage, not this credit card. And Im not satisfied the government  benefits Mrs W has 
mentioned would be enough to replace  her income  or meet all her outgoings  if she wasnt 
earning. So I still think the policy would have been  useful to her. It also looks  like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about it would have put Mrs W off taking it 
out.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Mrs W, that was unfair.
Ref: DRN27736152To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2773615