K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  Tesco  Personal  Finance  PLC is holding  her liable for a loan which she did 
not apply for.
background
Whilst abroad in September 2018,  three loans were  applied  for in Miss Ps name.  All three 
were paid into her current account with another bank   who I will call S.  Following  the 
paying in of the loans,  a number of transactions  were then carried  out using her card and 
PIN for the account  with S.
When Miss P first contacted S, she told it she had lost her card a few days earlier.  She 
couldnt explain how her PIN had been  compromised and was able to be used by a 
fraudster.
The chronology of the loans was as follows:
-a telephone application  with S and the subsequent paying in of a loan of £20,000
-an online  application with B and then the paying  in of £24,000
-an online  application with Tesco  and then the paying in of £24,000.
Miss P contacted Tesco  and advised  that she had not applied  for the loan.   Neither had she 
carried out the subsequent transaction on the account with S.  But Tesco did not uphold her 
complaint.  It  told her that as the loan funds had been paid into her genuine account it was 
holding her liable for the money.   It did, however, offer £100  for the delay  in its service.
When she complained  to S, it decided Miss P had been the victim of an impersonation fraud 
where the loan was concerned so it debited her account with the funds, and closed  the loan 
account down.   However,  S continued to hold her liable for the transactions   a factor which  
is relevant in considering this complaint.
Our investigator did not think Tesco had done anything wrong in its decision  so Miss P 
asked that an ombudsman make a final decision in her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen nothing  to suggest Tesco has been unfair or unreasonable  in holding Miss P 
liable for this loan.
The online application used Miss Ps genuine details  other than her email  address and 
phone number.  The person making  the application knew details about Miss P such as her 
date of birth, address,  marital status and employers details.  None of these would  be 
discovered by the loss/theft of the debit  card with S so I have to assume  the information was 
obtained from elsewhere. Also, three  questions  were asked from her credit  file  and two of 
the three questions were  answered correctly.
Ref: DRN21110562Also, this is where  the complaint with S becomes relevant.  Thats because S is holding  Miss 
P responsible for the disputed transactions on her account  the transactions  which 
effectively used up the funds from all three loans.  I bear that in mind  when deciding whether 
I think Tesco has been unfair in holding Miss P liable. And I also remind  myself that there 
were a number of successful logins to Miss Ps online banking  with S during the same time  
so I think Miss P would have seen the fluctuation in her balance.  I know Miss P says this 
wasnt her  but again, its difficult to conclude Tesco has been unfair in relying on this 
evidence when there is no other explanation  for her online banking being  compromised.
Because the evidence suggests Miss P authorised the payments from her account with S, I 
can see why Tesco has concluded  she should be held liable for the loan.
In the circumstances, I wont be asking it does anymore here.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2111056