K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Loans 2 Go Limited was irresponsible to lend to him and that its 
customer service  was poor.
background
Mr H took out a loan with Loans 2 Go on 29 March  2018. He borrowed £300 and was due to 
repay £67.97 monthly for 18 months.
Mr H says that Loans 2 Go should never have lent to him as the repayments were 
unaffordable. He says that when  he fell behind with payments  he was aggressively  pursued,  
and Loans 2 Go revealed  its company name  on the outside of its letters  causing  emotional 
pressure at home. Mr H adds that its customer service was poor and it did not respond 
sympathetically when  it was told about  his financial hardship. He says Loans 2 Go also 
collected money from a Continuous Payment Authority (CPA) without his consent.
With regard to the affordability of the loan,  Loans  2 Go says it asked  Mr H about his income  
and expenditure  and carried  out a credit  check.  It says its checks showed  the repayments  
were affordable to Mr H.
Loans 2 Go says Mr H asked to withdraw from the loan on 5 April 2018. It says it 
acknowledged the email and explained there  would  be a daily interest charge during the 
withdrawal period making the settlement sum £313.46 on 6 April 2018.  Loans 2 Go says 
Mr H said he would  make  contact again when he was in a position to pay, but that he was 
only willing  to pay £300 on 25 April 2018  as full and final settlement. Loans 2 Go did not 
accept this offer, but offered a settlement amount of £345.42, with £300 to be paid by 25 
April 2018 and an option to set up an arrangement for the remainder. It says Mr H advised  
he could not pay this amount, so he was offered a later settlement date of 2 May 2018 for 
the same  amount. It offered a further  settlement sum of £450.95 to be paid by 27 July 2018 
which Mr H agreed to pay, but no payment  was received. Mr H subsequently offered to pay 
£400 on 24 August  2018 which Loans  2 Go did not accept, but it quoted a new settlement 
figure of £624.68  if the loan was paid by 27 September 2018. Mr H said he would pay this, 
but Loans 2 Go sold the debt to a third party. No payment was received from Mr H and he 
then offered a £400 settlement in October  2018 and was advised  to contact the debt 
collection agency.
Loans 2 Go acknowledged  its letters showed the company name but said the envelopes  
showed no evidence  Mr H actually  had a loan, or that he was struggling with payments. With 
regard to Mr Hs CPA,  it says the arrangement was authorised as part of the loan agreement 
and when the settlement was not received  in April, the normal contractual payment for May 
was collected  on its due date. Loans 2 Go confirmed this had now been cancelled.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Loans 2 Go carried out proportionate checks and that there  was nothing to indicate  the loan 
Ref: DRN29606902repayments were unsustainable. She also did not find that Loans 2 Go had treated  Mr H 
unfairly in any other way.
Mr H responded to say, in summary, that identifying the nature of a debt on the outside of a 
mail is a breach of his personal data. He adds that Loans  2 Go also failed to meet its 
obligation to respond with compassion to those  who are struggling financially.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  Loans  2 Go lent to Mr H. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook  (CONC),  this meant  that Loans 2 Go needed  to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford  to meet  its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner  over the lifetime of the agreement.
At the time of the lending CONC 5.3.1G stated that:
1.In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more  than assessing  the customer's ability  to repay  the 
credit.
2.The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability  to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner  was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while  meeting  other  reasonable commitments;  without having  to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without  having to realise security or assets  (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing  problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document  entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed  checks
the lower a persons income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN29606903the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of credit  is likely 
to be greater and the borrowers required to make payments for an extended  period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income  and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Hs case, I have  considered the 
following questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete  reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Hs loan applications to satisfy itself that he would  be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown? 
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Loan Affordability
When Mr H applied for his loan from Loans  2 Go, it asked about his income and expenditure 
and carried out a credit check. Loans 2 Go also says it verified his work phone number.
The checks  showed:
The monthly repayments were less than 3% of Mr Hs declared  income;
Mr Hs credit record did not indicate he was in financial  difficulties:
oThere was no evidence of any defaults or county court judgements;
oThere were  twelve  active accounts, including two short-term loans, all of 
which were up-to-date with their repayments;
oAlthough Mr H had multiple credit  cards, he was generally within  the credit 
limit for those and his overdrafts;
oMr Hs declared  credit  expenditure was in line with the information on his file;
oThere had been two credit searches in the previous month   presumably for 
the two recent short-term loans.
Loans 2 Go calculated Mr Hs disposable income  to be around  £1,000  per month  and I cant 
see there was anything in the information  it collected  that indicated  it should have carried  out 
further checks. Im satisfied Loans  2 Go would have found the repayments were  affordable  
to Mr H so I cant  conclude  it made an unfair lending decision.
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ref: DRN29606904Ive considered what Mr H says about  Loans 2 Gos failure to treat him sympathetically when 
it was told about  his difficulties, but I find it did enough in the circumstances because:
The day after Mr H told Loans 2 Go he was struggling financially, it agreed he could 
repay the £300 principal on 25 April 2018 and agree a repayment  plan for the £45.42 
interest, with further interest charges frozen  whilst  the plan was in place;
Loans 2 Go then agreed to accept the same settlement  figure until 2 May 2018;
It did not agree for this figure to be further retained until 25 May 2018, but I dont  find 
that was unreasonable given Mr H had still not made  any payments towards the loan;
When Mr H said he would pay the settlement figure on 25 July 2018,  Loans 2 Go 
offered him a reduced settlement figure of £450.95 as a goodwill  gesture;
No payment was made in July, and I dont find Loans 2 Go acted  unfairly when it 
refused to accept  Mr Hs offer of £400 in August 2018;
Mr H then said hed settle  the loan on 27 September, but no payment was received.
So I dont  find Loans 2 Go acted unfairly  when it was told Mr H was struggling  financially.
Finally, I dont find it was unreasonable for Loans 2 Go to also contact Mr H by letter,  but, 
with regard to the alleged  data breach  as a result of those letters,  a complaint of that nature 
would need to be referred to the Information Commissioners Office.
In summary,  I cant conclude Loans  2 Go made an unfair lending  decision when it approved  
the loan and I dont find it acted unfairly  or unreasonably in any other  way.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2021.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2960690