K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that AXA Insurance  UK Plc declined  to cover a claim for water 
damage that they made on their caravan  insurance  policy in 2018.  Mr and Mrs H are 
represented by Mr S.
background
In 2017 Mr and Mrs H reported ingress  of water to the caravan through  a front skylight  that 
was damaged in a storm. It was inspected by a firm of consultant motor engineers and 
assessors (firm A) after which the claim was paid. In 2018 Mr and Mrs H arranged for a 
service and inspection  to be done by a caravan servicing firm (firm B). The inspection was 
done by Mr W, who found water ingress  to the rear of the vehicle. He said the entry  point 
was possibly through the toilet locker door or frame. He also found  mould  in a couple of 
areas. He thought the mould was due to the 2017 incident.  
Mr and Mrs H made  a further claim on their insurance policy with AXA for the damage  
caused by the new ingress.  It arranged for firm A to carry  out a further inspection.  Firm A 
found no evidence  of damp  to the front end of the caravan, where the initial ingress was. It 
noted that Mr W had carried out a damp-meter test report. That showed  high readings  
around the toilet area to the rear of the caravan,  but no evidence of damp elsewhere.
Firm A spoke to Mr W about  the recent  water  ingress. He told it he thought water had 
probably entered via the outer seals of the toilet frame or the water filler above it. Firm A said 
it was common in caravans for the seals applied  by the manufacturer to deteriorate. It said 
Mr and Mrs H had said theyd noted  a slight drip from the skylight  frame.  Firm A couldnt find 
any sign of it. It said that couldnt have created what seemed  to be extensive  damage to the 
rear of the caravan anyway. In firm As view, the new damp wasnt  due to previous water 
ingress. It said any water trapped below the floor covering would  have been  obvious earlier.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. He thought it was reasonable 
for AXA to decline  the claim based on the findings  of the reports.  Although Mr S said Mr W 
had told him the new damp might have been caused  by the original ingress, the investigator 
noted that wasnt what Mr W said in his report - or what he said to firm A.
Mr S said the unknown quantity  of water entering  the caravan in 2017 had been ignored. He 
said he couldnt find anything on forums of the deterioration of seals  around caravan toilets 
being common. He said the views of firm A and firm B were  speculative, as the only actual 
evidence of water ingress was through the skylight. He said AXA could have had the 
caravan stripped to show whether the seals were  faulty. And he said where there were two 
possible versions of events, an insurer should  give the insured the benefit  of the doubt.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, AXA declined the claim after relying  on the reports  from firm A and from Mr W 
on behalf of firm B. I think it was entitled to do that. The policy covers storm damage, but not 
damage caused by deterioration, wear and tear, water leakage or any gradually operating 
process. So the claim didnt seem  to be valid. 
Ref: DRN29563352Firm A supported Mr and Mrs Hs claim in 2017. The same persons expertise was used in 
2018 when firm A considered the new claim. And firm A also consulted with Mr W of firm B. 
He agreed with its view that the new damp  wasnt related  to the water ingress in 2017. His 
report showed that the new damp was recorded in the rear of the caravan only. He thought  it 
possible that it had entered through the toilet locker  door or frame. He couldnt say for sure,  
but he was certain  about where  the new damp  was located. 
Firm B said the following in its 2018  report:  
We do not consider  that the damp  as recently  found  in the offside rear of the caravan. is 
related to the previous  damage / renewal of the front roof light, but that this is the result of a 
completely separate issue, and most probably  the common  failure  of the external sealant  as 
initially applied by the manufacturer.
Firm A wasnt  able to say with certainty that the seals had allowed water in. But its opinion 
that the new damage wasnt  the result of the 2017 incident was based on its professional  
assessment, supported  by the tests  done  by Mr W and his view.   
Ms S has suggested that since water finds its own level, it could have got under the floor 
covering and settled  in the toilet area. Firm A said it was most unlikely that water  would have 
been trapped in that way. And it said that problem would have emerged well before the time 
the new damp was noted and reported,  which  was 15 to 16 months later.    
Based on the information available to it from firm A and firm B, I think it was reasonable for 
AXA to decide  to decline the claim without  paying  for stripping down work to be done. It 
seemed the new damage wasnt caused  by an insurable event. It was open to Mr and Mrs H 
to have that work done - or to get an opinion from an independent assessor  / engineer. As 
they were making  a claim,  it was for them to show that the claim was covered by the policy.
I dont think Mr S is correct in saying that the unknown amount of water that entered the 
caravan in 2017 was ignored.  The caravan has been inspected three times since  then and 
the reports all referred  to it. But the consensus is that whatever volume of water entered  at 
that point, it couldnt be shown that it was a factor  in the new claim. I appreciate that Mr and 
Mrs H have a different view, and that Mr S strongly  supports their position. But I dont think  
theyve shown that AXA acted unreasonably in declining the claim, based on the information  
it had at the time. So I cant uphold their complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 December 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2956335