K822xcomplaint
Mr H disputes the end of contract charges that have been applied by PSA Finance UK 
Limited (PSA) for refurbishment to a vehicle he had been financing  through  them.
background 
Mr H took delivery of a new vehicle  in October  2017.  He financed the arrangement through a 
one year hire agreement with PSA. The terms of the hire agreement explained that the car 
would need to be returned in a good  condition  or PSA may charge to have any damage  
repaired. But when  Mr H returned the car he was disappointed to be given  a bill for £359 for 
damage to:
bonnet (contamination)  £40
quarter panel  left (poor repair) £122
rear bumper (preparation marks)  £75
front wing left (poor repair) £122
He complained to PSA and they agreed to reduce the bill by £100  as a good  will gesture. But 
Mr H was still disappointed and he referred  his complaint to this service.
Our investigator provided her view in March 2019. She noted that Mr H accepted the charge 
for the bonnet paintwork  contamination  but disputed the other charges. She reviewed the 
pictures provided by the third party company who had inspected  the car and she thought 
there was evidence the paint surface wasnt smooth on the quarter panel and front wing.  
She noted that the car was new when Mr H took receipt  of it so she thought  it was most 
likely this damage had happened whilst hed had the car. She therefore  thought  the charges 
for refurbishment of these  panels had been correctly levied. But she didnt think the bumper  
charge should  be made. She noted  that Mr H had the bumper repaired by a PSA approved  
garage and had provided evidence of this. So she didnt think  it would be fair to charge him 
when hed done all he could to assure  the repair was of a satisfactory standard.  She 
understood that Mr H had already paid these charges so she thought a fair resolution would 
be to ask PSA to refund £75 in relation to the bumper  refurbishment she thought PSA 
shouldnt charge.
PSA agreed to remove the charge for the bumper refurbishment but Mr H didnt agree with 
the investigator. He explained  that hed not seen the car before it was delivered to him and 
as there  was no pre-inspection he couldnt  understand  how the inspector could suggest the 
damage wasnt there when the car was supplied to him. He also explained that he couldnt 
see any damage in the pictures provided  in the third party inspection  report.  So he asked  for 
a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H but I agree with the investigators opinion and I think PSA have 
now done enough to rectify the situation. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN20922582Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The hire agreement Mr H signed explained that on return  of the vehicle it must have been 
kept in a good condition.  It explained what a good condition was in schedule  1 of the 
agreement.
The standards developed  in this schedule are broadly in line with the industry  guidelines on 
fair wear and tear that are provided  by the British  Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA).
So Im satisfied Mr H knew  what condition he needed to return the car in and that the 
condition expected was in line with industry  guidelines and was therefore  fair.
Ive reviewed each  of the four areas of damage Mr H has been charged  for. I note that he 
doesnt dispute the damage to the bonnets paint surface as hes explained this was due to 
bird droppings. PSA has agreed to remove the charge for the bumper repair  and as this was 
carried out by an approved PSA body  shop, I think its reasonable to suggest they do that. 
Mr H could hardly have  done  anything else to ensure the bumper was in an appropriate  
condition.
Mr H says the damage to the other  two panels  isnt visible  but I disagree. The quarter panel 
is clearly pitted and the front wing has a mark on it thats clearly over 50mm. I think theyre  
both outside of what would fairly be considered fair wear and tear.
He also says the damage was there  from the beginning but Im not persuaded this was most 
likely. This was a new car and Mr H wouldve expected it to be in immaculate condition  when  
it was delivered to him. I think  its likely  he wouldve highlighted  any issues  at that point, if 
there were any, and given the 6,500  miles driven over his year of ownership, I think its more  
likely that any damage would have been  incurred in his ownership,  than prior to delivery.
Ive reviewed the charges PSA have made for each of the remaining items  and I think  theyre 
in line with other charges Ive seen for similar issues. I dont think  the charges are excessive 
and I note PSA has already applied a discount of £100 to the sum it originally charged Mr H. 
So I dont  think theyve  been unreasonable here and I dont think  they need  to reduce the bill 
any further.
Ref: DRN20922583my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell PSA Finance UK 
Limited to refund £75 to Mr H in relation to the charge they have made for bumper 
refurbishment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2092258