K820x#14complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the service she received from Aviva Insurance Limited when she 
made a claim on her home emergency insurance policy. 
background
Ms M has a HomeServe policy covering her for issues with plumbing  and drainage.  The 
policy is underwritten by Aviva. She claimed  on the policy in August  2017.  An engineer 
attended and fixed a broken drainage pipe which had been leaking. In December 2018  Ms M 
made a complaint because she was unhappy with how the pipe was installed and that shed 
had to do a lot of work to fix the paving,  including having to match the cement  and paving  
stones. Shes also unhappy because there is a bump in the paving. 
In their final response letter Aviva said work was only guaranteed for 12 months, and 
Ms M had contacted  them more than 12 months after the work  had been completed. They 
also said the policy didnt  offer cover for reinstating  the paving. So they didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think Aviva  had acted 
unreasonably as a long time had passed between when the repair took place and when 
Ms M complained. She also agreed  the policy didnt offer cover  for reinstatement work.   
Ms M didnt agree and explained  she didnt  think her complaint had been understood. In 
summary, she says the engineer who attended  said he couldnt put the pipe in any lower  and 
thats caused the bump. She wants a second  opinion about whether thats right and shes  
queried whether  it was reasonable  for her to be left to sort out the issue with the paving 
stones. So I need  to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the policy terms 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Plumbing and Drainage: You are covered  for incidents relating to your plumbing and 
drainage. The engineer  will resolve  the immediate problem by repairing or replacing  
leaking pipes, clearing  blockages, repairing  taps, restoring toilet  facilities,  repairs  to 
leaking overflows, investigating the causes  of noisy pipes and quietening these 
where they can be accessed.  The engineer will leave  a blocked drain running clear  
by cleaning the drain or repairing the damaged  section of waste pipe.  This will 
include the temporary reinstatement of any excavations carried out as part of the 
claim
Temporary reinstatement is defined as: 
The re-filling of any necessary excavation to leave the ground level and safe. This 
does not include  the like for like reinstatement  of decorative elements such  as hard 
or soft landscaping,  drives, pathways,  walls, flower beds or lawns
Ref: DRN28146072In relation to guaranteeing workmanship and parts  the policy  says:
under this policy, the workmanship and any part(s) used by us to solve  the problem 
will be guaranteed  for a period of 12 months from the date the work is carried out.
the claim
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding Ms Ms 
complaint because: 
Ms M has queried  whether the engineer  was right to say the pipe couldnt go in any 
lower. She wants Aviva to send someone  out for a second  opinion. I dont think thats  
reasonable in the circumstances of this case as its nearly  two years since the repair 
was carried out as Ms M didnt raise this concern  until over a year after the work had 
been completed. On balance, I think the delay places  Aviva at a disadvantage, both 
in terms of inspecting  the work and obtaining information from their engineer about 
the course of action  he took during the appointment. So I dont think its fair to direct  
Aviva to get a second opinion in the circumstances of this case; 
The engineer  fixed the immediate problem  by repairing the joint in a pipe which  was 
broken. Under  the policy terms and conditions Ms M is covered for the repair  of the 
damaged section of the pipe and the temporary reinstatement  which is refilling the 
area thats been excavated to make it level and safe. As Ive outlined above that 
doesnt include reinstatement of decorative  elements, such  as drives  and pathways. 
So Aviva  isnt responsible for matching the cement and paving  back as thats  a 
decorative element;
Ms M says the engineers left the paving  up. Shes referred to a picture  showing it 
exactly as it was left by the engineer.  But this point doesnt change  my thoughts  
about the outcome of this complaint. I can see that soil has been  placed around a 
section of the pipe and levelled off around  the doorway. The soil level is just a little 
lower than the level of the paving. So Im satisfied the engineer  took reasonable 
steps to refill the excavation and level it, which is what  the policy terms required him 
to do. He wasnt required to reinstate the decorative  element  for the reasons  Ive 
outlined above.  
my final decision
Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
Im required  to ask Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2814607