K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs B say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them the PPI.
They applied for the mortgage and PPI at a meeting with NatWest and the policy  provided 
cover for Mr B only. Mrs B wasnt covered by the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs B have  said it wasnt made  clear to them that the PPI was optional.  Ive 
seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  application.  The form has all of Mr and Mrs 
Bs details so I think its likely to be a reasonable reflection  of what Mr and Mrs B 
discussed with NatWest at the time of sale. On the form Mr and Mrs B ticked yes 
next to Do you want Mortgage Repayments Protector? (the PPI).  They  couldve 
ticked no if they didnt  want  the PPI. So I think NatWest made  it clear  that Mr and 
Mrs B didnt  have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why they cant remember this.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs B got the information 
they needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time 
it doesnt look like Mr B was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been  useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks  
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs B paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Bs PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Bs commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr and Mrs B back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN28206872my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2820687