K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain because Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) hasnt paid a claim 
under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to IPA include the agents it has appointed to handle  claims. 
Background
Mr and Mrs G were insured under a travel policy provided by IPA. The policy was bought 
through a price comparison website. 
While on holiday  abroad, Mrs G unfortunately  fell ill and was admitted to hospital. 
Mr G notified IPA about the claim and, following Mrs Gs discharge from hospital, they 
returned to the UK on their original flights. 
IPA later said it wouldnt pay Mr and Mrs Gs claim because their policy  wasnt  designed  to 
cover anyone with previous medical conditions. IPA said, when Mr and Mrs G bought their 
policy, theyd been asked if they had any medical  conditions and they should  have answered 
the questions  asked in a different way. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and thought  the complaint should  be 
upheld. IPA didnt  agree, so the case has been passed to me to decide.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs policy say that claims arising  directly  or 
indirectly from pre-existing medical  conditions will not be covered, I dont think its fair or 
reasonable for IPA to rely on this policy exclusion to turn down their claim. 
This is because Mr and Mrs G were asked questions about  their medical history when they 
bought their policy. Therefore, I think the principles  set out in the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosures and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant, and I think it would be 
fair and reasonable to apply these  principles to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate  remedy  if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. 
A qualifying  misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to 
misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that 
of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered  when deciding  whether a 
consumer has taken  reasonable  care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the 
insurer were.  
If a qualifying  misrepresentation has been  made  then there are a number  of remedies 
available to the insurer, depending on the type of misrepresentation involved and what the 
insurer would have  done differently had the policyholder not misrepresented relevant facts.  
An insurers  remedies under CIDRA  apply  regardless of whether there  is a connection 
Ref: DRN23160932between the consumers medical history  and the reason for their claim.  In this case, IPA is 
seeking to rely on a remedy which  allows it to avoid the contract and refuse all claims.
But I dont think IPA is entitled to do this, as I dont think Mr and Mrs G have made  a 
qualifying misrepresentation.  
When Mr and Mrs G bought their policy, they were  asked the following question:
Within the last 5 years  has anyone you wish to insure on this policy suffered any 
medical condition  (medical  or psychological  disease, sickness, condition,  illness  or 
injury) that has required prescribed medication  or treatment including surgery,  tests 
or investigations?
I think this question is clear and specific, and Mr and Mrs G answered yes.  Having reviewed  
the information available to me about Mrs Gs medical history,  I think Mrs G answered this 
question correctly. So, Mr and Mrs G didnt make  a qualifying  misrepresentation when 
answering this question in the way they did. 
After correctly answering the question asked, Mr and Mrs G werent directed to a policy  
which provided the cover they were looking for. Instead, IPA directed them  to a policy which  
didnt cover pre-existing medical conditions.  
IPA says, later in the sales  process,  Mr and Mrs G were presented  with some important 
information relating  to health  the terms of which meant no cover  was in place for pre-
existing medical conditions, and the terms of which IPA says Mr and Mrs G accepted. While 
I understand Mr and Mrs G may have  been  asked to agree to a further declaration or set of 
questions, I dont think Mr and Mrs G failed to take reasonable care in answering these in 
the circumstances. Mr and Mrs G had already correctly answered yes to the first question  
theyd been asked, so I think it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs G to consider theyd already 
told IPA the information it wanted to know. 
Overall, this means I dont  think there has been  a qualifying misrepresentation under 
CIDRA, so IPA isnt entitled to rely on the remedies set out under the legislation.  Therefore, I 
think it would  be fair and reasonable for IPA to pay Mr and Mrs Gs claim. 
Im satisfied that IPAs  inaccurate explanations to Mr and Mrs G about how it thinks  they 
should have answered the medical question caused  distress and confusion to Mrs G, who 
has repeatedly reiterated  she answered this question honestly.   
Mr and Mrs G received  multiple requests for payment from the hospital. This will inevitably 
have been stressful  and resulted in Mr and Mrs G being inconvenienced by having to pay 
Mrs Gs medical  bills themselves. This could  have been avoided if IPA had assessed  their 
claim correctly from the outset. 
I think a payment of compensation  is warranted  for the impact  of IPAs  actions  on Mr and 
Mrs G, and I think an award of £250 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN23160933My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Inter Partner Assistance  S.A must  do the following:
pay Mr and Mrs Gs claim  in line with the remaining terms and conditions of their 
policy;
add interest to the payment for Mrs Gs medical  bills at 8% simple per annum, from 
the date the bills were  paid until the date of settlement; and
pay Mr and Mrs G £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they 
experienced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2020.
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2316093