K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr J says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Theres little information  available  about how exactly the policy  was sold. The mortgage and 
policy were sold (and I understand ended)  a long time before a complaint was first made. So 
I dont read anything negative into the limited availability of paperwork and other evidence.
Mr J has said he didnt know he had the PPI. But Ive seen that he was sent a welcome  
letter for the policy. Ive also seen that he was in communication with Santander, at the time 
the mortgage was redeemed, to cancel the policy. So I think he was aware he had it.  And 
given the lack of any other available evidence, Im unable  to find the business  didnt  present 
the policy as optional.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr J so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible some of the information  Santander  gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr J, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr J has said - including what  he said about his savings,  his 
other property and his redundancy/death in service entitlements. I dont think  his redundancy 
entitlement or access to savings meant it wasnt right for Santander to recommend this 
policy to Mr J. The insurance  could  potentially allow him to pay the mortgage without the 
need to deplete his savings (or dispose  of his other property). And I dont think death in 
Ref: DRN23145302service cover is directly comparable to this type of insurance. So these points dont change 
my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr J any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2314530