K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Bank  of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) in 2003.
background
The PPI policy was sold as part of a Total Mortgage Payment Protection policy  (TMPP).      
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes PPI together with other 
features, such as life insurance and critical illness cover.  The individual  elements  of the 
cover can be added or taken out as the consumer wishes. 
Miss Hs complaint is about the PPI element of the TMPP. So this decision relates solely to 
the PPI part of the policy. The PPI covered Miss H against accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment. If shed  made a successful claim,  the PPI policy  wouldve covered  the 
mortgage repayments for up to 24 months.
Ill refer to Halifax in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
The policy was sold many years  ago so it isnt surprising that Halifax doesnt  have copies  of 
all the paperwork completed at the time. I also have to take into account  that memories  can 
fade over time. In cases like this, where  the evidence  is incomplete or contradictory, I make  
my decision  on the balance of probabilities  that is, on what  I think  is most likely to have 
happened. 
Ive taken into account what we know about  how Halifax  sold these policies in branches  
around this time and the documents weve seen in the past. And, on balance,  the paperwork  
in these cases made it clear to consumers that the policy  was optional and they would have 
been asked for their consent to the cover.
The premiums for the TMPP policy were  taken separately to the mortgage payments by 
direct debit. And the policy  was in force until 2006.  If Miss H didnt want  the cover  or thought  
she didnt need  it Id expect her to have questioned it at an early stage. But Ive not seen any 
evidence that she did.
So taking everything into account I think its more likely  Miss H was told she had a choice 
about whether  to buy the policy or not, and she chose to take it.
Halifax recommended  that Miss H buy the policy. So Halifax had a duty to make sure it was 
right for her. And from what  Ive seen I think it was.
Ref: DRN28757842Miss H seems to have been  eligible for the policy. She wasnt  affected  by anything the policy 
didnt cover such as unusual employment conditions  or existing medical conditions. So shed 
have been able to make a claim if she needed  to.
Miss H has told us she wouldve received full sick pay from her employer for up to six 
months if she was unable to work. And this would be followed by a period of half pay if she 
still couldnt return to work. But this particular PPI policy couldve paid Miss H a benefit for up 
to 24 months in addition  to any sick pay. So if Miss H had become unwell I think she 
wouldve found the policy useful, particularly if she was unable  to work for a prolonged spell.
The policy would also pay a benefit  for up to 24 months if Miss H lost her job. Although   
Miss H may have got some redundancy pay if that happened, the policy would allow  her to 
use any redundancy pay or savings towards  other living costs. 
Miss H has said she could  rely on her father to help her if things  went  wrong as he was 
guarantor on the mortgage. But although Miss Hs father may have wanted to help, he may 
not have been in a position to easily do so when Miss H needed it. And the policy  would 
mean Miss H could continue to meet the mortgage  repayments without resorting to help from 
her father.
Miss H has said her partner could have helped her, but the mortgage  was taken out in her 
sole name so she was solely responsible for making  the payments.
As well as making sure the policy was right for her, Halifax also had to give Miss H 
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading.  
Its possible that Halifax didnt give Miss H all the information it shouldve. But from what Ive 
seen the policy was right for Miss H and I think its likely Miss H was interested  in this type of 
cover. The cost of the policy seems to have  been comparable to other,  similar policies on the 
market at the time, and Ive not seen anything to make me think the premiums were  not 
affordable. So even if Halifax had given Miss H all the clear information  about the policy  and 
the premiums that it should have, I still think shed have bought it.
In summary  I think its most likely  the policy was presented as optional and Miss H chose to 
buy it. It looks like Halifax recommended  a policy that was right for Miss H, and I dont think 
any clearer information wouldve made her change her mind about  applying for the policy.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Bank of Scotland  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2875784