K822xcomplaint
Mr T is unhappy  with what Indigo  Michael Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit  (SNC)) has 
offered to do to put things right as a result of irresponsibly giving him a Safety Net Facility.
background
Mr T approached SNC for a Safety  Net facility in 2015. This was a running  credit account 
where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be 
deposited into their bank account once  their account balance  fell below a Safety Net 
amount of the customers choosing. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ts complaint and he thought  SNC had shouldnt  have 
provided Mr T with his Safety Net facility. He told SNC to remove  the interest  and charges 
applied to Mr Ts facility from the outset  as well as remove any adverse information recorded  
on Mr Ts credit file, in order to put things right. SNC  agreed to do this. But Mr T disagreed  
and said SNC should  write off the remaining outstanding balance  he owed. As Mr T 
disagreed with our adjudicator the case was put forward for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought  about everything, I think what SNC has agreed to do is fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Ts case. Id like to explain why I think  this.
Both Mr T and SNC are in agreement that Mr T shouldnt have been given his Safety Net 
facility and any funds  as a result. So I dont need  to look at whether SNCs checks  were  
reasonable and proportionate, I only need decide whether what it has offered to do to put 
things right is fair. 
At this point it might help for me to explain that where a business accepts (or we decide) it 
did something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they 
would be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business  to put 
a consumer in the position  theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the loan they shouldnt  
have. But Mr T was given  his facility and he used  the funds. 
So its simply not possible to put Mr T in the position he would be in if he hadnt been  given  
his Safety Net facility in the first place. And we have to look at what else we can do to put 
things right in a way thats fair to all parties.  In reality  its the (increasing) interest  and 
charges on these loans,  on the complaints that are upheld, thats the main consequence of 
the business giving a consumer a loan it shouldnt have. 
As a result where a lender provided  a consumer with credit it shouldnt  have, wed expect it 
to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any interest and 
charges on that loan.  This means wed normally expect a lender  to refund the interest  and 
charges added to any loan that shouldnt have been  given. 
And if those  interest  and charges  were paid also add 8% simple  interest  per year.  The lender 
will normally  also remove  adverse information   rather  than all reference to the loan - 
Ref: DRN26008832recorded on the consumers credit file as a result  of the interest and charges on those loans. 
And given  the consumer  will have had and used the funds wed usually expect the funds 
borrowed to be repaid. 
That said,  we look at cases individually and on their own merits. So while we have a general 
approach to how we how we might  tell a lender to put things right where it provided credit it 
shouldnt have (such  as here), we can tell it to do something different if theres a strong 
reason to say thats what would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances.  
Mr T says I should tell SNC to do something  different here.  He says I should tell it to write off 
his outstanding balance. I also understand that he wants me to tell SNC to pay his 
representatives fees. Ive carefully  thought about  what Mr T has said. 
There may be circumstances where it would  be right for me to tell a business to write off an 
outstanding debt  for example, where  requiring a consumer to repay a debt would cause 
undue financial hardship. But I understand that Mr T has  through his debt management 
plan - already reached an arrangement to repay what he owes through reduced repayments.  
And I havent seen  anything to suggest that Mr T continuing to make these payments would 
cause him undue financial hardship.
Ive also thought about what  Mr T has said about his representatives fees. I know Mr T 
chose to use the services  of a Claims Management  Company  (CMC). But we do make it 
clear that its free to complain to us and consumers dont need  to use a CMC. As this is the 
case and Mr T chose  to use the services  of a CMC  when he didnt need to do so, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable for me to now ask SNC to pay Mr Ts CMC fees. 
So overall and having carefully thought  about what Mr T has said,  I think  what SNC has 
already agreed  to do is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of his particular case. And I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more in order to put things right for Mr T. 
my decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I think what Indigo  Michael Limited (trading as Safety Net 
Credit) has agreed to do is a fair way to put things  right in this case.  So Im not asking  it to 
do anything more, or anything different.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2600883