K820x#14complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) will not try to recover 
money hes paid for a misrepresented  service.
background
In 2010 Mr N says he signed up for a contract with a holiday club Ill call R. Between 2010 
and 2011 he paid a total of £7.868.45 to the company  using his Nationwide  debit card.  He 
says that he realised that the contract  was mis-sold to him and he therefore asked 
Nationwide to raise  a chargeback and get his money back.
But Nationwide said they couldnt raise a chargeback request because Mr N had brought his 
claim out of time. 
So Mr N referred his complaint to this service. But our adjudicator explained that the 
chargeback scheme  operator set strict  time limits  within which a chargeback could be raised 
and unfortunately  Mr Ns complaint had been  made  outside of these limits. He noted that 
Mr N made  his last transaction in June 2011 but hadnt complained to the bank until mid 
2018. This meant he was out of time on the standard time limit of 120 days. He explained 
that the chargeback scheme provider  did set some extended limits  which could be applied  in 
exceptional circumstances  and particularly where transactions  related to a service  that would  
be provided in the future. These extended limits allowed 540 days  to elapse from the date of 
transaction to the date the chargeback  request was made. But the adjudicator explained 
that, even on this basis, Mr Ns complaint was out of time and he therefore didnt think 
Nationwide had done anything wrong  when rejecting the chargeback request.
But Mr N disagreed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr N but I agree with the adjudicators opinion.  Please let me explain 
why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes  are resolved between 
card issuers  and merchants, under the relevant  card scheme  rules.  
What this means here is that Nationwide can in some  circumstances  ask for a transaction to 
be reversed if theres  a problem with the goods or services supplied  by the merchant Mr N 
paid.
Its important to note that chargebacks are decided  based on the card scheme's rules, not 
the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. So its not for Nationwide  or me  to 
decide whether  Mr N should  be allowed to get his money back.
Ref: DRN25645682But there first has to be a right to apply for a chargeback under the card scheme  rules  and 
some of those relate to time limitations.  A chargeback request must  be raised by the bank 
within 120 days of the date of the transaction but where a transaction  relates  to a future 
service that time limit may be extended  to 540 days.  Here the last transaction  was in June 
2011 and Mr N didnt  complain until mid 2018.  Thats outside of the time limits  set by the 
card scheme rules and therefore Nationwide couldnt raise  a chargeback.
Whilst I know this has been  a frustrating issue for Mr N I dont think  Nationwide  has done 
anything wrong  here and I wont be asking them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2564568