K822xComplaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC restricted  access  to his accounts on two 
separate occasions. 
Background 
Mr P has three accounts with Barclays including a business account. 
Mr P complains that in October 2018  and April 2019 Barclays restricted access  to his 
accounts. 
On the 9 April 2019  Barclays restricted access to Mr Ps account. They  unrestricted  his 
access on the 18 April 2019.  Theyd  previously restricted  his accounts for 8 working days in 
October 2018. 
Mr P complained to Barclays  and said that theyd verified a £1,700 transaction  prior to the 
account block. And he didnt understand why theyd reviewed his accounts  again.
Barclays looked into Mr Ps complaint, but concluded theyd acted  fairly  in reviewing the 
account. The bank  explained that reviews normally take 10 working days, but Mr Ps account  
review was completed within 7 working  days.  The bank said theyd acted within the terms 
and conditions of the account  specifically section 4.6. But they did offer Mr P £150  for the 
errors in their complaint handling. 
Mr P wasnt  happy with Barclays response  and said Barclays had lied and broken the 
contractual agreement. He was also unhappy they didnt let him know about the second 
block on his account.  And thought theyd quoted the wrong section of the terms and 
conditions when reviewing his account. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint. Although they concluded it was fair for 
Barclays to restrict access  to Mr Ps accounts they thought the overall service Barclays  
provided was poor. They particularly  highlighted  the section which states Barclays  will notify 
a customer of a block  of their payment tools.  And asked Barclays  to pay an additional £250 
in compensation.  
Barclays accepted  our investigators  view  but Mr P didnt. 
As Mr P didnt agree  its been passed  to me for a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive come to the same  
conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons. 
Mr Ps accounts were restricted on two occasions in October 2018 and April 2019.  Although  
I appreciate that Mr P is unhappy with the restrictions placed on his accounts, businesses 
have a legal  obligation to protect the security of their accounts and to comply  with various 
laws and regulations.  Mr P agreed  to this term as a customer  and its a reasonable term. Im 
satisfied that Barclays  were acted in line with its legal  and regulatory  obligations  and in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions of the Mr Ps accounts when they reviewed them.  
Ref: DRN22363962Having looked  at the account activity I can see why Barclays had concerns, on both 
occasions, and decided to review Mr Ps accounts.  So I dont think the bank didnt anything 
wrong when it blocked  Mr Ps accounts and didnt  allow him access to his funds. 
Ive considered the level of service Barclays provided Mr P during  the account  restrictions,  
and I can see why hes frustrated at not being notified on either occasion about the account 
blocks. But I can see that Mr P made  contact  with Barclays soon after the block in April,  
therefore he was aware  a block was in place and the likely timescale for this soon after its 
placement. Im aware that Barclays agreed  to our investigators recommendation for an 
additional £250 payment  for the inconvenience  caused to Mr P, on top of the £150 already 
paid. And Im satisfied  this is fair compensation in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Barclays Bank  UK PLC to:
-Pay Mr P an additional £250 for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 November  2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2236396