K820x#14complaint
Miss J says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1999  in one of the banks 
branches. The policy was taken out at the same time as Miss J applied  for the credit card. It 
gave her accident, sickness and unemployment  cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss J disagreed so the complaint  was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Js complaint, Ill explain why.
When Miss J applied  for the credit card she ticked  a box on the form indicating  that she 
wanted PPI. And the option  to decline it was set out with equal prominence. Miss J says 
Barclays didnt tell her other  policies  were available elsewhere  but that wasnt something 
it had to do. So, I think Barclays made it clear the PPI was optional and Miss J agreed to 
take it out. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Miss J so it had to check  if it was suitable for her. I 
think it was based on what Ive seen about  her circumstances at the time. Miss J wasnt  
entitled to sick pay from her employer and had no savings - the PPI would have paid out 
for each successful accident, sickness and unemployment claim for up to 12 months. 
Overall I think  the PPI would have  been useful for Miss J if she was sick, or lost her job.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss J about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Miss J chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have  
wanted this type of cover.  She wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy was competitively  priced  and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely  Miss J 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance 
I think she would still have taken  out the policy.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss J because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss J about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Miss J, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ref: DRN22564372The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss J.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss J any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss J to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2256437