K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has 
used the compensation it agreed to pay them following a complaint about the mis-sale of 
three payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a loan in joint names  in 1998  (loan 1) and then two further loans in 
Mr S name only in 1999 (loan 2) and 2000  (loan  3). With each  loan they took out a PPI 
policy, paid for by adding the cost of the policy to the loan amount borrowed.
Around 2000 Mr and Mrs S had some financial problems. The records Ive seen indicate  that 
Mr and Mrs S entered into a financial arrangement  and a trust deed around 
October/November 2000. Mr and Mrs S confirm they had financial problems in 2000  and 
indicate they signed a trust deed but say they withdrew from this after around 14 days. 
In 2018 Mr and Mrs S complained to RBS that they had been mis-sold PPI with their loans 
and RBS upheld  their complaints for all the policies. RBS offered Mr S compensation for 
50% of the compensation for the PPI taken out with the joint loan and full compensation for 
the costs of the PPI for both policies taken out with the loans in his name alone. The other 
50% PPI compensation for the joint loan was due to Mrs S and offered to her separately.
Mr S signed  the acceptance forms for his offers but RBS used the compensation to reduce 
the amount it said was still owed to the bank for the loans and other debts. It said it would do 
the same  with the compensation owed to Mrs S for her liability  for the joint debts still 
outstanding.
Mr and Mrs S say they should  get the money paid to them directly as they have been debt 
free for many years. They  also say the total amount they borrowed was far less than the 
amount RBS say was never repaid. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  what RBS had done was fair. 
Mr and Mrs S have  disagreed, so this complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS made  an offer to settle Mr and Mrs S complaint about PPI sold with the three loans  and 
Mr and Mrs S are not saying that the amount  offered is wrong. So Im not looking at the 
calculations and how much RBS has offered in compensation.  What  I have to decide is 
whether or not what RBS has done  with the compensation is fair.
 
The first loan taken  out in October 1998 was in joint names for £4,000 and the cost of the 
PPI (£448) was added to the amount they borrowed. In September  1999 Mr S then took out 
a loan, in his name alone, which refinanced the first loan.  This second loan was for £11,400 
and again the cost of the PPI policy (£2,695)  was added to the amount borrowed.  In May 
2000 Mr S took out a further  loan in his name for £750 and the PPI cost of £82 was again  
added to the amount he borrowed.
Ref: DRN28213692In total, with these  three loans, Mr and Mrs S borrowed £16,150 for their own use. When  
taking account  of the PPI amount added to each loan the total amount borrowed was 
£19,365. This takes no account of any interest charged on the loans to be repaid or any 
charges made for non-payment etc.
In late 2000 it is indicated that Mr and Mrs S jointly entered into a protected trust deed. It is 
unclear what may have  happened in full as Mr and Mrs S say they withdrew  from this within  
a few weeks and I have seen no evidence to show exactly what happened to bring any trust 
deed to an end. 
There have been  some court cases recently about to whom  PPI compensation should be 
paid when a consumer has been discharged from a protected  trust deed.  But as it is unclear 
in this case that there was an effective trust deed in place these do not seem  relevant. 
Whether there was a trust deed  in place or not does  not change  my opinion as to what is fair 
and reasonable in this case.  I have  seen statements for loans 2 and 3 and also for the joint 
bank account  of Mr and Mrs S and these show a total of just over £19,500 was owed to RBS 
in February 2006  and I have seen nothing to show any further reduction of that amount of 
debt was ever made. So even though  Mr and Mrs S have  not been  chased for any payment 
towards that debt it still exists.
I have noted Mr and Mrs S comments that the total sum of loans they had was only between  
£3,000 and £4,000.  But the loan statements show that loan 1 was for £4,000 (plus the PPI 
premium), and loan 2 was for £11,400  (plus the PPI premium). This was almost 20 years 
ago and I understand that Mr and Mrs S had a number of financial problems so it is likely 
they do not recall  fully all the financial issues in detail from the time.
However I am satisfied  on the evidence presented that Mr and Mrs S did owe to RBS more 
than £19,000  for loans  and their joint bank account  debt that were  never  repaid. And that 
RBS have not pursued Mr and Mrs S for that debt.
The compensation for the mis-sold PPI policies has been worked  out on the basis  that 50% 
of the compensation for the costs paid for PPI with loan 1 would be paid each to 
Mr and Mrs S. This is because they took out the loan in joint names  and had joint liability  for 
its repayment. The compensation for loans 2 and 3 was due to Mr S alone as he took out 
these loans in his name alone. 
For loan 1 Mr and Mrs S were offered £250.21 each. For loan 2 Mr S was offered £195.42 
and for loan 3 £8,666.61. A total to Mr S of £9,112.24 and to Mrs S £250.21. So the amount 
RBS owed to Mr and Mrs S was several thousand pounds less than what Mr and Mrs S 
never repaid to RBS for their borrowings.
I have considered all the relevant law and the facts and information  presented  to me and 
I think it would be unfair  to tell RBS to pay the PPI compensation  to Mr and Mrs S, when 
Mr and Mrs S dont  now have to pay back everything they borrowed for their own use from 
RBS. So it is fair for the debts to be set against  each other in the facts of this case.
Ref: DRN28213693my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I think what The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plcs has done 
with the compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair and reasonable and Im not telling it to do 
anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 January 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2821369