K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK plc (trading in this case  under its Barclaycard brand) 
is holding him liable for a large number  of credit card transactions  that he says he neither 
made nor authorised.   
background
Mr H had a Barclaycard account which  he hadnt  used for some months and which  had a 
zero balance. Because of that, he hadnt received statements for a while.  
The banks records show that, in November 2017, someone called to report  Mr Hs card 
missing and to request  a replacement card and PIN reminder. They  were duly sent to Mr Hs 
address. 
Over the following few weeks the card and PIN were used to make a large number of 
payments at retail outlets  and cash machine withdrawals. Most were  made  using the card 
and PIN, but a small number were contactless  payments  so didnt require the PIN. 
At one point  the card was blocked  and Barclaycard attempted to contact Mr H. It managed  to 
do so by letter and then received a call asking that the block be removed.  It was, and the 
spending continued. Barclaycard contacted  Mr H again, this time by email, when the 
spending on the card neared Mr Hs credit limit of £11,400.  He contacted Barclaycard a 
couple of days  later to say that all the card use had been fraudulent.  He hadnt ordered the 
replacement card and hadnt received it or the PIN reminder. 
Barclaycard looked  into Mr Hs claims,  but concluded that he probably  had been responsible  
for the card use. It said that whoever  ordered  the card and PIN and later removed the block 
on the card had been able to answer  detailed security questions  and was likely to be Mr H, 
or someone  acting with his authority. It said too that it was unlikely that neither the card nor 
the PIN had been delivered  safely to Mr H. 
Mr H didnt accept Barclaycards  conclusions  and referred the matter to this service, where 
one of our adjudicators looked into things. She concluded that either Mr H carried  out the 
transactions or that someone else did so with Mr Hs knowledge and consent. Either  way, 
she said, it wouldnt be fair to make Barclaycard refund them.  Mr H didnt accept the 
adjudicators findings  and asked that they be reviewed  by an ombudsman.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the adjudicator  did, and for similar reasons.  
First of all, Im satisfied that all the transactions, including  contactless payments, were made 
with the genuine card. That is of course consistent  with Mr Hs account  of events and with 
the card and PIN being acquired  by someone other  than Mr H. I think it likely as well though  
that they were  all made by the same  person or the same group  of people working together. 
There were two significant telephone calls to Barclaycard  the first to order  the card and 
PIN and the second to unblock  the card after a period of use. As the adjudicator  noted,  the 
caller does appear to be disguising their voice. The caller  was however identified by a series 
of questions, not by voice recognition software, so would have had no reason  to disguise 
Ref: DRN28438832their voice.  On the other hand, had Mr H wanted  to be in a position  to say at some later 
stage that he hadnt  ordered  the card and PIN, he would have had a reason to do so.
On each occasion the caller was able to provide  a significant level of detail about Mr H and 
his family.  Whilst some  of that information  might have been  publicly available, I think its 
unlikely that someone  unknown  to Mr H would  have been able to answer  all the questions  
without arousing  suspicion.  
In addition, the caller  provided Mr Hs mobile  phone number, so Barclaycard could call them 
back. Mr H had his phone at the time,  and it seems unlikely that a fraudster  would have 
provided his number  since  that would run the risk of detection. Mr H subsequently said 
hed left his phone with a repairer and that it had been unlocked  at the time; information 
could, he said, have  been obtained from his phone.  I think its unlikely that this is what 
happened, however. It doesnt explain how any such information  could have found  its way to 
whoever had the card and PIN. 
On balance, therefore, I think the likelihood is that Mr H made both calls. 
I need to consider too how someone could have acquired both Mr Hs card and the PIN 
reminder. I note that  as is usual practice   they were sent separately on different dates to 
Mr Hs address. Even if I took a different view about the phone calls (and someone other 
than Mr H made them and was therefore  expecting  the card and PIN), it would still have  
been difficult to intercept  them both.  I agree with the adjudicator  therefore  that its more  likely 
than not that the card and PIN were safely delivered  to Mr Hs address.
The adjudicator noted too that Mr H had used his mobile banking  app after the first two 
(contactless) payments had been made.  He didnt however raise  any concerns at that time. 
Its possible of course  that he didnt  notice them, but the adjudicator observed too that 
whoever had the card appeared to wait before using  it significantly. That was an indication  
that whoever had it did not appear too concerned that Mr H might find out about  it and have  
it blocked at any time.  
There are a number of inconsistencies  in Mr Hs version of events. The adjudicator  set them  
out in some detail,  and also commented on the pattern of transactions and the opportunities 
Mr H might have  had to identify and alert Barclaycard to the activity  on his account. Of 
themselves, those issues might be explained away, but they are relevant  background.   
For the reasons  Ive explained, however, I think it likely that Mr H ordered the new card and 
PIN reminder and that they were delivered to his address. It follows that either he made the 
disputed transactions  himself or allowed someone  else to do so; either way, it wouldnt  be 
fair to make Barclaycard refund them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything further to resolve 
Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr H to accept  or reject  my decision before  15 September 2019.
Ref: DRN28438833Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2843883