K820x#14Complaint
Mr D complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS)  
unreasonably declined a claim on his legal  expenses insurance policy.
Background
Mr D first contacted DAS about  his claim in December 2018  for advice on how to claim 
compensation from an airline. He said the crew had declined his request to disembark 
before take-off and hadnt  given him the assistance he medically  required  whilst on board. 
He said they accused him of being  disruptive  and caused him to feel alarmed. 
DAS agreed to consider the claim. It asked a firm of solicitors  on its panel to assess  whether 
the claim had reasonable prospects of success, which was a requirement of Mr Ds policy.  
A solicitor at the firm said Mr D was out of time to bring a claim for disability discrimination, 
but even if that wasnt the case,  the claim was unlikely to have been successful. 
DAS relied on this advice  to decline  Mr Ds claim. But he responded to say it had 
misunderstood, and that he wasnt making a claim for disability discrimination. He listed  the 
issues hed experienced during the flight again in an email, and asked DAS to reconsider. 
DAS forwarded  the email  to the solicitor  and asked her to carry out a further  review.  
The solicitor  addressed her response to Mr D. She reiterated that he was out of time to bring 
a disability discrimination claim. So shed investigated whether Mr D could make  a breach of 
contract claim instead. But after considering the relevant  information,  she thought it was 
unlikely this would be successful either.  DAS wrote to Mr D separately to explain that his 
claim remained declined. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ds complaint but didnt uphold  it. He felt the claim had been 
reviewed in line with the terms and conditions  of Mr Ds policy, and that DAS was entitled to 
rely on the solicitors  opinion to decline it. Mr D remained unhappy, so the matter  has been 
passed to me to reach a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding 
Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr Ds policy,  like virtually  all legal  expenses insurance policies, requires a policyholders  
claim to have a reasonable prospect of success.  We dont think  thats unreasonable. Court  
action can be expensive.  A privately paying  customer wouldnt want  to bear the cost of a 
claim if theyd  been told it was unlikely to succeed.  An insurer  cant  be expected  to either.
Where an insurer has declined such a claim,  its not our role to carry out our own review of 
the merits of the underlying claim. I appreciate Mr D feels strongly about his claim, and I can 
see that hes sent us some media articles  which  demonstrate  that other wheelchair users 
have faced challenges with the same airline.  But my role is to decide whether his insurer  has 
acted fairly.  So long as its got advice from a suitably qualified lawyer,  its generally entitled 
to rely on that advice,  unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on mistakes of fact.
Ref: DRN21610352In this case, DAS has relied on the opinion  of a qualified solicitor with relevant experience  in 
the type of claim  she was advising  on. Her opinion was based  on information  about Mr Ds 
claim, including his testimony  and the airlines conditions of carriage, and made  reference  to 
relevant case law and time limits.  Theres nothing that makes  me think there was anything  
obviously wrong with her advice or that it was based on factual errors. Overall,  Im satisfied 
DAS was entitled to rely on it. And I think  DAS did what  Id expect it to have done by 
forwarding Mr Ds additional comments to the solicitor for consideration. 
DAS has confirmed that if Mr D can obtain a more  favourable opinion  from another lawyer it 
will reconsider the claim. Its also said that it would be happy to reimburse  the cost of the 
opinion if it confirms the claim does have reasonable prospects of success.  I think thats fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.  
Mike Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2161035