K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains about advice given by Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) to invest  £150,000 in 
a Barclays Personal  Investment  Portfolio (BPIM).
background
In February 2000,  Mrs C took advice from Barclays to invest £150,000 into a BPIM income  
portfolio. Mrs C surrendered the investment in 2001 and had made  a loss. Mrs C believes 
that Barclays recommendation was unsuitable  for her because the level of risk was too high 
for an inexperienced  first-time investor,  she was advised to invest too much and had little 
capacity for loss. Mrs C also feels that Barclays gave insufficient time for her to reflect  on the 
recommendation made.
Barclays have upheld  the complaint and say that on review they consider £50,000 should 
have been invested in very low risk investments. Had this happened they say the balance of 
the portfolio would have been suitable for Mrs Cs needs. Barclays  have calculated redress  
against the Bank of England fixed rate bonds benchmark plus interest.  Theyve offered 
£16,839.75 plus an additional  £200  for trouble and upset caused by delays.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  He thought the recommendation by Barclays  was 
unsuitable because  Mrs C was exposed to more risk than she wanted to take and was 
advised to invest  too much  given her circumstances. He recommended  assessing  
compensation for the entire amount invested against a benchmark with half the
investment in FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return Index and the other half 
against the average rate from fixed rate bonds. Our investigator  agreed  that £200  was a fair 
and reasonable award for the trouble and upset caused. 
Barclays disagree with the view.  They  maintain their offer is fair and reasonable.
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account Mrs Cs circumstances at the time. Mrs C was inexperienced and a 
first-time investor. She had received £200,000  from a property sale and was looking to invest 
for some income but had limited capacity for loss, given  that she was retired. So, I think  
capital preservation was also important to her. 
Barclays rely upon their definition of medium risk as:
You are a more typical investor, requiring a proportion of your savings  to be in cash form. 
For the remainder of your investment, you are prepared  to see a greater degree of 
fluctuation than the low risk investor, in return for a potentially higher level of long-term  
growth.
I think its unlikely Mrs C wouldve understood the risks her funds were being exposed  to from 
the generic risk definition. And theres  no detail on the fact find to show that this was 
explained to her.
Ref: DRN22244152Barclays say that the income portfolio  was made  up of around 48% equities, 46% bonds 
and 4% cash. In my view this blend of assets exposed Mrs C to more  risk than she was 
willing to take.  Barclays agree  that Mrs C ended up taking too high a level of risk overall and 
should have been advised to take a cautious  risk approach with her investments. And 
Barclays accept they advised Mrs C to invest too much into the portfolio, they now say only 
£100,000 should have  been invested; a substantially lower amount. Taking these factors into 
account, its clear that the advice given to Mrs C was unsuitable. So, its fair and reasonable 
to put things right for Mrs C.
Putting things right
Barclays agree they should compensate Mrs C. Theyve said that £50,000 should have been 
placed in low risk cash-based products  and £100,000 in the high income with safety 
portfolio. Theyve  offered  to compensate  Mrs C on £50,000, using the Bank of England, fixed 
rate bond  index as a comparator, plus 8% interest. Barclays say this effectively realigns the 
portfolio and the investment of the balance of funds in the portfolio was suitable for Mrs C.
Im not satisfied that the offer is fair and reasonable. Barclays suggest artificially  removing a 
third of the investment to try and retrospectively reduce the overall  risk. But theres  no 
persuasive evidence  that Barclays would have  recommended this particular approach  at the 
time. And Im mindful that the equity split of the funds invested would have remained 
relatively high. 
Barclays have also said that holding cash reserves outside the portfolio was an integral part 
of the recommendation. But theres  nothing  to show that this was made clear to Mrs C at the 
time. The documents show  that Mrs C had earmarked some of the cash to be spent.
So, the correct  starting  point is that the recommendation  shouldnt have been made at all. I 
think that if the right advice had been  given,  its likely that Mrs C would have invested 
£150,000 differently.
It is not possible to say precisely what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied
that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given her circumstances and
objectives when  she invested.
So, Barclays  should make  an assessment  in respect  of the whole £150,000 invested:
Compare the performance of Mrs Cs investment with that of the benchmark shown below 
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If the 
actual value is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
They should  also pay interest as set out below.
Provide the details of the calculation in a clear,  simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
BPIM  
Portfoliosurrenderedfor half the 
investment: date of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
Ref: DRN22244153FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsloss from the 
end date to 
date of 
settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  you should  use
the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity as published
by the Bank of England.  The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous
month. Apply those  rates to the investment on an annually compounded  basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the
calculation from that point on.
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if
Barclays total all those  payments and deduct  that figure at the end instead of deducting
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mrs C wanted some income and some  capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital. The FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA 
Stock Market Income  total return index)  is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset  classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds.  It would be a fair 
measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs Cs risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination  would  reasonably put Mrs C into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs C would  have  invested  50% of her money  in a fixed  rate bond  and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
Ref: DRN22244154that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs C could  have  obtained  from investments 
suited to her objective  and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money
since the end date.
In addition to the compensation set above,  Barclays should also pay £200  in compensation
for delays.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding this complaint. I direct  Barclays Bank UK Plc to put 
things right for Mrs C as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2020.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2224415