K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain about the way One Call Insurance Services Limited referred  him 
to a credit  hire company after he asked to make  a claim on his motor  insurance policy.
For ease of reading any reference  to One Call includes  its agents. 
background
Mr Ms wife who is a named driver on his policy had an accident that wasnt her fault.  Mr M 
contacted One Call to make  a claim and was given  the option  of claiming on his policy  or 
using a credit hire company. This is a company who provides a hire car on the basis One 
Calls customer allows them to pursue a claim on their behalf  against the other  drivers  
insurer for the cost of the hire car. They also arrange for the customers car to be repaired by 
one of their approved repairers and claim the cost of these back  from the other drivers 
insurer as well. Mr M decided to use the credit hire company to deal with his claim on his 
behalf. 
Mr M wasnt happy with how the claim was being  handled and referred it to his insurer.  
He also said he was pressured to use the credit hire company. Because  of this Mr M 
complained to One Call who investigated the complaint and didnt uphold it. One Call didnt 
think it had done  anything wrong as it had explained the options to Mr M before referring  him 
to the credit  hire company. 
Mr M didnt  agree, he said he was pressured  into using the credit hire company and told that 
if he did his no claims discount (NCD)  wouldnt be affected. Our Investigator looking into the 
complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld.  She found that One Call had explained the 
options to Mr M, because of this she didnt think hed been pressured  into using the credit 
hire company. 
Mr M didnt  agree and so his complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One Call Insurance  Services is an insurance  broker and arranged Mr Ms policy. But the 
cover is provided by an insurance  company.  I cant consider Mr Ms complaint about the 
claim for damage to his car as this has been dealt  with by the credit  hire company and then 
his insurer. And I cant hold One Call responsible for the actions of those businesses, but I 
can look at the referral One Call made to see if Mr M was pressured into using  the credit hire 
company. 
Ive listened to the call when Mr M was referred  to the credit  hire company, during the call Mr 
Ms told (Ive redacted the names  of the businesses involved for the purpose of this 
decision):
Ref: DRN22101542We are X and we are an Accident Management  Company  who deals with claims on behalf 
of your broker One Call, I can see that you are underwritten by Y, now X would be more than 
happy to look at dealing with your claim on a non-fault basis, this means that you wouldnt 
have to pay your excess, and provided theres  no issues  with liability  a hire car will be 
provided, as all costs will be recovered  back from the other drivers insurance company. Ok? 
Now your other option is to make  a claim through your own insurance, you would get a 
courtesy car if yours  is repairable, its subject to availability and you would have to pay your 
policy excess as well. So which option would you like to proceed through?"
The advisor then goes on to clarify this and explains that if Mr M claimed  on his own policy, 
and his insurer is able to hold the other  party at fault, then his insurer is likely to claim his 
excess back for him at the end of the claim. From listening  to the call Im satisfied  One Call 
explained the differences between the two options to Mr M and asked him which  he would  
prefer to do. I therefore dont agree  he was pressured into using the credit hire company, 
and so it follows I wont be telling  One Call to do anything different. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2021.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2210154