K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) to 
Mr S. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1999.  Lloyds sold Mr S the 
policy at the same time that he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mr S has said he cant remember  the details of what happened,  but he would only have 
taken PPI if hed been  told it was it was a condition of taking the credit  card.  He says the 
burden of proof should be on the bank  to prove  that he signed the agreement voluntarily. 
But I dont agree that would be a fair way to look at disputes such  as this. I dont think  it 
would be fair for me to conclude something happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of this. Where someone  has said another person or organisation has 
done something wrong, fairness requires that the person  making the allegation should 
present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to 
prove they didnt  do something,  especially when it was such  a long time ago. 
I realise it would  be almost impossible for Mr S to present such evidence.  But it wouldnt be 
fair to say that, because in some circumstances banks  mis-sold PPI in the way Mr S has 
said, it was always guilty of this. And I can see that, on the application form, the PPI is at 
least set out as a choice,  and there  is a tick applying for PPI, and Mr S signed the form. 
So overall, without  stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mr Ss real 
consent.
Mr S has said that complaints he made,  about PPI on other cases,  have been  upheld by the 
bank; and he doesnt understand why his complaint on this case  hasnt also.  I dont know  the 
details of those  cases, and I have only the evidence relevant  to this particular complaint. 
However, I do know that there can be a number of different reasons complaints are upheld.  
Sometimes this is because of the known processes at the particular time the PPI was sold.  
Ive looked at other possible ways in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. But I dont 
think these apply:
Lloyds probably  recommended  the PPI to Mr S, which means  it had to make  sure it 
was suitable for his individual  circumstances. But it doesnt look as if it was 
Ref: DRN28756452unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The PPI could 
have helped pay the credit card bill for a period longer than Mr Ss employer sick pay 
and other  resources probably  would have lasted. And it would have paid out at the 
same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mr S more financially 
secure for longer. It would  have  meant  Mr S wouldnt need  to fall back on other 
resources so soon.  So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks  like the 
PPI was affordable.  And I cant see any other reason why the recommendation was 
unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Lloyds explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Lloyds  gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But I dont think, given that the PPI was potentially  useful  in his circumstances, full 
information about costs and benefits would have affected whether he took the PPI. 
And it doesnt look like hed have been  affected by any of the significant exclusions in 
the policy. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, and so 
Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2875645