K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Leeds Building Society didnt clearly explain the early 
repayment charge  (ERC) owed  if they sold their property before the mortgage product 
ended. They want the ERC refunded.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with Leeds, which  if repaid early  would mean  theyd have 
to pay an ERC. Mr and Mrs D sold their property and paid the ERC, but said that Leeds 
hadnt clearly explained  to them that in such circumstances, the ERC would be payable.  
Mr and Mrs D said that Mr D was told in August 2018 and January  2019 that if a new product  
was taken out, the ERC wouldnt apply, and that it wasnt made clear that this waiver only 
applied if a new mortgage was taken out within six months of the first one being repaid. They  
said that the property was on the market at the time they took out a new mortgage  product in 
2018, and Leeds knew this and about  their divorce.
Mr and Mrs D complained  to Leeds.  It said that Mr and Mrs D were told about when the ERC  
would be charged  and about how transferring (porting) the interest rate to another  property  
worked. Leeds also said that Mr and Mrs D took out the new product through a broker,  and 
said its staff hadnt  given incorrect information about the ERC. It noted that it was the 
brokers role to check the product was suitable for Mr and Mrs D, and that the offer set out 
the ERC  and when  it would be payable. It paid £200  compensation for the trouble and upset  
caused by the fact that Leeds  couldnt find two calls between it and Mr D.
Mr and Mrs D complained  to us. The adjudicators view was that Leeds wasnt  at fault. He 
said hed listened  to all the available calls and there wasnt any evidence  supporting  Mr Ds 
belief that Leeds failed  to properly explain to him when  the ERC would be charged.  The 
adjudicator pointed out that it was the brokers role to go through the new product with 
Mr and Mrs D and check that it was suitable, and that the offer accepted  by them  made it 
clear that the ERC would be charged  if the property was sold before the product ended. He 
also said the £200 paid was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed.  Mr D thought that it was convenient that Leeds couldnt find all the 
calls in its system.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt my role to punish  businesses for making  a mistake;  my role is to put consumers  back  
into the position that they shouldve been  in if the mistake hadnt been  made  in the first 
place. Mr D says that the new product was only taken out because  he believed  the ERC 
wouldnt be payable if the property was sold, and that Leeds didnt make  it clear enough that 
the charge would only be waived if a new mortgage was taken out within  six months of the 
old one ending.
Ref: DRN25378472But the evidence  available to me doesnt support Mr Ds position. In the calls and notes 
available, the position about  the ERC wasnt incorrectly  explained.  And if Leeds was aware 
of the property being on the market and the divorce, I think  its very unlikely it wouldve told 
Mr and Mrs D to proceed with taking a new product. The evidence  doesnt show that taking 
out a new product was discussed  in detail between Mr D and Leeds  it does show  that 
Mr and Mrs D were advised by a broker.
Its the brokers role to go through the terms of the new product and explain it to 
Mr and Mrs D, as well as check that it was suitable. A broker should know  that the divorce 
and sale of the property were  very relevant issues and likely  to influence a lenders decision 
to lend, as well as whether  the product was suitable  in the first place.  Im not dealing with a 
complaint against  the broker, but its involvement  means Leeds  isnt responsible for checking 
the product was suitable.
And the offer makes  it clear that the ERC  is due if the mortgage is repaid while the product is 
in place, unless  the product is ported to a new property. Mr and Mrs D accepted this offer. I 
think that Leeds did clearly explain the ERC  within that offer,  and its the brokers  role to 
ensure Mr and Mrs D understood the terms and conditions.
Leeds has paid £200 compensation as it hasnt  been able to locate two calls. I think  that this 
is more than fair and reasonable  in the circumstances, particularly given the involvement of a 
broker and the wording of the offer accepted  by Mr and Mrs D.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision 
before 9 November  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2537847