K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains about the way Amtrust Europe  Limited handled a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance  policy.
Where I refer to Amtrust,  this includes its agents and claims handlers.
Background
Mr B has a legal expenses insurance policy  underwritten by Amtrust, which  gives  him 
access to a legal helpline. He contacted the helpline  for advice about a dispute  with the 
operator of a mobile home park about the gas supply to his lodge. Mr B said he wanted 
some advice on his legal position  and for a solicitor to write  a letter to the operator, after it 
threatened to withdraw park services.  
Mr B was told the helpline  only provided  general advice, so couldnt provide what  he wanted,  
but he could submit a claim to see if he was eligible for legal representation under the policy.
Amtrust said it was concerned the issues Mr B was experiencing had started before he took 
out his policy;  there  was information indicating hed experienced problems with the lodge  
since he bought  it in September 2016.  And the policy doesnt cover a claim if the events 
leading to it occurred  before the policy started. But as there were a number of issues,  and 
some had started more  recently, Amtrust said it was prepared to consider whether cover 
was available  for anything.
Amtrust passed the case to one of its panel  firms of solicitors to carry out a legal 
assessment. 
Mr B wasnt  happy with the way the claim was considered. In particular, he said the solicitors 
asked him to sign a form of authority  giving  them permission to pursue  his case. He said at 
that point they only needed to give advice on whether he had a valid claim and he didnt 
want to give authority for them  to pursue it.  
The solicitors said they couldnt continue as Mr B hadnt signed  the form, and had expressed 
concerns about  how they were dealing with the claim. Amtrust then instructed a second firm 
of solicitors, who obtained an opinion from a barrister. The advice was that some  of the 
issues raised were not covered as they had happened before the policy started and some 
had less than a 50% chance of success.  There was one issue  that was potentially covered 
but the costs of pursuing it meant it would not be proportionate  to pursue.
On the basis of that advice Amtrust  said it wouldnt cover Mr Bs claim.  
Mr B complained that Amtrust had taken too long to deal with his claim and said his legal 
position may have  been prejudiced by the delay.  
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She said it was reasonable for 
Amtrust to rely on the barristers legal  advice. She didnt think  it was necessary to insist that 
Mr B sign the form of authority before the panel  solicitors considered the claim. But she said 
the solicitors had asked  for more evidence from Mr B, which  he didnt provide, and the legal 
assessment couldnt  be done until he provided  that. So she didnt think the delay was solely  
down to Amtrusts actions.
Ref: DRN26787662Mr B disagrees with the investigator and has requested  an ombudsmans decision.  He says 
Amtrust took too long to deal with his claim and this meant  he ended up having to deal with 
the legal  dispute himself.  
After reviewing the complaint I explained that in general I agreed with the investigators  view; 
I thought it was fair to rely on the legal advice and refuse cover  on that basis. But I thought 
the legal  advice could have been  obtained  more quickly and the delay had caused some 
distress and inconvenience for Mr B. So it might be fair to pay some compensation for that. 
Amtrust didnt agree  it was at fault or should pay compensation. Mr B said he would accept 
the proposed  compensation  if Amtrust accepted it was at fault and apologised,  otherwise he 
would await my decision. So I need  to make a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy  provides cover for legal costs  for certain types of legal disputes. The policy  
terms say theres only cover if the insured event happens while the policy  is in force;  theres 
no cover  if the events leading to the claim took place before the policy started. And the terms 
say a claim must have  prospects of success. This means it must be more likely than not that 
the policyholder  will win their case,  and the likely costs  should be in proportion to the value 
of the claim. 
Terms like this are not unusual  the intention is generally to insure against the risk of 
something happening in the future. And it wouldnt  be fair to expect insurers  to meet costs 
for claims  that are unlikely to be successful, or where the costs  are too high compared to the 
value of the claim. 
I would expect an insurer to get legal advice  before  deciding whether a claim has reasonable 
prospects. And the insurer is entitled  to rely on that advice, unless its obviously wrong. 
Amtrust got advice from a barrister, who said some issues had started before Mr B took out 
his policy  and although he could pursue those himself if he wanted to, he was unlikely to win. 
He advised that the dispute  about  the gas supply was potentially  covered by the policy  but 
any damages Mr B might get would be less than the costs of pursuing the case,  so it 
wouldnt be proportionate.
I think it was reasonable  for Amtrust to rely on the barristers advice and, based on that 
advice, refuse cover  for Mr Bs claim. But I think it took long to deal with this.
The solicitors asked  Mr B to sign a consent form before going ahead. He was concerned  
about this because, if he signed the form, he thought he would be giving the solicitors  
authority to pursue his claim. 
Amtrust doesnt agree that it did anything  wrong or should be penalised for the fact that Mr B 
didnt sign the form of authority  it couldnt interfere with the solicitors  process.  
I appreciate that an insurer  doesnt  control  the actions of a firm of solicitors. But I think  it 
comes down to what the solicitors were being asked  to do. They  were  being asked to advise 
Amtrust on whether the claim should  be covered.  So they werent  instructed to act for Mr B  
indeed, they couldnt be unless and until it was established that he was entitled to cover.  So 
Ref: DRN26787663Amtrust could have asked  them to advise  on the information available.  And that is what 
eventually happened. I note also that Amtrust wrote to Mr B explaining that the advice was 
for its benefit, to allow it to make a decision on whether his claim was covered under the 
policy terms. So its not clear why Amtrust couldnt have done that in the first place, or why a 
form of authority would  have been  needed.  
And its not clear to me that further information was needed from Mr B to give that opinion. I 
cant see that the solicitors were  awaiting further evidence from him, and in later 
correspondence, the first panel solicitors advised  the second  firm that he hadnt provided 
further information.
There was a delay  of around  a month  from when  the issue was disputed  by Mr B until 
Amtrust decided to instruct a different firm of solicitors. Mr B was corresponding with Amtrust 
during that period, disputing the approach taken. This would have been  upsetting  at a time 
when he was deciding  how to deal with his legal dispute. And it could  have been  avoided. I 
think it would  be reasonable to compensate him for this delay  and the trouble he was put to. 
In my judgment a payment of £100  would be fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct Amtrust Europe Limited to 
pay Mr B compensation of £100 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019. 
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2678766