K821x#15complaint
Mr Fs complained that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC refused to pay his 
mechanical breakdown  insurance policy claim.  
background
Mr F took his car to the garage after noticing a noise from the suspension area.  His garage  
told Amtrust  that the front suspension arms had dried out and the bolts  seized up. 
Amtrust turned down  Mr Fs claim because the damage didnt meet  the definition  of sudden 
mechanical breakdown  as defined in the policy.  It said the bolts  had seized and the bush 
had dried out. It said these parts  werent mechanical or electrical and so werent covered by 
the policy.
Mr F brought  his complaint to us. He said the suspension arm was covered and the bush  
and bolts were part of the suspension arm  which was one assembly. He said the bush 
couldnt have  dried out and the bolt only holds  the assembly and doesnt  impact its function. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Fs complaint be upheld.  She thought the damage 
met the definition of sudden mechanical  breakdown and that Amtrust hadnt showed that the 
bolts could be bought separately. So, thought Amtrust should  pay Mr Fs claim as well as 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused. 
Amtrust didnt agree  and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It still didnt think  the failure 
met the definition of mechanical breakdown. And it added  that the issue had occurred 
gradually.
Mr F told us that due to Amtrust not repairing his car, he lost faith in the warranty and its 
ability to repair his car. So, he ultimately  returned his unrepaired car to the dealer  and 
acquired a cheaper  one, leaving him with negative  equity  on his finance agreement.  
As Mr F didnt have repairs carried out  and no longer owned his car  I told both Mr F and 
Amtrust that I intended to require Amtrust to pay Mr F £500  compensation for his distress  
and inconvenience.  Mr F accepted  this however Amtrust didnt agree. It thought  it was odd 
that Mr F would have traded in his car leaving him in negative equity and asked if Id seen 
proof of this. It also thought £500 was excessive in the circumstances. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs policy covers  him for the mechanical  breakdown of covered parts.  Suspension arms 
are listed  as covered  parts. 
The policy defines  mechanical breakdown as the sudden  and unforeseen failure of a 
component arising  from any permanent  mechanical  or electrical  defect, (for a reason other  
than wear or tear, normal deterioration  or negligence) causing  a sudden stoppage of its 
function, necessitating immediate repair or replacement of the component before normal  
operation can be resumed.
Ref: DRN24079412I can see from Amtrusts  claim note that the garage  said the front suspension  arm had dried 
out and the bolt had seized. Amtrust  said these  components are separate  to the suspension  
arms and bushes  can be replaced separately. It also said these parts  arent excluded under  
the policy but arent covered because  theyre not specifically  named.
It might be that the parts can be bought and replaced separately if needed. But if only the 
bolt or bush needed replacing then I think this is what the garage would have done. 
However, it didnt, and it told Mr F the suspension arm needed replacing. As suspension 
arms are covered by the policy and thats  what needed replacing, Im not persuaded that its 
fair and reasonable for Amtrust to have  turned down Mr Fs claim on the basis that a 
component within the arm isnt named  as being a covered  part. 
Amtrust also said that neither the bolt nor the bush  are mechanical or electrical parts.  But Im 
satisfied theyre part of the suspension arm which is a mechanical arm. And the suspension  
arm has experienced mechanical  failure.  
Amtrust has also said the failure wasnt sudden.  But I havent seen anything to show  the 
failure happened gradually.  When  applying  the ordinary every day meaning of the word 
seized, Im satisfied it means  to have stopped working as it was making  a noise and needed 
replacing. Mr F said he took his car to the garage  when he noticed a knocking  noise and 
while any part will wear  over time, Im persuaded that at the point it failed it was sudden and 
unexpected. And it also needed immediate repair for the car to function normally again. 
For the reasons  Ive set out above  Im persuaded that the damage meets the definition  of 
sudden mechanical  breakdown. So, I dont  think it was fair and reasonable for Amtrust to 
have turned down  the claim.  
If Mr F still had his car, Id have told Amtrust  to pay his claim for repairs.  However,  I cant  do 
that as the car isnt there  to be repaired. I havent  seen proof that Mr F sold his car or is in 
negative equity with the finance,  but Im persuaded by what  hes told me. Amtrusts notes 
suggest the repairs would have cost around £350 and our adjudicator recommended 
Amtrust pay an additional £200  in compensation. So, I dont think theres  any financial 
benefit to Mr F in telling  us hes sold his car if he hadnt.
Im also not awarding  Mr F compensation for any financial loss caused by selling his car as 
that was ultimately  his choice rather than deciding to pay for the repair  himself.  So, I dont 
need to see proof of the negative equity.  I do however accept that Amtrust  turning down     
Mr Fs claim caused  him distress and inconvenience  as he had to drive a car that needed 
repairing for a number of months and felt unsafe. He also felt that the warranty  hed bought 
wouldnt provide  the level of cover  hed expected to enable him to confidently keep his car 
and this ultimately contributed to him selling it. I accept this and for those reasons I remain  
satisfied that £500  is a fair and reasonable amount for Amtrust to pay Mr F for the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused  him.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Amtrust International 
Underwriters DAC to pay Mr F £500  compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
It should pay this within 28 days of us telling it Mr Fs accepted  my final decision. If it pays  
later than this, it should add interest  to the compensation at 8% simple  from the date of my 
decision to the date it makes payment1. 
Ref: DRN24079413Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
1 If Amtrust  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that
interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a certificate showing  this
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2407941