K821x#15complaint
Mr J says Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc (trading as Bristol & West) mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr J was sold the PPI policy when he applied for a mortgage in 1998. He paid a monthly 
premium for it.
Among other  things, Mr J says he was self-employed at the time and so he doesnt think  the 
PPI was suitable for him.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Js complaint agreed and upheld  his complaint. Bank of 
Ireland disagrees  and so Mr Js complaint  has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
Bank of Ireland  says it recommended the PPI to Mr J, so it needed  to make sure it was right 
for him. From what Ive seen, I dont think it was. Mr Js mortgage  application  shows he was 
self-employed at the time he was sold the PPI. And the policy  Mr J was sold said he wouldnt 
be covered for unemployment unless this was due to the involuntary financial insolvency  of 
his business and hed given notice  to the Inland  Revenue that hed ceased trading. 
I think this term was onerous for Mr J. It effectively meant his business wouldve  had to fail 
before he could make a successful unemployment claim. So I think  making a claim is likely 
to have been more difficult than he wouldve expected.  And I think  Bank  of Ireland shouldve 
advised him of this. But I cant see it did.
I can see that, as part of Mr Js mortgage needs analysis, Bank of Irelands adviser notes   
Mr J had nothing in place  to pay his mortgage  if his business folded. But I cant see the 
adviser explained what would have to happen to Mr Js business under the policy terms for 
him to be able to make  a successful unemployment  claim. If the adviser  had given Mr J 
better advice, I dont think he wouldve gone ahead  with cover that it wouldve been difficult 
for him to claim on successfully for unemployment.
It follows that I think Mr J has lost out because of what Bank of Ireland has done wrong and 
so it should put things  right.
putting things right
Bank of Ireland  should put Mr J in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Bank of Ireland should:
Pay Mr J the amount he paid each month for the PPI; and
Ref: DRN22966312Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Bank of Ireland can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him. And if Bank of Ireland has refunded Mr J an 
amount in respect of commission or profit  share, it can take this off what it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Bank of Ireland to take off tax from this interest.  Bank of Ireland 
must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc to 
put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2296631