K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  that was added  to her 
credit card account by Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds).
background
Miss C successfully applied for a credit card with Lloyds  in April 1999. 
When looking at the very limited information  (I have  not been able to see any original sales 
documentation or read a detailed recollection  of how the PPI was sold), I cant be sure of 
when or how PPI was sold. I have  seen records that go back  to January 2000  and the PPI is 
on the account at this stage. So I cannot be sure how or when the PPI was sold to Miss C 
but I do know it was sold at some point  between April 1999 and January 2000.
The PPI that was sold to Miss C was designed to protect her monthly card repayments  if she 
wasnt working because  of accident,  sickness, unemployment or redundancy.
Miss C says Lloyds mis-sold the policy. She says she didnt know it had been  added to her 
card. 
Lloyds has offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill for the way it has handled her complaint 
and Miss C has accepted  this. So because  both parties have made  an agreement,  I have not 
looked into the issues raised by Miss C about this any further. I have instead looked into 
Miss Cs complaint that she has been mis-sold PPI.
One of my colleagues  looked into Miss Cs complaint  and didnt think  it should be upheld.      
Miss C disagrees and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Cs case. 
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Cs complaint for the following reasons:
As I have already  mentioned  neither  Miss C nor Lloyds can give me much 
information about the sale. This is not surprising given  the amount of time thats 
passed. Ive looked  at what Miss C has said about how the policy was sold  that it 
was added without  her knowledge. But it has been very difficult for me to understand  
how this would have  happened with so little information available  about this sale. And 
in the absence of relevant documentation,  a more detailed recollection  or further 
information to support  what Miss C has said, I cannot fairly conclude  on this occasion 
that the policy was sold as she suggests it was. I would need  to see more  information 
to support what Miss C has said to conclude otherwise. 
I cant be sure if Lloyds gave a recommendation to Miss C to have the policy  but 
even if it did recommend the PPI, I think it was suitable for her anyway. Any claim 
under the policy  more  likely could be paid for up to 12 months.  Miss C would have 
found the benefit from the cover provided  useful in an extended time of need (on top 
Ref: DRN27090612of her 6-12 months sick pay). Miss C also wasnt adversely affected by any of the 
policys main exclusions.  The policy also seemed  affordable  for Miss C.
I cant see that Lloyds  explained about  the policys main terms as clearly as it 
shouldve done. But for the same reasons as the policy  was suitable, I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference  to Miss Cs decision to buy the policy.
It has been very difficult for me to get an understanding as to what happened during  this sale 
due to the lack of information available. That said and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont  
uphold Miss Cs complaint.
my final decision
For the above reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2709061