K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that he was mis-sold an annuity by LEBC, an appointed representative of 
TenetConnect Limited, T/A TenetConnect. He says other pension options,  such as 
drawdown, were not discussed. He says drawdown  would have been  a more suitable  
alternative for his circumstances.
background
Mr K was a deferred member of a contracted out final salary pension scheme. The scheme  
wrote to Mr K in January 2016 regarding the options  he had in relation  to his benefits. LEBC, 
who Ill refer to from now on as TenetConnect in this decision,  was appointed by the scheme 
to assist in providing  Mr K with financial advice. Mr K received a number of Cash Equivalent 
Transfer values (CETV)  from the scheme,  but the final (highest) one of around £356,000 
gave a deadline of January 2017 to complete the transfer.
TenetConnect met with Mr K and determined that he was a cautious investor and was 
prepared to take little risk. TenetConnect completed a living in retirement questionnaire 
which confirmed that Mr K expressed a preference to guarantee he could meet  his future  
essential spending when determining what pension option he should take. Mr K was advised  
to take out an enhanced annuity which provided  an annual pension  of £14,831 after hed 
received his tax free lump  sum of £89,831. In January  2017  Mr K requested  a further 
£40,000 from his plan so that he could purchase a property. This meant his residual annuity 
was reduced to £12,686.28 per annum. The annuity  was set up shortly afterwards
Around the same time Mr K complained to TenetConnect that it hadnt discussed  any 
alternatives to an annuity with him. He said if he could have taken some extra capital from 
his benefits he could have purchased a small property for himself, which would have saved  
him paying rent going forward. He said he didnt think  he would live long enough to enjoy the 
benefits of the annuity and wouldnt be able to leave  anything  for his children after he died. 
He said a drawdown plan would have  given him the flexibility  he needed and allowed him to 
pass any remaining funds onto his family.
 
TenetConnect didnt  uphold  Mr Ks complaint. It said that alternatives  were discussed  but 
were discounted  due to his Mr Ks circumstances. It maintained that, based on Mr Ks 
objectives and situation at the time, an annuity  was suitable especially as Mr K ultimately 
obtained an enhanced annuity  due to his ill health.
But Mr K didnt agree so he brought his complaint to us, where one of our adjudicators 
looked into the matter. He said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said the comparison of 
benefits from the scheme against those from a personal pension  or annuity, through  a 
Transfer Value  Analysis  report (TVAS), showed that a transfer appeared to be suitable. 
He also thought Mr K was presented  with alternative options to an annuity, but based on his 
attitude to risk the adjudicator thought it was reasonable for those options to be discounted 
and that the advice to take an annuity was suitable.  
Mr K didnt agree. He said we hadnt  taken  his evidence into consideration, particularly his 
statement that TenetConnect told him he couldnt take his pension  through  a drawdown plan 
when he first met with the adviser. 
Subsequently another adjudicator reached  the same  conclusion based broadly on the same 
reasoning. He said that, from the information hed seen, the drawdown option was discussed 
Ref: DRN23863702with Mr K, however it was discounted  due to it not meeting  his objectives and it not being 
suitable for his circumstances.  The adjudicator referred to the suitability report which stated  
that Mr K would prefer the security of a guaranteed income for life.
Mr K still didnt  agree and as no resolution could  be found the complaints been passed  to 
me for a review. Mr K wanted to confirm his main complaint points which  he said were that:
TenetConnect had told him that it could  stop him taking his pension  early if it didnt 
think this was the right thing to do. But he has since discovered this wasnt correct 
and he could have  taken his pension early,  through drawdown, if wished to do so.
The only pension options which were  discussed were annuities.  Every time he 
mentioned drawdown he was told it wasnt  appropriate for him. 
He would need to live for another 20 years to get a return of the money  he used to 
purchase an annuity. But, because of his health worries, he doesnt believe that will 
happen and he thinks it would  have been more appropriate for him to be able to 
drawdown from a fully accessible capital sum. 
He could have  bought  his own property if hed been able to access more  funds from 
a drawdown plan. And he could  have left any remaining  funds to his family which he 
now cant do with his annuity.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see how strongly Mr K feels about  
this matter and I have some sympathy  for the position he finds himself in. I was also sorry to 
learn that Mr K is suffering from ill health  which he says has worsened because of this 
matter, so Id like to reassure Mr K that Ive carefully considered all of the points hes made 
to us when coming  to my decision.
But, having  done so, I agree with the previous adjudicators views and for broadly the same  
reasons. I realise Mr K will be disappointed  with this outcome  so Ill explain my reasons. 
Mr K says he was told by TenetConnect that he couldnt take his pension early when he 
asked, and that hes subsequently found  out this wasnt correct. He says this is important  
because he could have  used a drawdown plan to achieve his objectives if hed been  allowed 
to do so. He also thinks drawdown was more  suited to his circumstances and should have 
been discussed but he says it wasnt mentioned  as an alternative to an annuity.
TenetConnect however says it discussed  all the relevant alternatives with Mr K and that they 
were discounted  in favour of an annuity.  It says Mr K was a cautious investor and therefore 
an annuity was more suitable for him.
So what  Im left to consider is simply whether Mr K was made aware  of the alternatives   
including drawdown   and whether the advice to take out an annuity was suitable.
Whether drawdown was discussed?
Mr K says he told TenetConnect  through two different  advisers, that he wanted  to consider 
drawdown as an option  with his CETV.  He says this would have been more  suitable for him. 
But he says TenetConnect told him he could only take my pension  early if I could prove  to 
them that I would not waste the money and he could  stop me taking it early if he did not 
agree with it.
Ref: DRN23863703Mr K has been consistent in saying this in his submissions  and I have no reason to doubt 
what he says or to dispute it. Unfortunately,  theres  no record  of these conversations or any 
transcript of what might have been discussed, but I think the fact that Mr K says he was told 
he could only take his pension early if he could  prove he wouldnt waste  the money,  would 
suggest that drawdown was discussed in order  for TenetConnect to give him that answer.  
So, I think on balance that drawdown was discussed  and considered as an alternative. 
Ive also seen the reference TenetConnect  made  to the alternatives  including drawdown  
within its suitability report. One section, headlined  drawdown  said In our discussions of 
the various options available to you for taking pension  benefits.  After considering all of your 
options, you explained that you do not wish to risk the value of your pension and we agreed  
that your capacity for loss is low. As such we discounted any solution  where  you could suffer  
loss of value due to investment performance.
And under  options discounted the report confirmed  You could consider Drawdown, a 
Fixed Term  Annuity or an Invested  Annuity as an alternative  to a conventional annuity.  
These routes have  been discounted  for the following  reasons: 
The risks involved  in these options are above  your stated attitude to risk.
You would  prefer the security of a guaranteed income for life. 
The pension  reforms brought into force  on 6 April 2015, allow individuals  unlimited access  to 
their pension funds  through  a Flexi-access Drawdown arrangement.  We have discounted 
this option on the basis that you need and require  a regular guaranteed income for life.
So I think the report, which Ive not seen Mr K suggest he didnt receive,  did confirm the 
alternative solutions that might have been  available to him. And I think  these options were 
discussed as TenetConnect  gave reasons for them  to have been discounted. So I think, on 
balance, that Mr K was made aware  that drawdown  was an option, but that it wasnt 
considered as TenetConnect didnt believe it was a suitable recommendation based on his 
circumstances at the time.  
 
But Mr K has gone  further in his complaint as hes said that TenetConnect said it could stop 
him having a drawdown plan if it didnt agree with such as course of action. I havent seen 
any evidence to confirm  that TenetConnect did make such  a statement, although as Ive said 
I dont dispute  what Mr K has told us. And I fully understand his frustration because  if he felt 
TenetConnect, as his adviser here, said he couldnt  have a drawdown plan I can see why he 
might have assumed  that to be the case.  
But Mr K says he did speak to a number of other  advisers before the transfer was completed 
and he was made aware by them that drawdown was a valid alternative  which  he could 
consider. I know Mr K says TenetConnect  continued  to suggest an annuity was his only 
option, but based on what he was told and had researched himself, I would have expected 
him to have  either taken further advice  elsewhere or confirmed with his scheme  
administrator whether  he was eligible for a drawdown plan. 
In the end Mr K says he was so in need of funds that he had to accept the annuity  offer 
before it expired. And I think  its reasonable for him to have taken that approach  considering 
his circumstances.  But Mr K could have extended the process by requesting a new CETV  if 
he so wished, which would have given him the time to consider  his alternatives more  fully. 
Ref: DRN23863704There may have been a danger of the value falling if hed done that, although Ive taken into 
account that the CETV he used had already  increased significantly from the first figure he 
received. 
But Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me that TenetConnect didnt make  Mr K aware 
of the drawdown  option and I think it did discuss it with him to some degree before  it was 
discounted. And while I dont dispute what Mr K says he was told, I think its likely 
TenetConnect simply reiterated its position  that it wasnt  prepared to recommend  a 
drawdown plan because it didnt think it was in his best interests.  
In those circumstances its unlikely Mr K would have been able to take out a drawdown plan 
with TenetConnect  and would have had to go elsewhere if he wished  to follow  that course of 
action. I havent  seen any evidence to suggest  that Mr K wasnt allowed to seek  (and accept) 
advice from elsewhere  and theres  no evidence to show that he was considering taking up 
an alternative recommendation  either.  So, as Im of the view that Mr K was likely to accept 
TenetConnects advice,  particularly  with the impending deadline and his lack of funds, I cant  
safely say he would  been able to take out a drawdown plan anyway because TenetConnect 
didnt believe it was a suitable recommendation for him and were  unlikely  to have made  an 
application on his behalf. 
So, Ive also gone  onto to consider the suitability  of TenetConnects advice.
Was the annuity a suitable recommendation?
When Mr K met with TenetConnect in June 2016  the flexible retirement options 
questionnaire that was completed  confirmed  that he had no income  apart from jobseekers 
allowance of less than £4,000 per annum  and his savings  had depleted  to less than 
£2,000. He also wanted to buy a property through a shared ownership scheme to ensure he 
didnt have to face the possibility of ever being  evicted from his rental  property as he got 
older.
So its clear Mr K needed a lump  sum and income, but theres  no evidence that he had other 
ways of achieving  this. Mr K said in his complaint to TenetConnect that recently  he had to 
borrow some  money, which he hadnt needed  to do before.  So  I think  it was reasonable to 
consider achieving his objectives by accessing his scheme pension  especially as 
TenetConnect was able to give him discounted advice due to it being  appointed  by the 
scheme to provide independent advice  to its members, solely in relation to their pension  
options. 
And looking at the information Tenet  Connect gathered about Mr Ks situation, I can see it 
established that Mr K didnt want to consider drawdown, investment linked annuities  or 
temporary annuities  because he wanted  to receive a guaranteed income in retirement and 
wanted to maximise the income payable to self and does not consider death benefits 
important. 
His attitude to risk was described as conservative  and also cautious. Its not clear why there  
were two entries here although the suggestion  was that TenetConnect  updated Mr Ks 
original answers later in the process,  and the suitability report  referred  to Mr K having a 
cautious attitude to risk. But, in any case it would seem it was agreed that Mr K didnt want  to 
take much  risk, if any, with his pension fund.  
Ref: DRN23863705And these  objectives  were also confirmed in a suitability report  sent to Mr K in 
November 2016.  It stated You expressed a preference  for a secure lifetime pension  income  
from your (scheme) pension.  In our discussions  of the various options available to you for 
taking pension benefits, we agreed to consider two types of annuity to compare against the 
benefits being offered by your existing  pension . 
Ive also taken into account that Mr K was able to secure an enhanced annuity based  on his 
ill health and certain lifestyle  factors. It was also noted that his ill health was preventing  him 
from carrying on with his normal  career as an engineer, which I dont think  was a situation 
that was likely to have improved. So I think its quite likely that Mr K wouldnt have been able 
to improve his income situation and would have been relying on (inadequate)  benefits to 
meet his everyday expenditure.
So, based  on the information  that TenetConnect gathered, I think  it was reasonable for it to 
advise Mr K to take out an enhanced annuity  after drawing the maximum tax free cash  
allowable. Indeed the flexibility  of the annuity  allowed Mr K to draw a further  taxable  lump 
sum to fund his property  purchase when it became clear he would need further capital. And 
the key features document  of the pension plan itself said that its aims, amongst others, were 
to pay you a secure income that is guaranteed for life and to provide  a higher income than 
a standard annuity based on your personal,  health  and lifestyle  information. In my view 
these aims  were consistent  with what TenetConnect had established as being Mr Ks 
objectives. 
I would have expected TenetConnect to undertake  a fact finding exercise to ascertain Mr Ks 
personal and financial  circumstances so that it could make a suitable recommendation 
based on the information. I think TenetConnect  did that here, and I dont think  its advice was 
unsuitable. Of course its possible that other  recommendations might also have proved 
suitable, especially  with the benefit  of hindsight. But I dont think  that means the advice  to 
take out an annuity was unsuitable,  based  on the information Ive seen.
And Mr K seemed to ratify  that the annuity, with a larger capital sum paid to him, was 
appropriate in his email of 31 January 2017, which said I have signed forms and posted 
them to you (recorded) today 30th January, I would like you to finalize pension as discussed 
and I would like to have  the 40k option.  I have worked out net pay allowing for tax and N.I. 
and I still have enough to pay all bills. 
 
summary
Mr K says TenetConnect  said it would stop him taking his benefits through a drawdown plan 
if it didnt agree with that particular course  of action. He says it didnt listen  to him and, 
ignored any alternatives to an annuity in discussions. He says this means hes now got an 
unsuitable product  for his circumstances.
But, from what Ive seen,  I think TenetConnect did make Mr K aware of the alternatives  
including drawdown   but its recommendation was for an enhanced annuity. And looking at 
the reasons it gave  for its recommendation and the information it gathered  about  Mr Ks 
situation at the time, I dont think that advice was unsuitable. So Im not going to ask 
TenetConnect to do anything here as I think it treated Mr K fairly.
Ref: DRN23863706my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2386370