K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr A says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
The PPI was added to Mr As credit  card when he took out the card. NatWest no longer has 
copies of the paperwork Mr A signed at the meeting  to take the card. But from what we know  
of the application forms in use at the time, I think its likely Mr As form gave  an option to 
indicate whether  the PPI was wanted. This makes  me think that its likely NatWest  made  it 
clear Mr A didnt have to take the PPI  and that NatWest added  the PPI because on Mr As 
application form there was an indication that the PPI was wanted.
Mr A says this didnt happen in his case.  He says he didnt agree to the PPI and he wasnt  
aware it was being added. But the sale took place more than fifteen years ago. So I wouldnt 
expect Mr A to remember all the details vividly. With this in mind  Mr As recollections  arent,  
on their own, enough  to make me think NatWest added the PPI to Mr As card without asking 
or telling him. And I havent seen anything else to make me think  NatWest  did this.
So, on balance and based  on what I have, I think its likely NatWest  made  it clear  that Mr A 
didnt have to take the PPI. And I think it was added to Mr As account because  he chose to 
take it. But I can understand  why he might not remember this now, given how long ago it 
was that he took out his card.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A so it didnt have to check the PPI was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr A got the information he needed to decide  if the PPI 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think its likely he chose to take it - so it looks  to me like Mr A wanted this type of 
cover. From  what hes told us, if Mr A was too sick to work his work pay would halve after six 
months. For a successful sickness or unemployment  claim the PPI would pay out for longer - 
up to twelve months. The benefit would be paid on top of Mr As work benefits. And Mr A has 
told us he didnt have  savings or anything  else to help pay his credit  card if he lost his job or 
was too sick to work.
Also, from what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like Mr A was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so the cover  would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have 
changed Mr As decision  to take the cover.
Ref: DRN28035612What Ive said above means NatWest doesnt have  to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr A. But NatWest will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because:
When the policy was sold,  NatWest expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr A about that. 
Because NatWest  didnt  tell Mr A, that was unfair.
To put that right, NatWest has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about all Mr As points, including what hes said about being  healthy at the time 
and in secure, skilled employment. But Mr A couldve still suffered a loss of income due to 
unemployment or ill-health. So, bearing  in mind everything Ive already said above, these 
points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
NatWest has to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. NatWest should also pay back  to Mr A any extra interest Mr A paid 
because of that.
NatWest should  re-work  the credit  card account  and pay back  to Mr A the difference  
between what Mr A owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NatWest  should also pay Mr A 8%* simple  
interest if Mr A paid off his credit card at some point. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr A can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A. 
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mr A any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2803561