K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  about the service she received from HSBC Bank UK Plc after she was 
targeted by fraudsters.
She brings  this complaint  on behalf  of her company  E.
background
In March 2018, Es business account  was targeted by fraudsters.  Amongst the transactions,  
were large amounts  sent to online  betting  companies which  Miss G says were  not made  by 
her or any of her employees.
When she complained  to HSBC, it began an investigation into the transactions  but at the 
same time, Miss G decided to make contact with the relevant retailer  too.  As a result, she 
was able to get her money back directly from the retailer   and shortly after from HSBC too.
Miss G complained about the way HSBC  had dealt with the fraud on the account.  HSBC  
had accepted she was not liable for the disputed transactions but offered her compensation 
of £75 for poor service which she wasnt happy  with.  So, Miss G brought her complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator looked into Miss Gs complaint in detail and answered every  point of her 
complaint.  These were as follows:
-Gambling transactions were authorised, but genuine transactions  including  direct
 debits  were blocked
-HSBC didnt disclose  the gambling transactions on the first telephone call with her
-HSBC tried to create doubt in the book-keepers integrity
-HSBC said the transactions were authorised using Verified by Visa  but the 
merchant claimed  they do not utilise this facility
-No resolution to HSBCs investigation was ever shared
-The length of time it took HSBC to refund these transactions. Then in contrast, they
were extremely quick  to remove  the duplicate refund
-Miss G had to use a lot of her own time to ensure she received a refund from the 
merchant directly
-HSBC havent  recorded their extensive  conversations and havent taken the fraud
seriously
Having considered the evidence, our investigator didnt think  he could ask HSBC  to do 
anymore.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done so, I arrive at the same 
conclusion as the investigator  and for very much  the same  reasons.
The investigator has detailed the reasons for his findings  and I echo  them in this decision.  
However, I dont propose to rehearse  them in detail  but to perhaps deal with Miss Gs 
Ref: DRN24298692concerns generally  including those  which she intended to raise with her MP.  In doing so, I 
would remind Miss G that this service  is an informal one  set up to settle disputes 
expediently.  We dont  have the full investigatory powers which  a court may have  and 
neither do we regulate HSBC.  That is a role for the FCA.
I note Miss G is concerned about  the amount of time she has lost, personally  and as a 
business, and I accept what she says about  the time she has invested in seeking  answers  
from HSBC.  But  I remind myself that in a relatively short  time,  HSBC made the decision to 
treat these  transactions as fraudulent  and not hold Miss G liable.  She made  the choice to 
contact the retailers  direct  so its not something I can hold HSBC liable for.
As for the fraud detection systems and why these  werent triggered  on the account, I am 
unable to comment on.  Neither  I, nor the investigator, are privy to the details of this system  
 for obvious  reasons  and its not for this service to tell HSBC how it should  run its 
detection system.  That is a matter for HSBC.
Miss Gs other frustration is HSBCs refusal to arrange a meeting with her and a manager  to 
discuss matters.  If these  matters relate  to her complaint then I think  HSBC have dealt with 
that through  this process  and I also by this decision.  I dont think it is unreasonable  for 
HSBC to refuse to discuss  the complaint any further.   However, if the concerns are about 
security going forward  and how best to protect  her business accounts, HSBC  has told this 
service that she can speak to a branch  representative or business banking over the phone.
Miss G says she has made numerous requests for a face to face meeting. That must be 
frustrating but if HSBC can only offer telephone appointments,  I cannot see how that is unfair  
or unreasonable.
So, for all the reasons  as explained by the investigator and above, I will not be asking HSBC  
to do anymore.  I know Miss G will be disappointed  but I hope  this decision now brings  an 
end to what has clearly been a particularly frustrating complaint for her.
my final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2429869