K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B)  mis-sold them  a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs K applied  to take out a PPI policy to protect the repayments on the mortgage 
they were arranging in 1988. They paid a monthly  premium for the PPI, which covered Mr K 
for accident and sickness only.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr and Mrs K disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs Ks case. 
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive looked into whether  Mr and Mrs K were given a choice about buying  PPI and agreed to 
go ahead  with it. Ive seen a copy of the relevant part of their signed mortgage application 
form. The form included a section  on PPI and gave them  the option to say whether they 
wanted PPI. I can see that they ticked for Accident & Sickness only cover rather  than a 
more expensive policy that also included unemployment cover.  Mr K also signed a separate  
PPI application  form which  included some of the details of the cover to be added.   
I cant say for sure what  Mr and Mrs K might have been told at their meeting but I think B&B 
made them aware the PPI was separate to the mortgage and that they had a choice about 
buying it. And it seems  they chose to take it out. 
From the information Ive seen I dont think B&B recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs K, so 
it didnt have to check if it was right for them. But it still should have given them  clear  
information so they could  make up their own minds about whether it was right for them.  
I cant say for sure whether B&B did that. But I dont  think any information about the PPI 
would have made a difference  to Mr and Mrs Ks decision to buy it, based on what Ive seen  
of their circumstances  at the time.  I say that because, for example:
Mr K was eligible  for the PPI. The PPI had certain restrictions and limitations to the 
cover it provided but I cant see that he would have been affected by them at the time 
of the sale. Although  Mr K was self-employed, which could potentially  have made  it 
more difficult for him to claim for unemployment,   as Ive said the policy  they took out 
didnt include unemployment  cover.
Mr K wasnt entitled to enhanced sick pay. The PPI benefits would potentially have 
paid out until the end of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs K say they had savings or 
insurance they could  have  used  if Mr K was off work. But the PPI benefits would 
have allowed them to use those  provisions to cover their other expenses for a time if 
Ref: DRN28041962Mr K wasnt  working. So I believe they would have  thought the PPI provided them 
with useful additional protection  especially given the serious  consequences  of 
defaulting on a debt secured against their home.  
Although I cant see that the monthly premium  of £10.50 was made clear  to Mr and 
Mrs K during the sale,  I dont think it would have put them off the PPI. And the PPI 
was flexible in that they could have cancelled it at any time if they decided  they no 
longer wanted  it.
Which means B&B doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K. But 
B&B will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K because:
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs K about that. Because B&B didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, B&Bs basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers  fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs K have  said, including  that the policy was 
incorrectly set up in Mrs Ks rather than Mr Ks name until they arranged for it to be corrected 
in 1998. But they didnt  lose out because of that as Im not aware that they needed  to claim 
for Mr K before the change was made.  Had he needed to claim,  Ive little doubt  the policy 
would have been amended at that stage, just as it was when Mr and Mrs K first noticed the 
error in 1998.  Overall,  this doesnt change  my mind.
what the business needs  to do
B&B has to pay back to Mr and Mrs K any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  already  done so. B&B should  also pay back to 
Mr and Mrs K any extra  interest they paid because of that.
B&B should  pay back to Mr and Mrs K the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs K 8%* simple interest  on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs K can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc doesnt  have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs K any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium,  if it hasnt already done so. 
Ref: DRN28041963Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 July 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2804196