K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2001 to protect a credit card. Mrs L  who is professionally represented  says 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her PPI. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Halifax in the rest of my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs L says she wasnt  told she had PPI and so, wasnt aware it had been added. Halifax 
has given me a copy of Mrs Ls signed credit card agreement.  And on it I can see a 
printed cross has been made  to select the PPI. 
Mrs L says the box to select PPI was electronically  selected and this means Halifax  
added it. But the sale took place in one of Halifaxs branches,  and because  of that I think 
its most  likely a detailed  conversation took place which led to this application form being 
printed and then signed  by Mrs L. 
So, on balance, I think Halifax most likely  made it clear that Mrs L didnt  have to take out 
the PPI and she chose to take it out. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs L so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
I note what Mrs Ls representatives have said about the lack of information  about the 
policy when the sale took place. I accept  its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs L 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But she most likely chose to take it 
out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been  
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs L and her representatives have said  including that she 
had other  insurance  cover  and contingencies. But despite our adjudicator asking for more 
information about this, we havent  had any further  information relating to it  other  than Mrs L 
not having any savings. So these points  dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs L paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Mrs L back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs L now Ive issued my final decision.  
Ref: DRN27623792my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2762379