K821x#15Complaint
Mr M complains  about advice given  to him by Integrity IFA Ltd (Integrity) to switch his 
personal pension to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) and the associated  advice he 
was given on how to invest the money  switched to the SIPP.
Background
Mr M approached a mortgage advisor  associated with Integrity in late 2013. He said he was 
interested in investing his pension  in something  called Residential Regeneration Ltd. The 
mortgage advisor referred Mr M to Integrity. It seems Mr M had been  introduced to the idea 
of investing in Residential Regeneration Ltd by an unregulated  business associated with a 
friend or family member. 
Mr M had a personal pension, invested in a traditional with-profits  fund, which  was worth 
about £65,000. He was in his mid-fifties and his only other  significant  asset  was the equity in 
his home.  He had no other pension provision. 
A suitability report was issued by Integrity in April 2014. Integrity  advised Mr M to switch his 
personal pension  into a SIPP and invest  65% of the cash  with a discretionary investment 
manager (in a capital  growth portfolio),  25% in Residential  Regeneration  Ltd and the 
remaining 10% in cash. In relation  to this, the report said: 
We discussed the various ways you could achieve  your present objectives as outlined 
above, and I recommend that you do not invest all your capital to any unregulated  alternative
investments - due to lack of diversification and regulation.
Due to the above point.  I recommend that you consider allocating  your investments between
regulated managed funds, through the use of a discretionary fund manager,  cash,  and your
intended alternative investment "Residential Regeneration ltd - to benefit more  through
diversification.
The suitability report said Mr Ms attitude to risk was capital growth,  which was defined as 
follows:
The Capital Growth Investor is willing to accept high risk and chance of loss in order to 
achieve higher  returns  on his or her investment. Significant losses  over an extended period 
may prompt the Capital  Growth Investor  to shift to a less risky investment. The following 
criteria may help to ensure that such investors  have the best chance of achieving these 
goals: The portfolio should have  at least an approximately 80 percent chance of achieving a 
non-negative return  over a six to nine-year holding period.
At the end of the report, under the heading insistent client basis,  Integrity  advisor said you 
have declined my advice regarding a proposed investment portfolio and Mr M was going to 
invest 45% of the cash with a discretionary investment manager  (in a capital  growth 
portfolio), 45% in Residential Regeneration  Ltd and the remaining 10% in cash. In relation to 
this, the report said:  
Your required  investment allocation will expose you to more volatility through the lack of
asset diversification and less protection provided by the financial services compensation
scheme.
Ref: DRN29929922The above  points were discussed  with you, and you have instructed me to carry out your
pension provider switch  based on an insistent  client basis".
This simply means, that you have agreed to switch to a [name of provider] SIPP, 
however we cannot be responsible should the benefits provided from your  chosen 
SIPP investment proposition  provide you with a lower  benefit in the future (emphasis 
copied from the report) .
Residential Regeneration Ltd was a company established to develop property. The 
investment proposition was a loan to the company,  which it was to repay after five years, 
with interest of 12% per year. 
The investment with Residential Regeneration  Ltd has not returned any capital or paid any 
interest to date. 
Our adjudicator concluded the complaint should  be upheld.  He said,  in summary:
The advice Integrity gave exposed  Mr M to too much risk. He did not have the 
capacity to take the risk involved with the recommendations  made  by Integrity. 
Mr M had previously invested in a mainstream with-profits fund, and had no 
experience of an unregulated speculative investment  such  as Residential  
Regeneration Ltd. 
Mr Ms circumstances did not fit those  of an insistent client and there is no evidence 
from him, in the form of his own words, to justify him being treated as such. He did 
not therefore think Integrity could argue that it was reasonable to proceed on an 
insistent basis. 
The switch to the SIPP itself was also unsuitable  a full SIPP and a discretionary 
investment manager were expensive and unnecessary for an inexperienced investor 
with a modest pension  such as Mr M. 
The current position should be compared  to a notional alternative, reflecting how a 
suitable investment  might  have  performed. 
Integrity did not accept  the view. It said, in summary: 
Mr M fully understood the risk. He approached  it about the Residential Regeneration 
Ltd investment.  At no time has it ever marketed unregulated investments or advised 
its clients to open SIPPs.
Mr M invested  after all its warnings, and made an informed  decision.
If Mr M hadnt  taken its advice he would have invested 100% in Residential 
Regeneration Ltd, which would have  led to a potentially greater loss.
Mr M would have  made the investment anyway with or without its advice.
It did adequate  research and the client made  an informed decision based on this 
therefore how can it be responsible as all the risks were  fully explained.
Ref: DRN29929923The flexibility of the SIPP  was utilised by Mr M twice, as he withdrew funds.
My findings  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mr M approached Integrity with a particular investment in mind,  but he approached it seeking 
advice, and Integrity undertook to provide that advice. It was therefore  required to meet its 
regulatory obligation to give suitable advice. 
Integrity was right to conclude Mr Ms initial intended course of action (to invest  all his 
pension money  in Residential Regeneration Ltd) was not suitable, as it did not offer him 
enough diversification. But it still did not give him suitable advice. Residential Regeneration 
Ltd was not a suitable investment for Mr M at all as it entailed too much  risk, given his 
circumstances. And a switch to the recommended SIPP was not the best option for Mr M  
he could have achieved  his desired flexibility through cheaper options.  
I think, acting fairly and reasonably, this is what Integrity should have advised Mr M. And it 
should have explained  by reference to the merits of the Residential  Regeneration Ltd 
investment itself, rather than alternative investments generically  why that investment was 
not a suitable one for Mr M at all. Had it done  this, I am satisfied Mr M would have listened to 
this advice (he would not have proceeded insistently), and would not have switched to the 
SIPP  he would instead have taken an alternative, suitable, option. 
Turning first to the Residential Regeneration  Ltd, I note Integrity did carry out some due 
diligence into this investment. But I do not agree that it fully explained the risks to Mr M, or 
that there  is evidence to show  he fully understood the risks. 
The information Integrity obtained  showed  Residential Regeneration Ltd had been 
incorporated in May 2012. And I note from the only set of accounts available  at the time of 
advice (those for year ending 31 March 2013) that the issued share capital  was just £10 and 
the company had greater liabilities  than it did assets.  The documentation Integrity had regard 
to also included a business plan. This explained the plan was to borrow  £5m from investors 
and use this to work  with a property developer to buy properties  from Liverpool City Council. 
It explained it anticipated being able to buy and refurbish the properties for 15-20% under 
market value, and would  then rent them back to the council  for in the region of £500 to £600 
per property. There is very little to demonstrate the validity  of these aims. I also note this 
plan is dated June 2012  almost two years  before  Mr M was being advised  and there is 
no evidence any of the plan had been  enacted by the time the advice was being given. 
I think, in the light of this information,  Integrity should have explained to Mr M that this was a 
highly speculative investment, suitable  only for a very small portion of the portfolio of an 
investor with significant assets. It should  have  explained Mr M was lending a large  amount of 
money to a company with no track record and a weak financial position, which was making 
what appeared to be largely speculative claims about being able to make  extremely  high 
returns simply by buying  council properties,  refurbishing them,  and renting them back  the 
council. It should  have explained to Mr M that it appeared  the company was entirely  funded 
by debt (presumably loans from investors  such as Mr M) and the company  did not appear to 
be profitable, having a deficit at the time of the last accounts. 
Ref: DRN29929924Integrity should have  explained to Mr M that Residential  Regeneration Ltd was not a suitable 
investment for him at all, for these reasons. It did not do so  its risk warnings/explanations 
were generic, and it concluded that Residential Regeneration Ltd was suitable  for 25% of 
Mr Ms pension.  
I am satisfied that advice  given in the terms I describe would have been heeded by Mr M. I 
think he would have  been put off the idea all together,  once he was aware of the true risks.  I 
also note Mr M did listen  to the advice Integrity  did give him. He did not do exactly  as it 
recommended. But he did nonetheless  shift from wanting to invest 100% of his pension in 
Residential Regeneration Ltd to investing 45%, as a result of Integritys advice. Which does 
suggest a willingness on his part to listen to advice. If he was insistent on making  an 
investment in Residential Regeneration Ltd I do not think Mr M would have listened to 
Integritys advice at all  he would simply have gone ahead and invested  100%. In the event, 
I think he took some comfort from Integritys advice that it was suitable for him to put some of 
his money in Residential Regeneration Ltd  I think he was likely emboldened by that. 
Turning next to the switch to the SIPP itself, like the adjudicator, I think  this was not the best 
option for Mr M. It seems  Mr M did want some flexibility. But there were much cheaper  
products available in the market which would provide this. The high fixed  initial  and ongoing 
charges associated with the SIPP recommended  made it unsuitable for Mr M, given his 
relatively modest pension.  
The assets in the recommended investment portfolio  a mainstream capital growth  portfolio 
 may have  been suitable for some of Mr Ms pension. But, again, I dont think  this was the 
best option for Mr M. He did not need  a discretionary manager for the sum involved and 
could have accessed similar assets  at a lower  cost. 
So, all in all, I agree with adjudicator  the advice was not suitable. And, for the reasons  
given, I am satisfied that Mr M would have heeded  suitable advice. So I think  it is fair and 
reasonable to ask Integrity to pay compensation which puts Mr M in the position he would 
likely be, had suitable advice been given. 
It would also not be fair for Integrity  to keep any fee paid to it by Mr M, given that its advice 
was unsuitable.  If this fee was paid out of the pension, it will be encompassed by the 
comparison I set out below. But if was paid direct  by Mr M it will need to be refunded  
separately, as I set out below. 
I note Integrity has referred to Mr M withdrawing money from the SIPP in the first few years 
after it was opened.  Allowance should of course  be made  for the withdrawals when 
compensation is calculated. But I do not think the fact Mr Ms plans changed should 
otherwise have a bearing on my decision as to what is fair and reasonable here. Mr M was 
given unsuitable  advice, and it is fair to ask Integrity to compensate him for that, even if he 
did make  withdrawals from his pension earlier than was anticipated at the time of advice.  
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when  he invested. 
Ref: DRN29929925What should Integrity do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Integrity must  compare the performance of Mr M's investment 
with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual  value 
there is a loss and compensation  is payable.  If the actual value is greater than the fair value, 
no compensation is payable. Integrity  should add also interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Integrity  should  pay into Mr M's pension to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If Integrity  is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the pension, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would  have been  able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
If the advisers fees were paid separately  (and therefore wont be encompassed by the 
comparison), these should be repaid together with simple interest at 8% a year,  from the 
date the fees were  paid to the date of the settlement. If the above  comparison shows  that no 
compensation is payable, the difference between the actual value and the fair value can be 
offset against the fees with interest.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Integrity  deducts  income  tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr M how much  has been  taken off. Integrity  should  give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP mixedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
Ref: DRN29929926within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
The Residential Regeneration investment does not currently have a realisable value. So, the 
actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Integrity  should  take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  
provider. This amount  should be deducted  from the compensation  and the balance paid as I 
set out above.
If Integrity  is unable to purchase  the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. And Integrity  may require  that Mr M provides an 
undertaking to pay Integrity any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. 
That undertaking must allow  for any tax and charges  that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. Integrity  will need  to meet  any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Integrity totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr M wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept some  investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Integrity  IFA Ltd should pay the amount 
Ref: DRN29929927calculated as set out above.
Integrity IFA Ltd should provide details  of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2020. 
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2992992