K821x#15complaint
Ms B, on behalf of herself and the estate of the late Mr B, has complained that Lloyds  Bank 
Plc (trading  as C&G) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from March 2019, which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was not minded to uphold Ms B and the 
estate of Mr Bs complaint. I invited both Ms B and Lloyds to provide any further  submissions 
they may wish to make before I reached a final decision. Lloyds didnt provide a response. 
Ms B made some further comments  that will address below.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B responded to my provisional decision to say that she apologised for her faulty memory 
of past events. She also said that she wouldnt have signed for the policy if she had read the 
terms and conditions.
Ms B has no need to apologise. As I said in my provisional decision, the sale happened a 
long time ago and so it is only natural  that she isnt able to remember exact timings of when 
things happened. And the event  of buying  PPI itself is not something that would stand out in 
the memory.
I explained in my provisional decision  why I thought  that Ms B and Mr B would have  taken 
out the policy anyway, even if they had been  given better information  by Lloyds. Ms Bs 
additional comments have  not persuaded me to change my mind about that. Therefore I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions  set out in my provisional  decision.
It follows that I do not uphold Ms B and the late Mr Bs complaint about the policy  being  mis-
sold. However, Lloyds  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI because : 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms B and Mr B about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
my final decision
My decision  is that the policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B and the estate of the late Mr B.
Ref: DRN28076092But, as set out in my provisional decision below, Lloyds Bank Plc does have to pay back to 
Ms B and the estate of the late Mr B any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium, plus interest.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B and the 
estate of the late Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN28076093COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms B, on behalf of herself and the estate of the late Mr B, has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC 
(trading as C&G) mis-sold  them a mortgage  payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background 
Mr and Ms B took out the PPI at the same time as arranging their mortgage in a branch of Lloyds in 
December 2000 (with the mortgage and policy going live in February  2001).
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms B disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. . Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale 
of Payment Protection  Insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding this 
case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms B and the estate of the late Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ms B has said she is unhappy that Lloyds has failed  to address the sale from when  the mortgage was 
taken out in 1987 and have only looked at when Mr and Ms B arranged  a further advance in 2000. 
However, looking at the evidence, it is clear that the mortgage was with a different  lender prior to 
2000 and that in 2000 Mr and Ms B re-mortgaged  to Lloyds.  
Ms B says that she didnt  know they had taken  out PPI with the mortgage, therefore it must have been 
added without their knowledge or consent.
Lloyds has provided copies of some paperwork from the sale. On the mortgage  application form there 
is a separate section for insurance and there is a tick next to the statement: I wish to apply for C&G  
Payment Protection Plus cover and have completed the relevant proposal form at the back of this 
application form. Then  there is a separate PPI application form that has been completed, where it is 
stated that the benefit has been split 75/25 in favour of Mr B. Both Mr and Ms B have signed  this form.  
There is also a separate direct debit form for the PPI, which they signed. Mr and Ms B were  then sent 
a welcome letter dated 5 March 2001 which  thanked them for applying for PPI and which included  the 
policy schedule.
The sale happened a long time ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Ms Bs recollection  of events  is 
somewhat faded - and its clear that Ms B has forgotten some  of the details from the time,  for instance 
she was convinced that her existing mortgage was already with Lloyds  in 2000, when  in fact it was 
with a different lender. From the evidence Ive seen I think there would have been some discussion 
about the policy and how it would best meet the couples needs  because a decision has been made  
to split the policy benefit  in a particular  way, rather than equally between Mr and Ms B. Overall  Im 
persuaded that the optional nature of the PPI would have been made clear  to them. It seems to me 
that Mr and Ms B decided to buy the policy, knowing that they didnt have to, even if Ms B no longer 
remembers doing  so.
Lloyds advised Mr and Ms B to buy the PPI. Therefore, in recommending the policy to them, it needed 
to ensure that it met Mr and Ms Bs needs.
Mr B was self-employed and wouldnt  have had access to any sick pay if he was unable to work due 
to illness. He also didnt have any savings to fall back  on. So it appears that Mr B had a need for the 
policy and could have  benefitted from it. Ms B would  have  received sick pay from her job, but the 
Ref: DRN28076094policy would have paid out in addition  to this, and potentially for longer than she would have received 
full pay for. Ms B says she also had some savings. But having the policy would  have allowed  her to 
retain these  or use them  to cover other household outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
The policy excluded claims for illness  resulting from the taking of alcohol. Ms B has said that Mr B 
was an alcoholic at the time of the sale. She says that he became very ill with an alcohol related  
illness within a year of taking out the policy. Ms Bs recollection of events  is not exact and she only 
thinks that it was in 2001,  rather  than knowing for sure. Ms B has, for understandable reasons, but 
unable to provide any evidence of Mr Bs illness.  I dont doubt what she is saying about Mr Bs 
condition, but Im not persuaded that I can rely on the timing of events  and the circumstances at the 
time that the couple were sold the PPI.
Ms B says that Lloyds  would have known about Mr Bs alcoholism and so should not have  
recommended the policy to them.  But Mr and Ms B did not tell Lloyds about Mr Bs condition  during 
the mortgage interview.  Rather,  Ms B feels that the adviser should  have known  because it was 
common knowledge in the area that they lived in. I dont think  I can safely conclude that the adviser 
knew about Mr Bs condition just because  some  other people in the town  might have known about it. 
Also, there  would have been a question mark over whether Mr and Ms B would have  had the 
mortgage agreed at all if Lloyds  had understood  that to be the situation. So on balance  I do not accept  
that Lloyds knew about Mr Bs alcoholism. I think  the recommendation to take out PPI was suitable 
based on the information that Lloyds had about Mr and Ms B.
Lloyds also needed  to provide Mr and Ms B with sufficient information for them to make an informed 
choice about whether or not the policy  was right for them.  So it had a duty to explain the significant 
terms and conditions  to them. An exclusion for alcoholism is a common term in insurance policies and 
would not be significant  to the average consumer. From what Ms B has said,  its possible that the 
term may have been  significant to them.  So I would have expected Lloyds  to draw it to their attention  
if it had known  that it was relevant. But as Ive explained above, I am not persuaded  that the Lloyds 
adviser would have  known that Mr B was an alcoholic. So I dont think that Lloyds needed to take 
steps to highlight  that particular  term.
In terms of the information  that Lloyds  should have provided,  its possible that it didnt do that as well 
as it should have.  But as I think that Mr and Ms B had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I 
dont think that further information about those things  would have changed their minds. So I dont 
think the policy was mis-sold, which means that Lloyds  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr and Ms B about that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell them, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically  offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Ms B and the estate of the late Mr B any commission and profit share it got 
that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.  Lloyds should also pay back  to them any extra interest 
they paid because of that.
Lloyds should pay back to Ms B and the estate of the late Mr B the extra  they paid each month 
because the commission  and profit  share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should 
also pay them  8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Lloyds have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms B can claim  back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN28076095my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that the policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B and the estate of the late Mr B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Ms B and the estate of the late Mr B any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2807609