K820x#14complaint
Miss H has complained about Zurich Insurance PLC in relation to a claim she made for a 
broken laptop  under  the gadget cover  section of her possessions insurance policy.
background
Miss H switched her laptop  off one evening and when she went to use it again the next day it 
wouldnt turn on. She contacted Zurich. She said she thought  the problem had resulted from 
a previous repair it had carried  out about  nine months previously. Zurich asked Miss H to get 
a report on the laptop to establish what the cause  of the problem was. Miss H did this and 
got back in touch with Zurich.
Zurich had its original  repairer assess the laptop.  The original repairer also asked to see a 
copy of the report  Miss H had obtained.  The repairer noted the report said the motherboard  
was the cause of the problem  but not why or how that part was damaged.  The repairer  
carried out various tests  and a visual assessment. It felt there  was no sign of the previous 
repair having caused the problem or that any other  damage had occurred that was covered 
by the policy.  It felt the machine had failed due to wear and tear. Zurich said it couldnt  assist 
Miss H any further.
Miss H was unhappy. She said shed spent money  backing up her files and on the report as 
well as on purchasing  a replacement laptop.  She noted that her policy  is advertised as 
having a quick  replacement time for items, promising peace of mind for policyholders.  
Miss H said Zurichs argument that there was no damage was illogical  given another expert  
had found there was a fault  and expensive laptops  like hers dont just fail. In Miss Hs mind 
there must have been a specific incident that caused the problem, so Zurich  should accept 
the claim and reimburse all her costs.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She noted Zurichs  repairers  conclusion  that 
the machine was suffering  wear  and tear and that Miss Hs expert hadnt reached  a 
conclusion as to the cause of the problem. Based on the available  evidence our investigator 
felt Zurichs decline of the claim  was fair and reasonable. She also noted  that the advertised 
replacement time was based on accepted claims.  
Miss H argued that the laptop was less likely to be suffering wear and tear than it was 
damage sustained  from the previous loss/repair. In her mind it was known that the previous 
damage had occurred whilst it was only speculation that wear and tear might  have 
happened. Therefore, Miss H argued, the former  was more  likely to have happened.  She 
also pointed out that the repairers report wasnt independent because it was issued with a 
view to defending  its own previous repair. Miss H also felt those findings  must be flawed 
because they suggested there was no problem but the machine would clearly not work.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Hs policy  doesnt cover her for all instances of damage howsoever  caused. So the fact 
that her laptop isnt working isnt enough  to say Zurich has liability for fixing  it. 
Ref: DRN24305412Rather it has to be shown, at least on the face of it, that the damage has resulted from a 
cause covered by the policy. The most  relevant here being accidental  damage.  That means  
the damage must have been  sudden  and unexpected and caused by violent means. 
Miss Hs report  doesnt show that is most likely the case. None of the tests completed by 
Zurichs repairer suggest  that is the case either.  The only expert view on the cause of the 
damage has come from Zurichs repairer and that view is that the machine is suffering from 
wear and tear (which  is a gradual  rather than sudden  process).  Miss Hs opinion that this 
view is flawed isnt sufficient reason for me to discount it because  she isnt a technical 
expert. And her expert didnt comment as to why or how the motherboard  identified  as the 
source of the problem  preventing the machine from powering on  had developed a fault or 
been damaged.
I know Miss H feels that the repairers view is flawed. Im not a technician. So Im unsure 
how the laptop could pass those tests  when there  is clearly an issue  with it powering  on. 
There may well be a good reason for this. But even if I accept that the results  of these tests 
cant fairly be relied upon there is still a lack of proof to show  the laptop  has suffered damage 
as covered by the policy. 
There is also a lack of proof to show the laptop  was damaged as a result  of a previous  
repair. I take Miss Hs point in this respect   Zurichs repairer cant  reasonably give an 
impartial view because it is its own work  its defending. However, again, Miss Hs expert  
doesnt conclude  what the cause of the problem with the motherboard is. So there is no 
evidence showing or even suggesting  that the previous repair  is the most likely cause of the 
current failure.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied that Zurichs refusal to repair or replace the 
laptop was fair and reasonable.  Im not going  to make it reimburse Miss Hs losses.
I appreciate it was frustrating for Miss H to have a claim that didnt succeed, especially when 
she took the policy to ensure peace of mind. But I cant reasonably find an insurer at fault for 
not providing peace of mind when it was reasonably  entitled to refuse the claim made. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I make no award  against Zurich Insurance PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2430541