K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas) wont meet  a claim she made
under her home insurance  for a damaged carpet.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July. In that I said I was minded to uphold 
Miss Cs complaint, because I didnt  think Ageas  had sufficiently shown  good  reason to 
decline the claim. A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C is content with my provisional decision.
Ageas sent me some more information about the photos taken  and crucially,  when these  
were taken. It does look like the timetable of events related to cleaning  up the paint is as 
Ageas describes. But I said in my provisional  decision  I didnt think that affected the outcome 
of my decision. For clarity,  Ageas initially said it thought a discrepancy in the timings showed  
Miss C hadnt tried to mitigate her loss  ie didnt try to clean up the paint as quickly  as she 
might have. My thoughts  on that, as I explained, were that I didnt think any timing issue  
would have made a difference  to the success or failure of cleaning.
Ageas also says it declined the claim because of the many inconsistencies in what  Miss C 
said. And its postulated several  scenarios  it thinks Miss C described and then speculated 
about how that might change the damage  in other words where the paint ended  up. But 
none of these theories are additional  evidence  so they dont  affect my thinking on this 
point.
I can see Ageas has quoted one conversation it held with Miss C, which  it says suggests 
Miss C changed her story  about whether she had been standing on the bedding box 
subsequently splashed with paint. Ive read the transcript carefully, and Im not placing much  
weight on this point.  Ill explain  why. I can see Ageas member  of staff suggested there was 
a chest of drawers in the photo  and was that what Miss C stood on. Ageas says this was the 
blanket box in the photos. I cant see that Ageas confirmed that the chest of drawers and 
the blanket box were  the same item of furniture. So its possible Miss C also had a chest  of 
drawers in the room and might  have taken the comment in the call at face value  which  
could explain her reaction  to the question about where she stood whilst painting.  
Ageas says there were further inconsistencies too which led it to think the claim wasnt being 
made honestly. I havent seen any new evidence about these, so I see no reason to change  
my provisional thoughts  about how Miss C described what  happened.
Im not persuaded I should change  my provisional findings.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Ref: DRN26514982meet Miss Cs claim  in line with any other  terms and conditions in her policy.  It can 
pay a cash equivalent if Miss C prefers that.
Ageas  must remove any records suggesting  Miss C made a fraudulent claim, if there 
are any. 
it should refund any unused  premium  on her policy from the date of the claim to the 
end of the policy.
pay £150 compensation for the way it handled this claim
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26514983Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Miss C complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas) wont meet  her claim she made
under her home insurance  for a damaged carpet.
background
Miss C was painting and fell, splashing paint  on her carpet and a wooden blanket  box.
Ageas thought the way she described  what happened had some  discrepancies,  but
ultimately it says it declined Miss Cs claim because   having had a similar  accident  about
five years earlier  she should  have taken  more care to protect her carpet.
Our investigator thought Ageas should  pay the claim, as she didnt think  it could rely on a
due care  exclusion  in the terms and conditions in Miss Cs policy.  She thought Ageas was
also using an argument about inconsistencies  and misleading information  as part of the
reason why it wouldnt pay the claim.
Ageas explained why it thought it could rely on the due care clause  and said that
although it thought there  were inconsistencies in how Miss C described the accident it hadnt
declined the claim  because it thought Miss C was making a dishonest  claim.
Miss C later said her insurance broker  told her her policy  had been  cancelled by Ageas
without a refund of the premium shed  paid. Her broker said hed be unable  to find insurance
for her going forward. Miss C says she did find insurance from another provider, so she
doesnt want us to look at this particular  issue as part of this complaint.
Ive been asked to decide the complaint.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several parts to this complaint. Ill explain my thinking on each.
inconsistencies
Ageas will be aware  that not all inconsistencies  mean a customer is trying to inflate the value
of a claim  and it will also be aware  that proving a claim is inflated  etc is up to it  not the
consumer.
Having said that, Im not persuaded  any consistencies Ageas says its noticed are relevant.
I understand Ageas thinks photos Miss C provided werent taken  when she said they were 
although I havent seen the evidence Ageas is relying on. But whichever is the truth,  theres
only a 24 hour difference between what Miss C said happened  which was an attempt to
clean paint off the carpet  and when  Ageas  think this happened. This was white gloss paint
on a dark carpet, and I doubt any attempt at cleaning would have been successful.
Miss C has described how she fell  which is that she doesnt really  know why  the same
way every time shes been  asked, so I think thats been consistent.
Ref: DRN26514984Ageas has asked her to explain why the paint  ended up where it did  but from the photos
Ive seen it looks reasonable that the paint ended up where it did. Certainly I havent seen
any compelling evidence  from Ageas that it couldnt have splattered  the way it did.
Our investigator mentioned a ladder in her opinion, and Ageas  says thats a further
inconsistency. I havent seen reference to a ladder in anything Miss C told us, so I think that
was a slip by our investigator and can be ignored. Im sorry if thats  caused  inconvenience.
reason for decline
Ageas says its not paying Miss Cs claim  because her policy says she must  look after her
building and contents. And it says Miss C should,  in effect, know  better  because  shes
dropped paint on a carpet in the past.
The clause in the policy begins  We also wont pay claims that wouldnt have been  made  if
youd dealt with existing problems. Thats normally interpreted as applying to damage  thats
been building up over a period of time. In those circumstances a policy holder should do
something about the damage either when first noticed or as part of normal  maintenance.
Ageas says the next part of the clause applied to all claims. This is a sentence that says,  in
summary, Miss C should look after her contents and the policy  only covers her for things she
couldnt have  reasonably  prevented. It doesnt  think she did try to prevent damage. Im not
convinced by the argument, but even so I have  no reason to doubt Miss C when she says
she taped off part of the carpet in the area where she was painting and also covered the box
she was standing on with an old quilt in case of drips. Ive seen photos of the taped off
carpet, and although  it wasnt much  of the carpet that was protected, its clear Miss C made
some effort even if it wasnt  ultimately successful. That seems  fair to me. In any case  Ageas
hasnt shown me Miss C was reckless (as opposed  to simply somewhat careless)   which  Id
expect it to do if it wanted to rely on this clause to decline  the claim.
cancelling the insurance
Miss Cs insurance was cancelled with no refund  of premium.
Thats an action Id only expect Ageas  to take if it had justifiably declined Miss Cs claim
because it had shown  shed deliberately made  an exaggerated or false  claim, or in plainer
terms a fraudulent claim. Ageas  has emphasised  that it hasnt declined the claim for this
reason. So I see no reason  why it should  cancel Miss Cs policy without  providing  a refund of
premiums paid or record the claim on fraud  prevention  databases (if its done that).
I do accept Ageas can make a commercial decision about providing  cover for Miss C in the
future.
To put matters right Ageas must  put Miss C in the position she was in before the accident.
So I currently think it should meet Miss Cs claim in line with any other terms and conditions
in her policy. I understand Miss C was thinking  of moving. I dont know  if shes done that, but
if she has, then Ageas  will need  to make Miss C an appropriate cash  settlement.
Ageas must also remove any records suggesting Miss C made a fraudulent claim, if there
are any. And, given  it cancelled her policy without due cause, it should refund any unused
premium on her policy from the date of the claim to the end of the policy.
Ref: DRN26514985I think Ageas  has put Miss C in a difficult position in the way it handled  her claim, and shes
been left with a damaged carpet for a long time.  Shes also had to re-arrange insurance
earlier than she might otherwise have  done.  So in addition to the claim Im intending to order
Ageas to pay £150 compensation.
.
my provisional decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint  and order Ageas Insurance  Limited  to put things  right
as described above.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2651498