K820x#14complaint
Miss H and Mr C complain The Society  of Lloyds  has unfairly discontinued providing legal 
expenses cover for a claim  for rent arrears against  a previous tenant. 
The policy is underwritten by Brit Syndicate 2987.  But all claims and complaints are dealt  
with through Lloyds. For ease when I refer to Lloyds, this includes  reference to the acts or 
omissions of the underwriter/s.
background
Miss H and Mr C have  their landlords legal  expenses insurance policy through Lloyds. In 
May 2017 they issued their tenant  with an eviction notice under section 21 of the Housing 
Act 1988 as there were  rent arrears.  They  then made a claim under their legal expenses  
policy to cover the legal  costs of evicting their tenant and recovering the rent arrears.  
Lloyds accepted the claim initially  and sent the case to one of its panel  solicitors to assess  
the prospects  of success (a pre-requisite for cover  under the policy).  A hearing was set for 2 
August 2017.  However, this didnt go ahead  as by 6 July 2017 the tenant had vacated the 
property. The solicitors  understood from Miss H that the ex-tenant was now homeless and 
so it believed the prospects of recovery were low. As Miss H and Mr C werent  happy  that 
cover was going to be withdrawn, Lloyds agreed for the matter to be held over for six 
months to see if there was a change in the ex-tenants circumstances. The hearing  was 
vacated with liberty to restore until 2 February  2018.  
In February 2018  the solicitors instructed a tracing  agent to locate the ex-tenants  
whereabouts and find out more about his circumstances. The tracing  agent  located him, and 
found he was self-employed  as a decorator.  The solicitor sent a letter  before action for the 
rent arears  in April 2018 but the ex-tenant never replied. In June 2018 the solicitors notified 
Lloyds of no reply and informed it the prospects of success  were low. So Lloyds withdrew  
cover for the claim. 
Miss H and Mr C complained about that as they didnt think the circumstances of the ex-
tenant were any different   he had been self-employed  when the claim started and so a 
trace should  have been instructed then. They were also unhappy that they werent  provided  
with the details of the ex-tenant so they could pursue matters themselves and that the letter 
before action wasnt sent recorded delivery. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It was 
satisfied cover had been  withdrawn in accordance with the policy terms. And it explained  it 
couldnt share the details of the ex-tenant.
Not happy with that, Miss H and Mr C asked us to look into their complaint. Our investigator  
asked for more information  about why prospects were considered  low. Lloyds explained  that 
as the ex-tenant was self-employed he had a variable income and it wouldnt have been 
possible to obtain  an attachment  of earnings order as it would with an employed person. In 
those circumstances,  consideration is given  to any assets and the solicitors understood 
there were no assets and so the chances  of recovering the outstanding rent arrears,  in 
addition to legal costs, were low.  
Our investigator explained this to Miss H and Mr C and that she was satisfied the cover  had 
been withdrawn  fairly.  She was also satisfied Lloyds  had explained  why it couldnt share the 
ex-tenants information; why it was fair for the matter to be held over for six months; and of 
the likelihood of the legal correspondence being correctly delivered. Miss H and Mr A didnt 
Ref: DRN20500812agree and asked  for the matter to be referred  to an ombudsman. They havent provided any 
further evidence  or arguments for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss H and Mr C feel strongly  that cover  for their legal expenses shouldnt  have 
been withdrawn.  But I can only ask for cover to be reinstated if I find it has been withdrawn 
incorrectly (i.e. not in accordance with the policy terms and conditions) of if the terms and 
conditions have been applied unfairly  and/or  unreasonably. 
The starting position is the contract Miss H and Mr C have with the insurer  the policy  
document and the policy schedule. These set out the level of cover  provided and under what  
circumstances a claim can be made, including any exclusions which  may be applicable. 
The policy document says:
YOUR POLICY COVER
Following an INSURED EVENT the insurer will pay your legal costs & expenses  up 
to the limit specified  in your schedule for all related by time originating cause 
including the cost of appeals provided  that:
3) your claim
always has reasonable prospects of success
Reasonable Prospects  of Success is defined within the policy  document as:
1.Other than as set out in 2.and  3. below, a greater than 50% chance of 
successfully pursuing or defending  your claim against another  person.  If you are 
seeking damages or compensation,  there  must also be a greater than 50% 
chance of enforcing any judgment  that might  be obtained. 
It wasnt Lloyds that was handling  Miss H and Mr Cs legal claim. That was the solicitors.  So 
my consideration here is whether or not Lloyds was entitled to fairly  rely on the information it 
was given by the solicitors  about the prospects  of success. And as the investigator 
explained, that isnt something we would generally  find unfair unless we thought the advice 
was obviously wrong or based on factual errors such  that a prudent  legal expenses  insurer  
ought reasonably  to have realised this. (I understand Miss H has said the ex-tenant  wasnt  
homeless in 2017, but Ive not seen any supportive evidence  either  way. And I note the 
tenant was then and again  in 2018,  self-employed.)
Miss H and Mr C were  notified on 5 June  2017 that their claim had been passed to a firm of 
solicitors because of their expertise in handling  such matters.  I note this was handled by a 
landlord and tenant executive  within the firm of solicitors; a suitably-qualified professional.  It 
was their legal  opinion that when  the tenant  vacated the property and became homeless  
there were low prospects  of success.  As a persons circumstances can change, I find it fair 
that the claim was held over for six months to see if there  was any change. 
Its unfortunate that following  the trace enquiry and successfully locating the ex-tenant,  
prospects were still considered low. But I am satisfied that Lloyds was fairly entitled to rely 
Ref: DRN20500813on the independent advice given  by the solicitors.  After  all, they should have the expertise 
and knowledge  to know how a court would likely view such matters. Im not persuaded the 
advice was obviously wrong, or based  on factual errors, and I havent seen a contrary  legal 
opinion to suggest that Miss H and Mr C did in fact have a more than 50% prospect of 
success in pursuing  this matter and/or recovering the rent arrears.  Im not persuaded Lloyds 
has unfairly withdrawn cover, or that the terms and conditions  have  been  applied unfairly or 
unreasonably. Indeed,  I doubt a prudent uninsured person  would have risked  their own 
funds trying to pursue  a defendant in such circumstances, where the available evidence 
indicates theres seemingly little chance  of actually  recovering the money  (even presuming a 
favourable judgment, which isnt a given). Insurers  who may be regarded  as custodians of 
pooled funds  arent required  to take greater risks just because of their size and resources.
I note that Miss H and Mr C are unhappy the letter before  action wasnt sent by recorded 
delivery and argue that it isnt certain  it was received by the ex-tenant.  I accept it is possible 
it wasnt received. But generally the vast majority of correctly-addressed mail is correctly 
delivered. And Im not aware of any requirement  for such correspondence to be sent by 
recorded delivery, even if I understand the point. 
Miss H and Mr C would also like to be provided with the details of the ex-tenant  as 
discovered by the tracing agent.  But they were employed by the solicitors  not Lloyds. There  
are data protection implications for the sharing of personal information, so Im not persuaded 
it was wrong of Lloyds  to refer Miss H and Mr C to the solicitors  to see if they would be 
willing to provide the information. 
Overall, having considered the matter carefully, Im not persuaded Lloyds  has done anything  
wrong in withdrawing  cover where  the prospects of actually recovering damages  seem so 
poor, so I wont be asking it to reinstate cover  for the claim.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H and Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2050081