K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 2001. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Mr M says FICL  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
From what  Mr M has told us, he thinks the PPI was added when he took out his card at a 
meeting  and hes told us the PPI was added without  it being  discussed with him. But Mr M 
took out his card in 2000 without PPI. The PPI was added in 2001. FICL  thinks it was added  
as a result  of a phone call. And when  PPI is added to an existing account, this is often the 
result of a phone call. Taking everything into account, I think the PPI was sold by phone.
Mr M doesnt recall any discussion about the PPI. But given how long ago the PPI started, I 
wouldnt expect Mr M to have a detailed recollection  of that time. And what we know  of how 
FICL sold PPI over the phone makes me think its likely that FICL  asked Mr M whether he 
wanted cover and only added it after Mr M indicated that he wanted it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check the PPI was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr M got the information he needed  to decide whether the PPI 
was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as full or as clear as it 
shouldve been.  For example, Mr M says the policy exclusions werent explained  and the 
policy costs werent made clear.  But I think Mr M chose to take the cover  so it looks  to me 
like he wanted this type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time, Mr M wasnt  affected by any of the limits  on or exclusions to the cover  so I dont think 
better information about those wouldve made  a difference to his decision.  Also Mr Ms work  
sick pay lasted for only six months. For a successful sickness  or unemployment claim the 
PPI couldve paid out for longer and until the card balance was cleared. And Mr M has told 
us he didnt any savings  to help with his card payments if he couldnt work.  So it seems like 
the benefit wouldve been useful to Mr M if something went wrong.  Taking everything into 
account, I dont  think  better information  about the PPI wouldve put Mr M off taking  the cover.
Ive taken into account all Mr Ms points, including what  hes said about  not needing the PPI, 
and about FICL not telling him he could look elsewhere for PPI. But FICL  didnt  have to tell 
Mr M about PPI it didnt sell. And Ive explained my reasons for thinking  Mr M couldve found 
the cover  useful in his circumstances.  So, for these  reasons and in the light of all Ive said 
above already,  these  points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN26571142my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2657114