K821x#15the complaint
Mr G complains about problems he had with his business bank account with TSB Bank  plc. 
what happened
In March 2018 the payment card for Mr Gs business account was due to expire, so he 
asked at his local branch  about a replacement. He was told one should  have been ordered 
automatically but hadnt been  so the branch staff member ordered one for him. But it never  
arrived. 
In April TSB migrated to a new IT system,  but there were  problems  with this which impacted 
on many  of the services  it provided to its customers.  This included card ordering systems. 
TSB also received  very high numbers of complaints, which it wasnt able to respond  to within 
normal timescales.
By mid-May  Mr G still hadnt received a card for his business account. He made a complaint 
to TSB and said he had no choice but to close the account because  he was worried monthly 
charges would make the account  go overdrawn. 
In January 2019 Mr G received a brief letter from TSB which  enclosed  a cheque  for £150 
and said Were pleased  matters have now been fully resolved for you. Mr G got in touch  
with TSB to query this and a case  handler explained that a separate  letter should also have 
been received  which  set out TSBs full response to the complaint. Mr G said he never  got 
that letter. So, after discussing  Mr Gs concerns and some further complaint points, TSB said 
it would  issue another  response.   
Mr G then received a second letter  enclosing  a cheque for £10  with the same brief wording 
as the first and no other explanation. So Mr G referred his complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator got in touch with TSB to ask about  the letters and cheques. TSB explained 
that it had issued two response letters to Mr G on the same days it issued the cheque  letters. 
It provided copies of these  which the adjudicator forwarded to Mr G. 
The first letter apologised  for the problems  with ordering the replacement card and some  
online banking problems Mr G also said hed had. The letter stated that Mr G hadnt been  
charged for using the account  during the period he was complaining about. And the letter 
said that TSB had enclosed a cheque for £150, made up of £100 for poor service and £50 to 
cover out of pocket expenses.
The second  letter explained that TSB felt the outcome set out in the first letter was fair, but 
that TSB would also refund £10 which it said had been charged  when the account  was 
closed. TSB explained that it wouldnt be able to reactivate  Mr Gs closed business account  
and that he would have to apply  to open a new one instead.  
Based on what Mr G and TSB had said and provided, our adjudicator  felt the £160  TSB had 
paid Mr G was fair compensation for the issues raised. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said he found it insulting  to receive the cheques  and letters saying 
everything had been  resolved when he felt nothing had been. He felt his business had been 
abandoned by TSB for a year and said he hadnt  been able to open a new account because  
he didnt have the necessary identification documents. Mr G said not having an account had 
Ref: DRN22770892a significant impact on him personally and also on his business. He explained that he hadnt 
cashed either cheque and he felt TSB made a mistake with the £10 cheque because  he 
didnt believe hed been charged  when  the account was closed.  He questioned why he didnt 
get either of the response letters and also pointed to inconsistencies in them.  
A second adjudicator reviewed the complaint. Given the impact Mr G said TSBs  poor 
service had on him overall,  she recommended  TSB pay a further £150 compensation on top 
of what it had already  paid Mr G. 
TSB accepted this recommendation. But Mr G remained unhappy with this outcome. He 
wants TSB to open a business bank account for him, send him a new bank card and pay 
£15,000 to £20,000 of compensation. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its been passed to me to decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  So Ive looked at everything  Mr G and 
TSB have  said and provided   and Ive also listened to the calls Mr G had with the first 
adjudicator and with TSBs case handler. 
After doing that its clear  to me that Mr G is very unhappy with the service hes had from TSB 
 both with the lack of a replacement card for his business account and also the way TSB 
answered his complaint.  But I think the recommendation  of £310 in total for poor service and 
out of pocket expenses is a fair way to resolve  this. Ill explain why I think that.
Mr Gs complaint started when TSBs systems didnt automatically issue  a replacement bank 
card when his old one was due to expire   and it still didnt issue  one when he ordered  it at 
the branch. Clearly  those were errors on TSBs  part and TSB hasnt denied that. 
Unfortunately Mr Gs problem then got swept up in the wider system problems and high 
numbers of complaints  which happened at the end of April. And this meant TSB didnt 
resolve Mr Gs problem  as quickly as it should have.  
I can understand why Mr G found  it frustrating not to have a card,  or get a response from 
TSB. But I also have to consider what the impact  of that really  was. Hes said he wasnt able 
to pay money into the account, or conduct  any business through  it. But looking at the 
account statements  dating back to April 2017, I cant see that Mr G was making  what Id 
consider to be frequent use of the account  anyway.  
In most months the pattern of use was largely the same; Mr G would pay in £30-£40  cash at 
his local branch, one monthly bill would come out, and the £5 account fee would be taken. 
In many months these  were the only transactions. When there were other transactions, they 
were often payments  into the account of less than £10  and these  usually happened  
instead of the cash  payment in the branch. So, when  deciding what  the level of impact was 
and what would be fair compensation for that, Ive weighed  up how Mr G typically used the 
business account before he encountered any problems. 
Ive also thought about the fact Mr G hasnt had a business account since last May. But 
thats because  he chose to close his TSB account and hasnt, so far, opened  one elsewhere. 
I realise Mr G says he closed the TSB account  to avoid  the risk of it going  overdrawn, but 
Ref: DRN22770893that was still his choice to make. And its also been his choice not to apply for the 
identification hell need if he wants to open a new account with TSB, or with another  bank. 
During his call with TSB Mr G also gave a number of reasons  why he generally  hadnt been 
happy with his business account. He said he didnt think  the £5 a month fee was justified by 
the facilities the account offered, and he wasnt happy  the account didnt pay credit interest. 
He was also clearly frustrated that TSB doesnt  have permanent business managers at each 
branch and that he would  have to arrange  an appointment or call the business banking  
department from his local branch instead. And he also said he should be able to use the 
mobile banking  app for the business account.  
I understand that Mr G would like TSB to provide different facilities  than it does  and that he 
doesnt want to be charged for them. But, like all banks, TSB is entitled  to make commercial  
decisions about what accounts and facilities it chooses to provide and what it charges for 
them. It isnt required to provide the services Mr G has said hed like  or provide them  for 
free. And that sort of commercial decision isnt something this service would interfere with. 
This means  I cant  agree that TSB is responsible for Mr G no longer having  a business 
account  or the period  of time hes been without one, or the impact he says thats had. 
And I also cant fairly direct  TSB to step outside its normal account  opening  process. If Mr G 
wants to open  a new business  account  with TSB he will have to follow  its normal  process  
and provide whatever documents TSB requires to open that type of account. And hell also 
have to abide by the account terms and conditions,  including  the facilities TSB chooses to 
offer and what it charges for them. I cant reasonably direct TSB to do something different  for 
Mr G than it does for other customers  with the same  kind of account. 
Turning to the cheques TSB has sent to Mr G, Ive looked at whether TSB should have sent 
the £10 cheque. Mr G says it shouldnt have, because he doesnt  think TSB actually charged  
him £10. So he thinks TSB sent him £10 he isnt entitled to. Whereas TSB has provided a 
closing statement which shows Mr G withdrew  the remaining £12.75 balance from the 
account on 18 May 2018, leaving a £0 balance. On 25 May a £10 credit  was put into the 
account and two £5 charges were debited, taking the balance back to £0. The account  was 
then closed.  
Mr G told our adjudicator that he moved the £10 because thats what was left in the account. 
But the £10 is a credit in, not a payment out. And the statement does then seem  to show  two 
£5 charges being  taken.  Ultimately its not clear  whether TSB or Mr G put the £10 into the 
account. But, given  this uncertainty, I think it was reasonable  for TSB to send Mr G £10 to 
make sure he isnt out of pocket. I realise Mr G finds this unsatisfactory   but at worst it 
means TSB has decided  to pay him £10 more  than it should have and otherwise it means 
TSB has made  sure he hasnt lost out financially.  But if Mr G still feels he genuinely isnt 
entitled to this money then he can decide not to cash  the cheque. 
Mr G also told TSB that he was concerned more generally about paying the compensation 
cheques into his account because he believes it might affect the payments he receives from 
other organisations. But I think  thats  a matter  for him to sort out with those other 
organisations  not something  TSB is responsible for. 
TSB is responsible for taking appropriate  steps  to put things right where  its done  something 
wrong. As well as not sending Mr G a replacement card, its clear TSBs complaint process 
also hasnt worked  smoothly or in the right order here. Mr G says he didnt get the letters  
explaining what the cheques were for. I can understand  why that confused  and annoyed 
Ref: DRN22770894him. That said, I also cant see why TSB would  have gone to the trouble  of creating the 
letters if it didnt also intend to send them.
The adjudicator has already explained  that TSBs response letters  and cheques  are sent 
from different departments.  Its unfortunate that, in this particular case, the letters dont 
actually seem to have been  sent when they were meant to have been.  But Mr G does have 
them now,  along  with the explanations and apologies they contain. 
I cant agree  that TSB has to open  a new business account for Mr G in the way he wants  it 
to, or that it should pay the level of compensation Mr G has suggested it should. So I think  it 
was reasonable  for TSB to instead  try to come to another way to compensate Mr G, by 
paying him some monetary compensation. Overall, with the copies of the letters Mr G now 
has and with the additional  award the adjudicators have recommended and TSB has agreed  
to pay, I think this provides a fair and reasonable way to put right whats  gone wrong here.  
putting things right
TSB should pay Mr G a further  £150 for poor service, on top of the £160  its already paid 
him, making  the total compensation  £310.   
Mr G should let us know  when responding to this decision  whether he wants TSB to issue a 
further cheque  for £150, or whether he would prefer TSB to cancel the two cheques  it has 
already sent him and issue one new cheque  for £310. If Mr G wants TSB to make  a direct 
payment to another account instead,  he should give us those account details. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct TSB Bank  plc to put things right by doing  what Ive set out 
above  but only where  it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
I also remind Mr G that my decision is the final stage of our process, so we wont be able to 
look into this complaint any further.  
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2277089