K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has not refunded a payment she made  as part of a 
scam.
background
In September  2018 Ms G made a payment of £1,853 to someone  she believed  was renting 
out a property. Shes explained they had a persuasive reason for her needing to send them 
the money without  her first seeing  the property in person and that they had a convincing  
website. Once  Ms G had sent the payment the third party  stopped corresponding with her.
Ms G reported that she had been  scammed to HSBC the next day. As the receiving account 
was also with HSBC,  it was able to identify  what funds  remained in the account. HSBC says 
the majority of the funds  had already been removed and so it was only able to recover  £3.87 
for Ms G  it paid this into her account  in October 2018.
Ms G says HSBC should have been able to stop the payment because it was within  the 
same bank and is also unhappy  with how HSBC  dealt  with her request for a refund. 
Specifically, in relation to communication and delays.
HSBC declined to provide  a refund on the basis that Ms G had authorised  the payment 
herself and so it had correctly followed  her instructions. It says it wouldnt have been able to 
stop the payment once it was made and that this would have been  clear to Ms G when she 
made the payment. 
Ms G complained to our service  an investigator  here considered the complaint and didnt  
uphold it. She didnt think the payment  would  have appeared suspicious and so HSBC  had 
acted correctly in following  Ms Gs instructions. She also explained HSBC had refunded  her 
what it could and that she didnt think it needed  to do anything more.
Ms G didnt agree and so the matter  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand it must be very upsetting and frustrating for Ms G to have  lost her money to a 
scammer. But what I need to decide here is whether HSBC has done anything wrong that 
has caused Mrs G to lose out. Essentially, whether it should have done  more to prevent the 
payment or recover Mrs Gs funds.
Both parties  accept that Ms G made the disputed payment herself  upon  the belief that she 
was paying for accommodation. This means  that the payment was authorised, and I 
understand that at the time of making the payment, Ms G wanted it to go ahead.  So, whilst 
she was the victim of a scam, the starting point  in law is that HSBC was obliged to follow her 
instruction and process the payment, so Mrs G isnt automatically entitled to a refund.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Ref: DRN24967782Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
Having considered the above, Im not persuaded that HSBC ought to have done more, I say 
this because:
Ms G authorised the payment  and it was made correctly  in line with her instructions.
The payment  was not significantly out of character for her account   given she had 
made similar payments for over a thousand pounds  before.
The value of the payment itself would not typically require greater scrutiny.
The payment  would not have  appeared suspicious and so I dont think it would be 
reasonable to expect  HSBC to have been aware Ms G may be the victim of a scam.
Ive also thought about HSBCs actions once  it became aware  of the disputed payment. As 
the receiving account was also with HSBC it has direct access to the information for that 
account. Its confirmed  that £1,860 was removed from the account  a few hours before Ms G 
reported her concerns. And its credited Ms G with the remaining funds in the account.
I understand this is only a small portion  of her losses, but unfortunately it was all that 
remained. I appreciate  HSBC could have been  clearer and informed Ms G sooner that she 
wouldnt be receiving more than this, but that doesnt mean  HSBC  is required to provide 
Ms G with a refund from its own funds here. Whilst it may have added to Ms Gs frustration, I 
think the material cause  of her distress  was the scam itself and loss of her funds. So, I dont 
think HSBC needs  to do anything more in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Stephanie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2496778