K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC started to apply charges to their business 
account, delayed  the sale of a property and provided poor customer  service.
background 
Mr B represents both business partners in this complaint. He says he was in the process  of 
selling a business property in February  2019. Hed asked Lloyds for the redemption figure for 
his loan. Lloyds  accepts it did not initially respond to him or his solicitor.  The sale still went  
through but with a delay.  Lloyds offered  to pay £250 in compensation and has refunded  the 
extra interest paid on the borrowing of £46.51. Mr B was also unhappy that bank charges 
started to be applied to their business current account after a long period of free banking. 
And that a part of his complaint about  the amount of security Lloyds was holding  for the 
borrowing could not be dealt with by the person he spoke to in the complaints team.
Our investigator recommended that Mr and Mrs B now be paid a total of £500  in 
compensation. He said that:
-We could not consider  a complaint about  the amount of security held as Lloyds had 
not looked into this yet.
-He thought that the compensation for the issue with the redemption was reasonable 
and this was still available to be paid.
-Hed been told by Lloyds in August 2019  that the business account would remain  fee 
free as it had been for a number of years. He gave  that information  to Mr B only to be 
told by Lloyds the next day that this was not correct  and charges would be applied.
-He recommended the further compensation of £250, making a total of £500 to reflect  
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by this and Lloyds agreed to pay the higher 
amount.
-The questions Mr B was asking about  the security held could not be dealt with by the 
complaints team  as this required detailed knowledge of his business.  So it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to say to Mr B that he needed to speak to a relationship 
manager.
Mr B did not agree  and wanted  his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  He did not 
think that this service had done enough to help them.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 December  2019  and asked  for 
comments by 30 January 2020.  I set out below  what I said.
Id asked Lloyds  for some  more information  about  the charges. I noted  evidence that one of 
its relationship managers  had sent an internal email in April 2019 stating that he had spoken  
to Mr B and agreed to remove all charges going  forward as he has this agreement 
already. A refund had been  made and the support team contacted. I asked Lloyds to 
provide copies of any correspondence with Mr B about this and letting him know if that 
arrangement had changed  and with appropriate  notice. Id also noted that section 8.5 of the 
loan agreement stated  that Mr and Mrs B had to have a current account to service the loan. 
Id asked Lloyds  to confirm whether if this was only used as a feeder account for the loan 
there would still be any fees charged.
Ref: DRN24248902Lloyds did not provide  any more  evidence and it responded  to say that its policy  is not to 
offer fee free banking  on commercial current accounts. And that individual relationship  
managers can make specific allowances and agree to waive or supress charges. Mr B had 
benefitted from such an arrangement for some time. But that charges are now being  applied 
as they should be. As this is not part of the terms and conditions of the account  no notice 
was required of the change. The current account  could be reclassified as a loan servicing 
account with no charges  if thats all it was going to be used for.
my assessment
I understood Lloyds  policy and that it generally has the commercial  discretion to set charges 
under the terms  and conditions of the account.  It had provided  fee free banking for some  
years. And when  Mr B first complained  about  charges being applied in February  2019  these 
were refunded the same day. His conversation  with the relationship manager clearly  
followed from that complaint and was included within the Lloyds complaint file as part of the 
resolution. With that in mind Im struggling  to understand how Lloyds  position  on the 
charges materially changed  and especially during the currency of the referral of the 
complaint to this service.  That was to the extent that Lloyds gave contradictory information to 
our investigator in August 2019  which he then passed on to Mr B in good  faith causing  
understandable upset.
I took it from Lloyds response that nothing about this charging arrangement  has been 
written down. I said I was looking here at whats fair and reasonable and I didnt think  
seeking to change that arrangement four months  after it was reconfirmed was fair or in line 
with the legitimate expectation of Mr B. Any change ought to have been communicated  to 
him and Lloyds has had the opportunity to show that it was. And given what  seems to be the 
unclear nature of the arrangement I considered Mr B could also fairly expect to be given the 
same notice of an agreement ending as he would  of changes generally  to charges under the 
terms and conditions of the account   that is to say at least two months.  That would allow   
Mr B to take action to mitigate these  charges  especially as Id now had confirmation for him 
that he could move the transactional banking  and not incur charges on a simple loan 
servicing current account.
Lloyds has made its position  on charges for Mr and Mrs B clear  and I needed  to decide how 
to deal with the impact.  I provisionally decided that Lloyds should not fairly apply charges 
until a period two months after the date of my final decision on this complaint. That allows  
Mr B to provide any more  evidence about the complaint and seek  to persuade me of a 
different outcome. But then if I remained of the view that charges are going to be applied  this 
gives him time to make other  arrangements for the transactional  banking  should be wish to. I 
also did not think that the compensation  reflects  the distress and inconvenience  of the error 
with the charges in February  2019  and then the conflicting information  hes been given 
since. I therefore intended to increase compensation relating to the issue  with the charges to 
£350. 
I didnt have anything  to add to whats been  said about the other delay in confirming the 
agreement about  the sale of a property. I thought the compensation for that is reasonable. 
And I agreed  that it was only the relationship manager who could later confirm what  was 
required in terms of other security and review the overall  position.  To the extent Mr B was 
not happy with that Id then think it reasonable for the complaints team  to be involved.  As our 
investigator has said thats not in itself a complaint were looking at now.
Ref: DRN24248903my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds said that it accepted my recommendations. It said that it would continue to refund  
charges to achieve this as it could not suppress them.
Mr B spoke to our investigator  in January 2020  on two occasions and said he had comments  
to make.  He said he was unhappy about  a few things and had a query  about charges.  I 
asked that he be contacted again  in March 2020  and he has not responded or requested 
any further extension. I consider he has now had ample and fair opportunity to make his 
comments having confirmed receipt  of my provisional decision and so I will now be making a 
final decision.
There are no further comments beyond those I referred to above or of any further evidence 
and I see no reason to depart from my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
1)Pay Mr and Mrs B total compensation of £600 (which  is in addition to the refund  of 
interest of £46.12  already made).
2)Not to apply  the bank  charges to the business  current account until a date two 
months after the date of the decision on this complaint. That will mean it will need to 
refund all further charges that have  been applied since April 2019 and refund any 
current charges until that future date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 May 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2424890