K821x#15complaint
Ms H says PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 7 short term loans Mr Lender provided to Ms H between July 2016  
and January 2018. Details of the 7 loans are as follows:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Amount
1 25/07/2016 14/10/2016 200.00
2 20/10/2016 23/11/2016 200.00
3 02/12/2016 11/01/2017 430.00
4 10/02/2017 15/06/2017 200.00
5 16/06/2017 22/09/2017 200.00
6 01/10/2017 16/01/2018 200.00
7 18/01/2018 22/03/2018 200.00
The loans were  typically to be repaid  over 3 instalments. Ms H has repaid them. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Hs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan 5 onwards  
shouldnt have been given. Mr Lender  didnt  respond so the complaint has been passed  to 
me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN29553542refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Ms H could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Hs complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, that there  was nothing to indicate Mr 
Lender needed to do more when  it approved  loans 1-4. This was early on in the lending 
relationship between the two parties and the repayments for these loans would have  
seemed affordable based on what Ms H had told it. So I dont think Mr Lender was wrong to 
give these loans to Ms H.
Ive then looked at the overall  pattern of Mr Lenders  lending history with Ms H, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Hs case, I think that this point  was reached at loan 
5. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender  ought  to have realised  Ms H was not managing  to repay  her 
loans sustainably. Ms H had taken out 4 loans within  7 months.  I think it was more  
likely than not Ms H had to borrow further to cover the hole repaying  her previous 
loan(s) was leaving in her finances.
Ms H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Mr Lender. Mr Lender 
ought to have known that Ms H was not likely borrowing to meet  a temporary  shortfall 
in her income but to meet an ongoing  need.  Ms H had paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect; service  a debt to Mr Lender over an extended period.
I think this pattern of lending should have alerted Mr Lender to the likelihood  that Ms 
H was having  problems managing her money. I think  that Mr Lender shouldve  been 
concerned that Ms H might be borrowing elsewhere  to repay  its loans, again 
increasing her indebtedness unsustainably.
Ref: DRN29553543I think that Ms H lost out because Mr Lender  continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Hs indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
The number of loans  was likely to have had negative implications on Ms Hs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Ms Hs complaint from loans 5 onwards (loans  5-7) and because of this, Mr 
Lender should put things  right. 
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms H paid on loans 5 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan 5 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse, so all entries about  loans 5, 6 and 7 should  be removed from 
Ms Hs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest.  Mr Lender must  give 
Ms H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Hs complaint. PDL Finance Limited  
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Ms H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020. 
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2955354