K820x#14complaint
Miss N has complained that CIS General Insurance Limited, trading as Co-Op Insurance 
(CIS) offered to settle a motor insurance claim another  driver  made  against her following an 
accident and recorded a fault  claim on her own insurance record.
Miss N wants  the claim to be amended to non-fault as she feels she wasnt  responsible  for 
the incident. Miss N has also expressed doubts  about the validity of the other drivers 
personal injury claim. 
background
Miss N was involved in an accident  with another  vehicle in July 2018. The other  driver  
claimed against her policy for personal  injury damages. 
Miss Ns recollection of the accident  is that she was stopped at give way lines to allow  
another driver  to turn right. Miss N recalls  that the other driver  struggled to turn, cut the 
corner and scraped the front bumper  and front drivers side corner of her vehicle. 
The other drivers recollection  was that Miss N didnt stop to let them  turn in  causing the 
collision. 
CIS, initially proposed  to settle the claim as shared liability. Miss N felt she wasnt  at fault 
and initially  didnt accept  what  CIS proposed. The other drivers insurer felt that Miss N was 
fully at fault and began court proceedings. 
Following legal advice,  CIS settled  the other drivers  claim without accepting  that Miss N was 
at fault - to avoid  going to court. Miss N referred her complaint to our Service. Our 
investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss N is unhappy with our investigators  assessment as she has disputed the other drivers 
injury claim as she says that her vehicle was stationary and that the claim shouldnt  be 
recorded as a fault claim. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be deciding who was actually  responsible  for the accident or if the third party 
personal injury claim is legitimate as that is a matter that court is better  placed  to decide.
Ill be deciding if I think CIS acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions in doing so.
Under the terms of this Miss Ns insurance policy,  it states:
We are entitled under  this policy to;
oTake over and conduct the defence and settlement  of any claim in your 
name
Ref: DRN23312632Therefore, in my opinion,  CIS did act within  the policy terms when  making the decision to 
settle the claim on Miss Ns behalf.
How CIS came to its decision to settle the claim
Ive then considered  if CIS acted fairly and reasonably - based  on the available evidence,  
when coming to its decision to settle the claim. 
As there was no CCTV or independent  witnesses CIS didnt think it would be able to prove  in 
court that it was most  likely Miss N wasnt responsible for the accident. This is because  the 
legal advice that CIS received was that a court would likely find Miss N at fault or partly  at 
fault as it appeared she was in breach of the Highway Code. Specifically, the Code states 
that where there are give way markings on a road;  .You  must  give way to traffic  on the 
main road when emerging from a junction  with broken white lines across the road.  
Miss N provided photos taken shortly after the incident happened. CIS said these photos 
show that even  if, as Miss N has said, her vehicle was stationary, at least  part of her vehicle 
was past the markings  that it should  have been  behind. 
I appreciate Miss N doesnt  see how the other driver  would have been injured in the 
accident. But a medical report was also provided  regarding the injury claim to support the 
third partys  claim. So it would have  been  unlikely that CIS could dispute that the other driver 
wasnt injured, or was exaggerating their claim,  if the case  went to court.  
In my opinion, having considered all of the available evidence,  the decision taken by CIS to 
settle the claim was fair and reasonable. By that I mean  the decision to settle  the claim was 
made when  it appeared more likely than not the claim against  Miss N could  succeed  in court. 
How the claim  has been  recorded
Miss N has also complained about  how the claim has been  recorded on her insurance 
record. Claims are known  as fault claims when an insurer  hasnt  recovered  all its costs in 
dealing with the claim. This is important as an insurer recording a claim as fault  doesnt  
always mean that the insured party is fully or partly  responsible for the claim thats  been  
made  just that the insurer hadnt  been able to recover the money its paid out. 
So, even though the claim has been  recorded as fault,  this doesnt mean that Miss N is at 
fault for the incident. And even if this claim had been settled 50/50 it would still be known   
as a fault claim as CIS wouldnt have  recovered all of its costs.  
So I think that CIS acted  fairly and reasonably in line with the terms and conditions  of this 
policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint against  CIS General Insurance  
Limited, trading  as Co-Op Insurance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October  2019.
Ref: DRN23312633Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2331263