K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains that the assumptions HSBC  UK Bank Plc has used when calculating  some 
redress due to him are incorrect. As a result  he says the compensation he has been  offered 
is less than it should be.
background 
Mr E was a member of his employers occupational pension scheme. In February 1992 he 
opted out of that scheme and opened  a personal pension with HSBC. Mr E re-joined his 
occupational scheme in January 1997.  Although HSBC  has no record  that Mr E left the 
occupational scheme as a result of advice  hed received from the bank it accepts that is the 
most likely reason. So, following a complaint from Mr E in 2016, it offered, in February 2017, 
to compensate him for the losses that the decision to opt out had caused.
But around the time of Mr Es complaint the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), was updating  its guidance on how redress  should be calculated in circumstances 
such as these. So, in line with best practice, HSBC made an interim compensation payment 
to Mr E, that he accepted, and agreed to make a further assessment of his losses after the 
new guidance had been issued.
In June 2018 HSBC concluded  a further calculation  of Mr Es losses.  It wrote to him offering 
a further compensation payment of £30,862.61. And it provided Mr E with some information  
about the assumptions its actuaries had used when performing those calculations. It is those 
assumptions that have  caused Mr E to make  this complaint.
HSBC says that, in line with the relevant guidance,  it has estimated that Mr E will leave his 
employer in March  2031. At that time Mr E will be around 58 years  old. Mr E says that he 
has no intention of leaving his employer before his normal retirement age of 65. And he says 
that the rules  of his occupational scheme  give him no right to retire  before that age without 
the consent of his employer. So he says, based  on the revised  FCA guidance of 2017,  
HSBC should  use his 65th birthday as his leaving date when performing its calculations.
Mr Es complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She explained that the 
calculation of redress in circumstances  such as these was complex.  That was the reason 
that businesses  such as HSBC employed  actuaries to perform that work and she was happy 
that HSBCs actuaries were competent  to do that work. She looked at the assumptions that 
had been used in making the calculations and thought that they fairly reflected  both the 
regulators guidance and Mr Es circumstances. So she thought the additional compensation 
HSBC had offered  to Mr E was fair and reasonable.
Mr E didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Ref: DRN21645292As our adjudicator explained, this Service isnt able to provide  a detailed check  of the 
calculations performed by HSBCs actuary.  Those  calculations are complex and specialised. 
However the Service is confident that the actuary is able to perform those calculations  
correctly and so the results that are produced are likely to be a reasonable and fair 
determination of any detriment that has been suffered. For ease I will generally refer in this 
decision to any calculations as having been  performed by HSBC.
Here, HSBC has accepted that it is most  likely  responsible for advising Mr E to opt out of his 
occupational pension scheme  in 1992. And as I said earlier it has calculated the detriment 
that Mr E has suffered from that decision. It paid an interim amount to Mr E in 2017  and has 
offered a further  payment  in 2018. Although Mr E hasnt accepted that additional  payment to 
date, HSBC has confirmed that it remains available to him.
Ultimately this complaint  revolves around  the assumed date for Mr E leaving his employment 
that has been used by HSBC in its calculations. The date that was used is 1 March 2031. At 
that time Mr E will be around 58 years of age. But Mr E says that he has no intention of 
leaving his employer before his normal retirement age of 65. And he says that the rules of 
his occupational scheme give him no right to retire before that age without the consent of his 
employer.
The calculation of this date has been  based  on guidance provided by the regulator  some 
20 years  ago. I think it is important here to be clear that the choice of this date does not 
imply that Mr E will cease  work altogether at that time. Instead it was an attempt by the 
regulator to reflect that many  consumers will not remain with a single employer until they 
retire. Instead they will change jobs and have further  opportunities to consider their pension  
provision. 
I think that distinction is echoed in the guidance HSBC shared with Mr E when he made his 
complaint. HSBC explained  that the approach  to calculating the assumed leaving date had 
been set out by the regulator.  It told Mr E that guidance  was only varied when the assumed 
leaving date was within 12 months of the expected  retirement  date. If that was the case 
HSBC would use the expected retirement date instead. So that clearly  suggests that two 
different dates are relevant here  the date of leaving  and the date of retirement.
I think it is reasonable that HSBC has used the guidance  to determine an assumed leaving 
date. I appreciate that assumed date might seem to be unlikely to Mr E given what he knows 
about his circumstances now. But his circumstances could change over the coming years for 
a number of reasons. And of course  these calculations are being performed to understand 
what the likely loss would be arising from a decision he took almost 30 years  ago. At that 
time I think it would  have been  even more difficult to predict with any certainty how long he 
would remain with his employer.
Mr E has pointed  us towards some  specific sections of the updated  guidance that was 
issued by the regulator in October 2017.  In particular he says that guidance defines  at what 
age a consumer  should be expected to have retired from their pension scheme. And based  
on what I know of Mr Es occupational scheme  I would agree  with him that an age of 65 
should be used  here. But HSBC has confirmed  that is the age it has used  when calculating  
the age at which Mr E would take his pension benefits  or in other words his date of 
retirement. That date is naturally different  to the assumed  leaving  date from the employer. 
As I said earlier that date is designed  to reflect that many consumers  do not remain  with the 
same employer until retirement.
Ref: DRN21645293So on balance I havent seen anything that would  make me conclude  that the assumptions 
HSBC used when  calculating the compensation due to Mr E were  unfair  or out of line with 
the relevant guidance from the regulator.  It follows that I think the additional compensation 
that Mr E has been offered is fair and reasonable. It is now up to Mr E to decide whether or 
not to accept that final sum.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I think the offer of compensation that HSBC UK Bank Plc has 
made to Mr E is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It follows therefore  that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.  
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2164529