K820x#14complaint
L, a limited company, complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (trading as Lloyds Bank Cardnet)  is 
wrongly asking it to pay a debt it doesnt owe. L is represented by its director,  who Ill call 
Mr J. Mr J asks that Lloyds corrects Ls account and credit files.
background
Mr J says L cancelled its card terminal contract  with Lloyds  in 2016. It owed Lloyds about 
£29 which  Mr J said hed sent to Lloyds. Lloyds didnt receive the payment and recorded a 
default on Ls credit file. When  he brought the complaint to us, Mr J agreed  that L owes this. 
But Mr J says when he contacted Lloyds collections team he was told L owes £440.  He says 
Lloyds didnt provide evidence of this. Mr J says hes also found out that Lloyds has reported 
late payments to a credit  reference agency which he cant understand as L doesnt  have an 
active account with Lloyds.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Lloyds had 
sent notices to the address in its file. It gave L an opportunity to pay before recording the 
default in 2016. The investigator  said it seemed  likely  the larger amounts mentioned  by the 
collections team and the late payment  markers related to a debt owed to a different business  
in the Lloyds group.
L didnt agree. Mr J provided emails with Lloyds Cardnet and a credit reference  agency to 
support what hed said.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Im satisfied from the available evidence that L owed a debt to Lloyds. Im also satisfied that 
Lloyds wrote to L about the debt, using  the address in its records. Lloyds didnt receive 
payment for the debt and it recorded a default  on Ls credit file. I dont think this was 
inaccurate or unfair.
Lloyds has confirmed that the debt owed in relation to its Cardnet service  (about £29) has 
been paid. 
Mr J says when he contacted Lloyds collections team he was told he owed more.  Lloyds 
says this is because  of a debt owed  by L to another business in the Lloyds  group.  If Mr J 
needs more information about this, he should  contact Lloyds collections team. 
Mr J says Lloyds recorded information  which means  Ls credit report  says the days  beyond  
terms value has increased  from 2 to 8 for your business. Mr J provided email  exchanges 
with a credit  reference  agency which he says shows this was recorded  by Lloyds on Ls 
Cardnet account.  Lloyds  Cardnet says it has no information about this.
Ref: DRN21235262I appreciate Mr Js frustration. Given that Lloyds  had recorded a default on Ls Cardnet 
account in 2016, I cant  see why it would  record late payments in late 2018. I dont find the 
available evidence sufficiently clear as to whether Lloyds recorded inaccurate information  on 
Ls credit file. I havent seen evidence that late payments recorded on this account  which  
was already shown  as defaulted  caused any loss to L. 
As the account  has now been paid, the details on the credit  file should be updated to reflect  
this. Otherwise, in the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Lloyds 
to amend the information it recorded  on Ls credit file in relation to the Cardnet Account.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2123526