K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained Nationwide Building  Society wont refund him for five transactions 
which he didnt authorise.
background
In November 2018 Mr O was on holiday with friends. Theyd been out to a bar. Hed 
accidentally left his wallet and phone there before  moving  on to another bar. After  realising 
what hed done  a bit later, he retraced his steps.  He got back to the original bar where he 
was reunited with his wallet and phone. He and his friends went  back to the hotel around 
midnight.
The following  day his Nationwide credit card was declined when he was at the airport trying 
to buy something.  Mr O contacted Nationwide on his return. They  told him thered been five 
transactions totalling nearly £4,200 plus exchange  fees that had taken place in the early 
hours of the morning  a couple  of days before  in a nightclub. Mr O said this hadnt been him 
as hed been back in his hotel by then. And in any case his phone  and wallet  had been 
missing during the evening so he thought something  may have happened  then.
Nationwide felt Mr O had made the transactions himself.  After declining  two transactions,  
theyd sent Mr O a text asking whether these were  genuine transactions. Theyd got a 
response back so felt theyd not done  anything wrong.
Mr O brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He was also able to confirm that his 
other bank  had refunded him following his fraud  claim  with them  for transactions  in the same 
nightclub.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence of the transactions including Mr Os phone calls with 
Nationwide. Overall she felt the evidence showed his genuine card and PIN had been used. 
Although thered been a time his card was out of possession  when he left it in the other bar 
 by the time of the disputed transactions, Mr O had told us he was in his hotel with his 
wallet and phone. She wasnt  going  to ask Nationwide to refund Mr O.
Mr O disagreed with this outcome. Hed never  used  his credit card in this way before so 
didnt see why anyone  thought he would  now.  He was being  left with a massive bill to repay  
which would cause him financial problems. Hes asked  an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.
Ref: DRN28016712So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both Nationwide and Mr O have told us. Our investigator also got hold of copies of 
Mr Os calls to Nationwide  during this period. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 12 November 2019. I dont intend to 
repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
The following  issues  are those that Ive considered in coming to my decision:
Theres no dispute about the timing  of the disputed transactions.  These  started after 
03:25 local time with the last successful transaction being made at 06:49.
Mr O may well have  temporarily lost his wallet and phone earlier that evening  but 
hes told us he was back at the hotel by midnight. Even allowing for a margin  of error,  
Mr O hasnt suggested he was still up and awake  at 03:00 hours.
The genuine card and PIN were used for these transactions. So even if Mr Os card 
had been taken from his wallet earlier in the evening, hes never  suggested he didnt 
get it back. And we know that he attempted  to use it later that day at the airport  (at 
13:17 and 13:18).
No unknown fraudster  is going to take a card for use in a nightclub  and then return it 
later on  particularly  as Mr O was in his hotel and how would  anyone  know  where 
that was.
Nationwide quickly identified the use of the card as unusual.  They  sent a text to 
Mr Os mobile  at 03:46 local time and got a response within  five minutes.
Mr O has said this wasnt him. He was by this stage asleep in his hotel room 
according to his story and his phone was with him.
Im afraid the facts according to the evidence and what  Mr O has told us just dont 
stack up. Overall I have  no reason not to believe what  the evidence  is showing.
Im aware Mr Os other bank  refunded  disputed  transactions at the same  bar. I dont 
think they did this after carrying  out any detailed investigation but I have considered 
this aspect too.
I am satisfied Mr O authorised these  transactions. I wont be asking Nationwide to do 
anything further.
I appreciate the difficulty Mr O is now in as hes being  asked to pay a substantial credit card 
bill. Nationwide is obliged to treat anyone who finds themselves  in financial difficulty  fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Os complaint against 
Nationwide Building  Society. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Ref: DRN28016713Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2801671