K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) for sending  information 
regarding his savings  account to his wife, when she is not a party  to the account. He wants  
Nationwides information to be updated  and compensation for his inconvenience. 
background
Mr P is a long standing customer of Nationwide. 
In June 2002, Mr P opened a flex account, which was opened and held in the names  of both 
Mr P and his wife. 
In July 2002, Mr P opened an online savings account. This was only ever accessed by him, 
and log in details  were not made available to Mr Ps wife. 
In 2003, Mr P opened a second flex account,  in his sole name.  
In 2015, Mr P and his wife closed the jointly held account, leaving a current  account  and 
savings account,  which Mr P believed were  in his sole name.  
Subsequently, Nationwide has sent annual statements  of Mr Ps savings account addressed  
to Mr Ps wife. Mr P and his wife have separate finances so Mr P is unhappy with this. 
Mr P complained to Nationwide in September 2018.  
Nationwide sent an initial response to Mr P in November 2018, and then its final response  
later that month. 
Nationwide set out that the savings account was opened as a joint account, based upon 
Mr P and his wifes existing account.  
Nationwide therefore  advised that Mr Ps wife is an account holder for the savings account 
and provided information  on how Mr Ps wife could be removed from the account. 
Mr P was not happy with this and contacted us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this complaint  and set out her view to the parties. 
This was that Nationwide had not done  anything significantly wrong and the investigator  did 
not recommend  Nationwide  do anything  further.
Mr P made some additional comments to the investigator, who responded to these  
comments but did not alter her view. 
Mr P did not accept the investigators view, so the complaint  has been passed  for an 
ombudsman decision.  
Ref: DRN22673372my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ps concerns, in that he thinks that information about his finances is being 
disclosed to someone,  after he believed their authority to access information as cancelled.  I 
can appreciate that this would be worrying. 
However, the evidence  that has been  provided  shows that the jointly  held account was in 
place before Mr P applied  for the online savings account, and was used  as the basis for the 
account to be opened. 
The savings account was therefore  opened off the back  of the joint account  and the 
account holder  information was carried over to it. 
The joint account  was subsequently closed, but that does not mean that all linked accounts  
would have been closed or the information altered automatically. 
Mr P has subsequently opened  another  account with Nationwide and this is held in his sole 
name. Information regarding this account does not appear to have been sent to Mr Ps wife. 
I can appreciate why Mr P would  not have expected his wife to continue to be an account  
holder, including for the reasons he gave that she has not accessed  log in details  or a card 
for the account,  but I do not think he has been misled by Nationwide. Many people  are 
parties to accounts  without ever accessing them, yet they continue  to remain  account 
holders until removed formally. 
As Mr Ps wife was a named account  holder of the savings  account I do not criticise 
Nationwide for sending annual statements and member information addressed to her. 
Nationwide has provided information to Mr P about how Mr Ps wife can be removed  from 
the account and it is open  to them to do this. He has commented that it is unfair that he is 
being asked for permission  from his wife to conduct  his finances, but I do not agree that that 
is what is being required. The account was opened jointly, whether that was Mr Ps intention 
or not, and has been held jointly for a number of years.  It is reasonable for Nationwide  to ask 
for joint consent to change the account  holders  of that account. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigators  view and do not ask Nationwide Building  
Society to do anything further.  
I realise that this decision will be disappointing  to Mr P but I hope  my reasons  are clear. 
Ref: DRN22673373my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint and do not ask Nationwide 
Building Society to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2267337