K822xcomplaint
Mr W is unhappy with his home insurer Ageas Insurance Limited  because  his carpet was 
damaged when the lounge ceiling came down but it wouldnt pay for replacement  of the 
whole carpet.
background 
Mr Ws lounge  ceiling  came down, the carpet under  the area of fall was damaged.  Mr W has 
a through lounge dining room with carpeting  running  continuously throughout. Ageas 
accepted the claim but said it would only pay for the lounge area of carpet to be replaced.  It 
said that due to a policy  condition it wasnt liable  for the area of carpet in the dining room. 
Mr W complained  to us. Our investigator noted that the carpet  was a whole piece, it wasnt 
two pieces of matching  carpet and it wasnt separated  at all. He said Ageas reliance on the 
condition was unfair and it should  replace the entire carpet. Ageas disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The condition says if you have a matching carpet.in more than one room  or area,  each 
room or area will be regarded as being  separate.only damage to the carpet in the room or 
area where  the damage happened  will be covered. Ageas says that as the rooms  are 
separate, and clearly  separate areas,  it can, in accordance with the policy  condition  only 
settle for the lounge carpet. 
I understand why Ageas  thinks it can rely on the policy  condition  to restrict its settlement  
but it is wrong in this respect. Mr W doesnt  have one carpet in the lounge with a matching 
carpet in the dining  room. He has one carpet.  That carpet is damaged.  Ageas fairly  and 
reasonably has to provide settlement for the whole carpet.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Ageas  Insurance Limited to settle the part of Mr Ws claim 
for his whole carpet.
Ref: DRN24097962Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2409796