K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with how National Westminster Bank Plc has dealt with his request for 
refunds under the direct debit guarantee. He wants NatWest to refund these payments, with 
interest. Mr M also wants the bank to compensate him as a gesture of goodwill for the 
distress its caused him. 
background
Mr M asked  NatWest to refund direct debit payments  he made from his bank account to two 
different businesses. One was a mobile  phone operator. The other business was a finance 
company. The direct  debit  payments were made  between November 2010  and August 2011.  
Mr M told us he was working abroad during this period. He set up the direct debits but didnt 
know his parents were  also making  payments. This meant  they were  duplicated.  
At the end of 2018/beginning of 2019, Mr M asked NatWest to refund these payments under 
the direct  debit guarantee scheme.  But the bank said it needed the Originators Identification 
Number and the reference number for these payments.  Due to how long ago the payments 
were made, NatWest no longer had this information.  When Mr M got in touch  with the 
relevant businesses, they no longer  had this information either. 
When NatWest didnt  refund these  payments,  Mr M complained. It repeated  that without the 
missing information, it couldnt refund these payments to him. NatWest  accepted  it had given 
Mr M inconsistent information about  these refunds  and hed had a poor experience when he 
complained. NatWest apologised to Mr M and paid him £50 for this, along with £27 to cover 
his call costs. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this, so he brought his complaint to us. At that time he told us it was 
around January  2017 that he first realised his parents were also making  these payments. 
Mr M also told us he believed  he first raised this issue  with NatWest in December 2018/ 
January 2019.  
One of our adjudicators looked  into this issue. In short, he said that without the Originators 
Identification Number and reference  number, he didnt think NatWest  needed  to refund the 
direct debit payments.  The adjudicator also thought the total of £77 NatWest  had already 
paid to Mr M was fair and reasonable. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this. In brief, he said: the adjudicator hadnt  investigated all of his 
complaint; no mention  was made  of a call Mr M made to NatWest in 2017; and, if NatWest 
had correctly dealt  with his refund request at that time, he wouldnt be in the situation  hes 
now in. 
NatWest couldnt  trace the call from Mr M from 2017. In any event,  our adjudicator  didnt 
think it needed to do anything else. As Mr M didnt accept our adjudicators  view,  his 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN26862372But first, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly  and in my own words.  No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the key issue  here:  
did NatWest act fairly and reasonably when refusing to refund the direct debit payments to 
Mr M? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  point or argument  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M has mentioned receiving other direct debit refunds  dating  back to a similar period and 
in similar  circumstances. But I would make it clear  here that Ive taken into account  the 
individual circumstances  of this complaint.
Ill now turn to the direct debit refunds. Broadly, the direct debit guarantee provides 
protection if there is an error in processing  a direct  debit. This includes payments: not being 
authorised; being  taken  on the wrong  date; or being taken for the wrong amount. The 
guarantee isnt there to try and address contractual disputes. 
When Mr M spoke  to NatWest at the end of 2018/beginning of 2019,  the bank tried to find 
the details to process his refund request. Unsurprisingly, given the original dates of these 
payments, it didnt have  all necessary details. Specifically, it no longer had the Originators 
Identification Number and reference  number. 
NatWest has explained  that direct  debit information is only kept on its systems for 13 months  
after the last payment. I dont think this is out of step with general industry practice.  The bank 
still has a record of these  payments  being made from Mr Ms account, as I would expect it to. 
Mr M has questioned why the bank has deleted the information that stops him getting a 
refund, but still has records of the actual direct  debit. I dont think  theres anything  untoward 
in this. The rules  around data protection dont specify a set period of time that different types  
of data, such as Originators Identification Numbers, must  be kept. 
In general terms, data shouldnt be kept for any longer than its actually needed.  Where  a 
direct debit is no longer  in use, deleting this information after 13 months doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me. 
Similarly, I would  expect  a banks records for individual customer accounts, to go back  
further than this. So while NatWest can show that Mr M made  the direct debit payments from 
his account, I dont think its unusual that it no longer  holds the specific,  underlying detail  for 
each payment.
 
Im also satisfied that without the Originators Identification Number  and reference number, it 
was reasonable  for NatWest to ask Mr M to contact the relevant businesses  for this 
information. 
Ill now turn to the phone  call Mr M told us he made  to NatWest in 2017.  There  seems to 
have initially  been  some confusion over this. He originally told us he first realised  there was 
a problem with duplicate payments in January 2017. He believed  he first raised this with 
NatWest in December  2018/January 2019. 
Ref: DRN26862373Mr M then told us hed called NatWest around  a year earlier - shortly after 28 December 
2016. He says NatWest  told him to contact the businesses involved.  Mr M also says that if 
the bank had made him aware at that time that there  was a danger that information would 
have been deleted, the chain of events  wouldnt have  unfolded  as they did. 
NatWest havent  been  unable to trace this call. Ive looked at its call search records.  Im 
satisfied the bank made a thorough search for Mr Ms call. I accept he made this call when 
he said he did. But as this means the call was made some two years before we were  aware 
of it, Im not surprised the bank cant locate it  even if its been able to find other call 
recordings. 
But Im satisfied that this call doesnt affect  the outcome of this complaint in anyway. I say 
this because the available evidence shows that the direct debit payments to the businesses 
involved here, stopped being  taken towards the latter part of 2011.  
This means,  when Mr M spoke to NatWest shortly  after 28 December 2016, it was already 
more than five years  after the direct debit payments had stopped. Whatever the bank did or 
didnt tell him, at this point the bank  no longer  had the necessary information to process  the 
refund in any event.  So, Im satisfied NatWest acted fairly and reasonably when it asked 
Mr M to go back to the businesses and ask for the missing information. 
Its unfortunate, but again not surprising, that due to the passage  of time, neither business  
could give Mr M its Originators  Identification  Number or reference  number. He told us that 
as none of this is his fault, his complaint should be partially upheld.  I agree that not being  
able to get the necessary  information isnt his fault.  But that doesnt mean it is NatWests 
fault. It seems to be purely  down to the information no longer being  available due to the 
passage of time. Im unable to uphold his complaint on that basis.  
It seems  to me that the issue of Mr M making  more  payments than were due to the mobile 
phone operator  and the finance company respectively, is more in the nature of a contractual 
dispute with those businesses. As above,  the direct debit guarantee isnt designed  to deal 
with such contractual  disputes. 
Finally, Mr M told us that the poor service  he received from NatWest when dealing with him 
is a totally separate  issue to the complaint he raised  with our service  that is, the banks 
refusal to refund the direct  debit payments. As above, NatWest apologised to Mr M, paid him 
£50 compensation  for the poor service, and also £27 to cover  the cost of the calls he made  
to the bank. 
For completeness, Im satisfied this was fair and reasonable. I say this because,  while I can 
appreciate that Mr M has been very frustrated by NatWests actions, this poor service  didnt 
affect the outcome of his complaint. The level of service provided by the bank didnt mean it 
failed to refund the payments to Mr M when it should have. As above, the bank has 
apologised, paid compensation and covered his telephone costs. In these circumstances, I 
think this is sufficient. 
In summary,  as outlined  above, Im satisfied NatWest acted fairly and reasonably  when it 
didnt refund the requested direct  debit payments to Mr M.
Ref: DRN26862374my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2686237