K820x#14complaint
Mrs N is unhappy that National House-Building Council (NHBC) wont cover  damage to her 
home under her building warranty.
background
Mrs N bought her home in April 2017 from a previous owner.  At the time the property was 
four years old with the benefit of a warranty with NHBC. Soon after moving in, Mrs N 
discovered that rain was pooling on her balcony and coming off the edge, saturating  the wall 
of a storeroom beneath it. She made a claim to NHBC  under the part 3 (years 3 to 10) 
coverage of her warranty. NHBC came  out and inspected but ultimately concluded that any 
damage was caused by a defect in a part of the property not covered  by the warranty  ie the 
balcony. It also pointed  out that guttering and above ground drainage are also not covered 
under the warranty.
Mrs N felt that NHBC should be responsible  it carried out the inspections  on the property 
and for building control. She advised that a builder  had told her that the work  required to 
repair the damage would be to put in a new downpipe and guttering  which would be costly  
because of the design of the building. Mrs N feels that the lack of such  drainage should have 
been noticed by the NHBC  inspectors.
NHBC clarified that it carried out key stage inspections but that the builder  was ultimately  
responsible for the design and build and for complying  with building regulations.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that NHBC had acted  reasonably  the 
defect wasnt to a part of the building  that was covered  under the warranty.
The matter  has been passed to me for my consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NHBC doesn't warrant that any property with the benefit of its warranty is free from defects. 
Instead, in years 3 to 10 of the warranty it will cover defects to certain parts  of the property 
as listed in the warranty where they are causing  physical damage  to the building  and where 
the minimum cost of repairs is above a certain  sum (here £1,472). There  is no doubt  here 
the cost of the repairs would be over £1,472 - Mrs N has quotes for over £4,000.  And there 
is damage to the building  the walls of the storeroom are soaked and there is some water  
coming through the front door. Mrs N says she has been advised  that there may be water 
coming in below floor level in the hall, although  so far there is no evidence of this.
The defect  here is to the balcony (which one of the builders Mrs N consulted  described as 
poorly built)  and/or  the guttering/drainage. The major issue  here is whether there is a defect 
to a part of the building  that is covered under the warranty. As Ive said,  the parts  covered 
under the warranty  are listed in the building  warranty  and defects to balconies  and above 
ground drainage  arent covered. To be clear  the defect must be to a part thats covered. So 
whilst any defect to the load bearing walls of the property may be covered they werent 
defective themselves  even though  they may have  been damaged.
Ref: DRN22755232I understand Mrs Ns point that she feels that NHBC having carried out inspections  of the 
property should  have noticed  that the drainage didnt comply  with the plans of the building. 
NHBC did carry out inspections here  they are done at key stages to ensure the home is fit 
for habitation and also here for building control  purposes. But as it has explained its not 
responsible to the purchaser/ warranty holder for any failure in design  by the builder, nor 
does it warrant that the property  is free from defects.  
Further, in assessing  whether we can look at a complaint against  NHBC I have to be 
satisfied that its a part of a regulated activity   here the carrying  out of a contract of 
insurance. The assessing of the defect/damage  comes within  that contract. But NHBC  also 
carries out a number  of activities that arent part of carrying out a contract of insurance and 
that includes its inspections for the builder. The actual  inspections by NHBC arent covered 
under our jurisdiction and I have no power  to look them.
I realise that my findings will be disappointing news to Mrs N, as the cost of repair is 
expensive. And the seller  really should have  told her about the defect  to the 
guttering/balcony and/or sorted  out the problem with the builder who could have been liable 
in years 1 and 2 of the warranty. But I cant say that in this case NHBC has any liability to 
Mrs N for the damage or repairs to her home.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020. 
Ray Lawley
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN2275523