K822xcomplaint
Mr P has complained about Unum Ltds decision to decline his claim under his employers 
group income protection insurance policy.
background 
Mr P was employed as a maintenance technician and was a member  of his employers 
group income protection insurance policy. The policy would pay benefit  if, after a deferred 
period of 26 weeks, Mr P was unable due to illness or injury to perform either his own 
occupation or another gainful  occupation  to which he was suited.
In August  2017,  Mr P was involved in an accident in which he suffered  fractures  to both 
arms. He stopped working.  His employer later made a claim on his behalf under the policy.
Unum declined the claim. It considered  that by the end of the deferred period, in 
February 2018, Mr P was able to return to work.
Mr P disputed that this was the case and provided further medical evidence. Unum wouldnt 
change its position.   
Mr P eventually returned to work in July 2018. He complained to us about Unums decision 
to decline his claim.
I initially issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold this 
complaint. My findings were as follows:
Let me start with the dispute  between  the investigator and Unum over the interpretation of 
the policy.
Im satisfied that, under the policy  terms, Mr P is eligible for benefit if he is unable to perform  
the material and substantial duties of his insured  occupation and any gainful  occupation to 
which he is reasonably  suited. However, Unum based its decision to decline the claim on the 
belief that Mr P was fit to go back to his insured occupation and didnt seek to argue  that 
there was a different occupation  which he was capable of performing.  In view of this, I cant  
see that the dispute over the meaning  of occupation has any bearing  on the outcome of the 
complaint. I simply need to consider  whether  the evidence shows that Mr P was unable  to 
perform his insured  occupation.
The policy states  that benefit becomes payable when a members  incapacity continues 
beyond the end of the deferred period. I consider that it is implicit from this that the member 
must remain incapacitated throughout the deferred period to be eligible for benefit.   
Let me now turn to the medical issues.
Mr P broke his left wrist, left arm and right elbow. He underwent operations on his injuries.
In November 2017, Mr P reported to his consultant orthopaedic surgeon, Dr S, that his elbow 
felt stable and pain-free. Dr S said I have asked him to take it easy when he goes back to 
work as an electrician as he has to use a screwdriver a lot.
Ref: DRN26002462Later in November 2017, the consultant orthopaedic surgeon treating Mr Ps left wrist, Dr B, 
said his hand  motion  was much improved. She noted that he was still to undergo another  
operation to remove the plate from his wrist. She nonetheless said:  I am happy for him to 
return to work next week.
In early January  2018, Mr P reported to another doctor that he had been using screwdrivers 
at home  and had no pain at the elbow.
It was on the basis  of the above reports that Unum declined the claim. On the face of it, this 
was a reasonable decision.
Mr P didnt return to work before the end of the deferred period. After it had twice  been 
cancelled, he eventually  underwent the further  surgery on his left wrist in mid-February 2018.  
Mr Ps GP continued to certify  Mr P as unfit to work  but, as Unum has observed,  there 
seems to be little explanation  from the GP as to why he considered Mr P was unable to 
return to work. I note that the GP commented at one stage that Mr Ps duration  of absence 
was longer than one would normally expect in his situation.
Mr P was also seen by his employers  occupational  health practitioner, Ms G, on a regular 
basis. At the initial consultation,  in January 2018,  Ms G noted that Mr P was still awaiting his 
surgery to remove the plate in his left wrist; she concluded he was unfit to return  to work. In 
February 2018, hed just had the operation and so Ms G said he was unfit while  recovering 
from this. In March 2018, she said he was unfit because he was reporting  pain and limitation 
of movement in his left wrist. In April 2018, she said Mr P was still unable  to hold small items 
in his left hand for a sustained period and so was unfit for any work  involving maintenance or 
assembly operations.  The next report isnt until early July 2018, at which point Ms G noted 
that Mr P had been increasing his activity  with both hands and had been building a shed at 
home and servicing  a car. She agreed that Mr P should undergo  a workplace  assessment 
with a physiotherapist. This took place later that month and Mr P was judged  fit to return  to 
work carrying out his normal  duties,  albeit on a gradual basis.
I consider that Ms Gs advice has largely  been based on Mr Ps self-reporting of his 
limitations. In particular, its not clear why Mr P was judged unfit to work at the initial 
consultation in January  2018. I recognise  that he was still to undergo  an operation  on his 
wrist. It was likely that he would need  time to recover from that operation.  But that doesnt  
mean he couldnt have returned  to work in the meantime. Both Dr S and Dr B seemed 
satisfied in November  2017 that there  was no reason he shouldnt  return and, as his treating 
consultants, I consider  that they were best placed  to advise on his capabilities. Even if hed 
been unable  to perform his full range of duties, I would have expected him to have attempted 
some sort of return at this stage. Instead, it seemed  that Mr P chose to remain off work until 
hed had the plate removed from his wrist, which wasnt for another two and a half months.
I accept that, once the further operation had taken place, there was another period during 
which Mr P would have  been  unable to work.  But that doesnt alter the fact that hed failed to 
return to work at a time at which it appears he was capable of doing so. And since I dont  
think hes shown he was incapacitated throughout the deferred period, I think it was 
reasonable for Unum to decline the claim.
Mr P has submitted a letter from the physiotherapist who carried out his workplace 
assessment in July 2018. However, I dont  consider  this to be relevant to the issue of 
whether Mr P was incapacitated in November  2017. 
Ref: DRN26002463Mr P has submitted a further letter from Dr B in which she outlines  his treatment and 
expresses support for his efforts  at rehabilitation. I have considered this letter but it doesnt 
change my view because  Dr B doesnt say anything to contradict her opinion of 
November 2017  that he was able to return to work the following week.
Mr P didnt accept my initial provisional decision.  He explained that, based  on Ms Gs advice 
that he was unfit,  his employer wouldnt allow him back to work during  his period of absence. 
He said hed offered  to return  to perform other duties for which he might  be suited but had 
been told there was no such work available.
Ms G wrote to us in support of Mr P. She outlined her experience and confirmed that until 
Mr P was able to use both hands safely she had judged him unfit to carry out manual  work. 
She said this judgement  was taking into account the particular environment in which  he 
operated and the associated risks. She confirmed her understanding that there  were  no 
alternative duties in which Mr P could  be deployed during the period of his absence.
I then issued a second provisional  decision, this time explaining why I was minded to uphold  
the complaint.  My findings  were  as follows:
Ms G has explained that she is a very experienced occupational health adviser. She has 
worked with Mr Ps employer for ten years and so is very familiar  with the workplace and the 
demands of the various roles. She confirmed that she had regular and frequent contact with 
Mr P.
I asked Ms G to clarify why she considered Mr P unfit to work in January 2018,  given  that his 
treating consultants had previously indicated there was no reason  why he shouldnt  return  to 
work. Ms G explained that Mr P was required to work on heavy equipment  which sometimes 
required significant force  and he thus needed to function well with both hands. She said the 
environment was not suitable for working  one-handed and her advice was that Mr P should 
remain off manual work for reasons of safety  until there was evidence  he had adequate 
strength and capacity  to undertake his normal role. This wasnt  achieved until July 2018.
Mr P said he would have  been willing to return to work in another role and had told his 
employer this. Ms G has confirmed that a return in an office-based role was explored, and 
this is reflected in the notes of her meetings with Mr P. However, no such position was 
available.  
Having reflected on Ms Gs comments, I am now inclined to place more weight on her 
opinion than on those  of Dr S and Dr B. I recognise that Dr S and Dr B were Mr Ps treating 
consultants but, unlike Ms G, they were  not familiar with his actual role and working 
environment. I think that knowledge is crucial in this case. And it was Ms G who was best 
placed to decide whether Mr P was ready  to return to his particular role. She advised  his 
employer that, for reasons of safety, he wasnt ready. Mr P nonetheless  was willing to return  
in another role but his employer decided that none  was available. Given this, I dont consider 
that Mr P can reasonably  have been expected to return  to work any sooner than he did.
I therefore consider  the fair outcome  is that Unum should retrospectively accept the claim 
and pay the benefit which is due under the policy, plus interest.
I invited both parties to comment  on this second  provisional decision.
Ref: DRN26002464Mr P accepted my second provisional decision.
Unum didnt accept my second provisional  decision.  It said that while  Ms G would have had 
a better  understanding of Mr Ps employed role and working environment, her view of Mr Ps 
capability was based on his self-reporting and was not supported  by any of the other 
contemporaneous evidence. It therefore  didnt  understand why I was now choosing  to place 
more weight on her opinion.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im satisfied that my 
second provisional decision should stand.
Unum has questioned why I am placing more weight on Ms Gs opinion.  As I have explained,  
Ms G had knowledge of Mr Ps actual role and working  environment  and I consider that this 
knowledge was crucial in this case. Ms G has explained why she thought it was not safe for 
Mr P to return  to work sooner than he did. Its also not true that Ms Gs opinion was not 
supported by any of the other  contemporaneous evidence as Mr Ps GP was continuing to 
certify him as unfit to work throughout this period.
Im also satisfied that Mr P was willing to return to work in another  capacity but that his 
employer said this wasnt possible.
In view of all the circumstances,  I consider that it was unreasonable  to expect Mr P to return 
to work sooner  than he did and that Unum should therefore accept the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Unum Ltd to accept Mr Ps claim and pay benefit in accordance with the policys  
remaining terms and conditions. Unum  must  add interest to any benefit  payments at the 
annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the date each benefit payment was due to the 
date of settlement. *
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If Unum considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2600246