K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 2002. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Ms G says FICL  mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Gs case.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
To be eligible for cover Ms G had to be working.  Ms G has told us she was unemployed at 
the time.  Ive nothing  from the time of the sale that shows  Ms G was working  at the time.  And 
FICL hasnt  given me any other evidence that Ms G was in employment at the time.  So what  
I have makes me think Ms G wasnt employed  at the time and wasnt  eligible for the cover.
On her complaint  form and questionnaire Ms G has said she started work four years later.  
She didnt  say anything more  about this. When we asked she told us her unemployment was 
due to family responsibilities and began two years before the sale.  She also said she started  
work two years  after the sale  not four years  after like on the questionnaire, although the 
work shes said started two years  later was part time. In any case, this was still after the 
sale. And I havent anything to suggest  that at the time of the sale itself Ms G was employed. 
She has been consistent in saying she wasnt. And what shes said about  this isnt 
contradicted by anything FICL has given us from the time of the sale or later.
Ive thought about all FICLs points, including what it has said about  Ms G having  been of 
employable age at the time of the sale. But this doesnt mean  she was employed. And it 
doesnt change  my view of Ms Gs complaint.
So from what Ive seen  Ms G wasnt eligible for the policy. This means the policy  wasnt  any 
use to her. I dont think Ms G wouldve bought  the policy if shed  realised she wasnt  eligible. 
So I think Ms G has lost out because of what FICL  did wrong.
putting things right
I understand Ms Gs card account  is closed.  FICL  should put Ms G in the financial position  
shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms G would have owed when she closed her card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Ref: DRN20881592FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms G owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms G made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  FICL  can take off what she got 
for the claim from the compensation amount.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms G would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until the refund  is paid.  The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms G would have owed each month without  PPI  Ms G 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms G paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Ms G 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Ms G what its done to work out A, B and C.
FICL can deduct from the redress shown any commission redress repaid to Ms G by the 
lender if the commission  redress relates  to this PPI sale.
 FICL has to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms G can reclaim the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Gs complaint. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2088159