K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that Calpe  Insurance  Company Limited declined to pay a claim on his 
motor insurance policy  and then cancelled that policy as if it hadn't ever existed (known  as 
voidance).
Reference to Calpe includes its agents.
background
Mr L took out a Calpe policy in September 2018.  Some months later his car was stolen and 
Mr L claimed for the loss on his policy. While Calpe was looking into that Mr L told Calpe that 
he had a previous  criminal conviction  from October 2017. That conviction wasn't spent at the 
time Mr L took out his policy. Calpe said if it had known about that conviction when Mr L 
applied for the policy it wouldn't  have  offered  to cover him. So it refused to pay the claim and 
voided his policy.  It didn't  provide any refund of premium.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 May 2020. For ease I've copied  my provisional findings 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely I wont uphold 
it. 
Mr L bought his policy from a broker. Calpe said that when  Mr L took out the policy  the 
broker asked him if he had any unspent criminal  convictions not relating to motoring. And 
that Mr L answered that no. Mr L initially said that he got his dates mixed  up and thought 
that the conviction was over a year before he took out his policy  so he didn't have to declare 
it. He said he'd made a genuine mistake. But he later said that the broker  didn't ask him 
about criminal convictions and only asked him about  motoring convictions.  So I've listened to 
the relevant calls with the broker when Mr L was taking out the policy.  And the broker  asked 
Mr L a clear question about  whether or not he had any unspent criminal offences to which  
Mr L answered no. But that wasn't  right. So I think he should have taken more care to 
answer that question  accurately.
Mr Ls said that he couldn't remember  exactly when  hed received the conviction, in which  he 
was given a 100 hour community order, and thought  it might have been more  than a year 
before he applied for the policy. In other words he thought the conviction was spent and if 
that were the case he wouldnt have to declare it. But as I understand it convictions with 
community orders become spent from 12 months following the completion of the order, not 
12 months from the date of the conviction. And Mr L told us he completed his community 
order in December 2018. So I don't think his conviction was spent when he applied  for the 
policy.
Mr Ls told us that his dad died in November 2017  only weeks  after the court  gave him his 
community order. And I can understand that grief can affect  peoples  memories. But I think 
that being arrested, tried, convicted  and then carrying out 100 hours  of community service  
would be something  most  people, even those whose lives have been blighted  by 
bereavement, would remember. And even if he couldn't remember the exact dates I would 
have expected Mr L to know  roughly whether or not his conviction was actually  spent or not. 
Or if he was unsure he could have raised it with the broker and if necessary found  out from 
Ref: DRN20517112the probation  service.  So I think he should  have answered the question  about whether or not 
hed had a criminal conviction differently. 
It follows that I don't think Mr L took reasonable care to answer the question about the 
criminal conviction Calpes agent  put to him. And that means he made  whats known in the 
insurance industry as a qualifying misrepresentation. That is he failed to take reasonable 
care, having  been asked a clear  question,  to answer  it while applying for the policy. There is 
specific legislation, the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 
(CIDRA) which  sets out what an insurer may do where a consumers made  a 
misrepresentation. It says that where, but for that misrepresentation,  an insurer wouldnt 
have entered  into the contract, otherwise known as the policy, it may refuse any claim and 
void the policy.
Calpes shown us evidence from its underwriting criteria, which is the guidance  it follows 
when deciding whether or not to offer policies, that if it had known about Mr Ls conviction it 
wouldnt ever have  offered the policy. So it's not a matter of it having charged  a higher 
premium, it simply  wouldn't have  offered to insure him at that time. So, under the remedies 
CIDRA offers - because Mr L made a misrepresentation - Calpe was entitled to void the 
policy. And that means it doesn't have to pay Mr Ls claim for the theft of his car. And thats 
the case regardless of the whether Mr L made a careless mistake  or if it was deliberate  or 
reckless. 
But whether  Mr L's mistake was careless, deliberate  or reckless is significant  when deciding 
whether or not it was fair for Calpe not to provide  any refund of premium. CIDRA says that if 
a misrepresentation  is deliberate or reckless then as well as voiding the policy Calpe  may 
keep the premium Mr L paid for it. But if the misrepresentation  was careless  - rather  than 
deliberate or reckless  - then it would  have voided the policy  but returned Mr Ls premium.
Its clear that Calpe felt that Mr L deliberately or recklessly made a misrepresentation, so it 
didnt refund his premium.  Mr Ls said that he made a genuine  mistake. But hes also said 
he wasn't asked the question. But if he wasn't asked the question then he couldn't  have 
made a genuine mistake. And in any event, as I've said above, I think Mr L should have 
known whether or not his conviction was spent. It follows that I think, on balance,  he was 
aware that it wasn't  spent when he took out his policy. But if he really wasn't sure then he 
should have found out. But he didn't  do so. And in those circumstances I think  Mr L either 
deliberately or recklessly  didn't  provide  accurate information. So I don't think Calpe had to 
refund any of Mr Ls premium.
For completeness Ill add that Mr Ls said that Calpe didn't ever send him his policy 
documents. But I've heard  a call with the broker where  Mr L was told that his policy 
documents would  be uploaded to his online portal. And Mr L has since accessed  that portal 
to change his email address. So its clear that he was aware of it. So he should have been  
able to access the policy documents there.
Also, Mr Ls said that Calpe hasn't  returned the car keys or logbook (V5). Its likely that 
Calpe has held onto those pending the outcome of our handling of this complaint. Thats 
because if we decide that Calpe should settle  Mr Ls claim then it would  be reasonable for it 
to hold onto those. But Mr L may wish to take the matter up with Calpe once weve  
concluded our handling  of it.
developments
Ref: DRN20517113Calpe didn't have any further comments to make. Mr L didn't agree with my provisional 
decision. He said that he hadnt  accessed the portal  where his policy documents were  held 
and if he had he could  have changed it. He said if he changed his email address he did so 
by phone and not through  the portal.  
Mr L said it was wrong and hurtful to say he lied about his conviction. He said hed told 
Calpes investigator  about it when it was investigating the claim. He also said that he didn't 
know whether his conviction  was spent or not. He added that he did answer no to the 
question about  the conviction  - when applying for the policy  - but that he hadn't understood it 
and hadn't  had the opportunity to correct his mistake. Mr L also said that despite requests 
Calpe hadn't  provided the call recording in which he was asked about his conviction.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Mr L said that he hadn't seen his policy documents in the portal.  That might be the case  but 
as I said in my provisional decision Calpes agents  told Mr L that his documents would  be 
available to view through the portal.  So, whether or not Mr L chose to view them  or not was 
his decision. If he didn't  look at them that wasn't because  of anything that Calpe did or didn't 
do. And if he was concerned that he hadn't received his policy documents  he could  have 
contacted Calpe to find out how he could access them. So I don't think it was Calpes fault 
that Mr L didn't  read his policy documents and see that those recorded that hed said he 
didn't have any unspent  convictions.  So I don't think Calpe denied  Mr L the opportunity  of 
changing anything on the policy. And its worth  noting that if Mr L had told Calpe about the 
conviction then,  given that he didn't meet its underwriting criteria,  I think it would have 
cancelled the policy at that point.  
Mr Ls also said that he didn't change his email address on the portal. Thats  not something 
Ive investigated.  But I don't think it changes  the fact that Mr L could have viewed his policy  
documents via the portal if he'd wanted  to. 
Mr Ls said its wrong and hurtful  to say he lied about his criminal conviction.  He said he 
didn't understand the question and that he didn't know whether or not his conviction  was 
spent. Hes pointed out that he answered  the question correctly when Calpes investigator 
asked him about  it. I agree thats the case.  So, it's not clear why Mr L would understand the 
question when the investigator  asked  him it but not when the broker,  who was acting as 
Calpes agent,  asked him a similar clear  question.  Mr Ls also told us that he didn't know  
whether his conviction was spent or not. Hes previously told us that he completed his 
community order in December 2018.  If so then my understanding is that his conviction 
wasn't spent when he took out his policy in September 2017. And as I said in my provisional 
decision I think its likely that Mr L would have  known that. But if he wasn't sure then he 
should have taken the time to find out. But he didn't do so and instead  gave Calpe 
inaccurate information. So I think it was reasonable for Calpe to conclude  that he didn't give 
the correct information either deliberately or recklessly. And, if he had given Calpe the 
correct answer it wouldn't ever have offered him the policy.  So I think  its reasonable that it 
turned down Mr Ls claim, voided  his policy and retained the premium.
For completeness Mr Ls said that Calpe hadn't provided him with copies of the call 
recordings when he took out the policy. While  I havent seen  a direct request from Mr L to 
Ref: DRN20517114Calpe for those recordings in the evidence that I've seen, I've asked our investigator  to see if 
he can arrange for those  recordings  to be sent to Mr L.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2051711