K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy TSB Bank  plcs IT problems impacted on his access  his online account. He 
is also unhappy that he had problems communicating with TSB and they sent him a letter 
that wasnt intended for him. 
background
In April 2018, TSB experienced problems with its IT system. This led to Mr G losing access  
to his online account for weeks.  
When Mr G tried to call TSB the lines disconnected  on numerous occasions.  He also 
communicated with TSB over email  and web chat. When he did manage  get through he 
didnt find them helpful. When  he made  complaints he said they didnt always get back  in 
touch and were still not helpful. He explained  to us that as he was fasting during this period it 
caused him additional stress. 
Mr G also complained that TSB sent him a letter which contained the details  of another  
consumer, which he felt breached data protection  rules.  
Having brought  the complaint to our service,  the investigator recommended  TSB pay Mr G 
£150 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to him. Mr G didnt think this 
suitably reflected the impact TSBs IT issue had one him and has asked for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB do not dispute  that Mr G has been impacted by the IT problems it has experienced. Mr 
G hasnt told us that he lost out financially because of what  happened. So what I need to 
consider is what is fair and reasonable to tell TSB to pay Mr G to compensate him for the 
trouble and upset  he experienced.  
TSBs IT issues did hinder Mr Gs ability to access his account  and meant  he had to spend a 
lot of  time  trying to contact them which added further inconvenience. I understand that Mr G 
was fasting so this increased the distress and inconvenience  the problems caused. 
There are certain rules that say what we can and cannot look into. Complaints handling  is 
not something that we are able to look into at this service so I havent been  able to consider 
what Mr G has said about how his complaints were  handled  by TSB. 
Mr G also complained about a data breach  when  he was sent a letter for another consumer. 
As the other  consumer was the person who suffered  this breach, Mr G cannot  complain  
about the data breach itself, but I do appreciate it made him think his personal information 
could also be shared with someone  else which must  have caused him some  stress.  
Having considered what happened  to Mr G, and with regard  for the general  levels  of awards 
we make,  I think an award of £150  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
my final decision 
Ref: DRN22853882My final decision is I uphold  this complaint. 
TSB Bank plc should pay Mr G £150 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Katherine Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2285388