K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Stagemount Limited  (trading as Quid  Market) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
January 2020.  An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Quid Market has 
said that it agrees  with my provisional decision. Mr T doesnt  agree with my findings.
Mr T has said that he believes that Quid Market would have seen from its credit checks  that 
he had entered  an IVA in June 2013. He says he has received confirmation from his IVA 
practitioner that this information was added to his credit file at that time. But despite a 
number of extended deadlines Mr T has failed  to send us the evidence he says he has of the 
information being added to his credit file.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to make it clear that I have no doubts that Mr T entered  into an IVA in June 2013. And 
I also havent drawn any adverse conclusions from his failure to send us the documentation 
he says he has been given by his IVA practitioner.  Being entirely  honest, even if Id received 
that documentation it is highly unlikely that my final decision would have been different.
Quid Market was required to undertake  proportionate  checks before it lent to Mr T. I consider 
the checks that Quid Market did were  proportionate in the circumstances and suggested that 
the loan was affordable. What is important is that the relevant regulations didnt specify  the 
exact nature  of any checks. And so there was no specific  requirement for a lender to 
undertake a credit check of any sort if it considered other checks  were more suitable.
But of course Quid  Market did do some limited  credit checks.  And so it is entirely reasonable 
that it should react appropriately  to any information  those checks provided. But as 
I explained in my provisional decision  the results from the credit checks received by 
Quid Market showed  no evidence of the IVA that Mr T had recently  entered.  So I cannot  say 
Quid Market should  have factored information  about  the IVA into its lending  decision.
So I remain  of the opinion that it was reasonable for Quid  Market  to lend to Mr T and so his 
complaint shouldnt be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against Stagemount Limited.
Ref: DRN29572602Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29572603EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr T complains that Stagemount Limited  (trading  as Quid Market) lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.
background
Mr T was given a single  loan by Quid Market. He borrowed £225 in August 2013 and was due to 
repay the loan six days later. In the end Mr T didnt repay the loan until November 2013 and so paid 
some additional interest as a result.  
Mr Ts complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. She noted  that Mr T had entered an 
IVA in June 2013. She thought that Quid Market should have been aware of this and should therefore 
have realised that it would be irresponsible to lend to Mr T at that time.  So she recommended that the 
complaint be upheld and asked Quid  Market  to pay Mr T some compensation. Quid Market  didnt 
agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed 
to me, an ombudsman,  to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Quid Market  needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  
this means that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure that Mr T could repay  
the loan in a sustainable  manner.  These  checks  could take into account a number of different things,  
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quid Market should  fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Quid Market  did some checks before it lent to Mr T. It asked him for details of his income,  and his 
normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before agreeing the loans. Quid  Market has sent me 
the results of that credit  check and they dont  show  anything that I think should  have  caused 
additional concerns to the lender. Specifically it doesnt give the lender any suggestion that Mr T had 
recently entered an IVA.
Ref: DRN29572604At this stage it would be worth noting that, generally, the information a consumer might see, when 
they request a copy of their credit file, might be very different to that seen  by a lender.  A lender might  
only see a small portion  of the credit  file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data 
might not be up to date. So, this may explain any differences between  the information Quid Market 
received from its credit  check and the information  Mr T says it should  have seen.
I think  that the checks Quid  Market  did before agreeing this loan were  proportionate.  The amount that 
Mr T needed to repay a few days later was relatively  small compared with the disposable income hed 
declared even after taking account of the other credit commitments that he hadnt told Quid  Market 
about and were shown by the credit  check. Given this repayment amount, what  was apparent about 
Mr Ts circumstances  at the time, and his borrowing  history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for Quid Market to ask him for the amount  of information that would  be needed  to 
show the lending  was unsustainable before agreeing  the loan.
Whilst it is clear that Mr T had recently entered an IVA this wasnt something he told Quid Market  
when he applied for the loan. And recently Mr T has told us that the terms of his IVA allow  him to 
borrow up to £500. I havent  seen  anything  that makes me think Quid  Markets  other checks identified 
that Mr T was in an IVA. And since I think the checks Quid Market did were proportionate I cant  hold 
it responsible for not knowing about the IVA. So I dont currently  think Quid Market was wrong to lend 
to Mr T and so his complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.
Ref: DRN2957260