K820x#14This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  mis-sold them  the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs S bought a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) alongside a mortgage TMPP 
can be split into sections   Mortgage  Repayments  Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover 
and critical illness cover. Mr and Mrs S have  complained about the PPI so Ive looked at the 
sale of the PPI cover only.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
As Mr S was the only person covered  by the PPI section of the policy I have mainly 
considered his circumstances at the time.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr and Mrs S aware that the PPI was optional  and gain their consent 
before adding it to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs S have  told us they were  led to believe  the 
policy was compulsory and they were pressured into taking  it out. I dont know  for certain  
what was said when  the policy was sold, but Halifax has provided a copy of the paperwork 
available from the time.  Mr and Mrs S completed and signed a separate section on their 
mortgage application form to take the policy. With this in mind and from what  we know about 
how Halifax sold this type of policy at the time I think its likely  Halifax made Mr and Mrs S 
aware the PPI was optional, and they chose to take it out, although I can understand why 
they may not remember this.
I have thought about what Mr and Mrs S have said about being  pressured into taking the PPI 
but pressure can be subjective so Id need persuasive evidence  to uphold this complaint on 
this basis, which I havent seen. So overall, I havent seen enough to make me think Halifax  
put pressure on Mr and Mrs S to take the policy.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them. Mr S has told us he would have received some sick at the time he took the PPI and 
had some cover with his pension. But the PPI would  have paid out in addition  to Mr Ss sick 
pay, and covered circumstances  he didnt have cover for.
 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ss circumstances at the time he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think the policy was right for him.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  Mr S chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if something went wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN20947962Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have  said, but these points dont change my 
decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs S paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs S back  some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
If Halifax hasnt already made a payment to Mr and Mrs S it will make arrangements to pay 
them now Ive issued  my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2094796