K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about the interest  rate she is being  offered by UCB Home  Loans 
Corporation Ltd trading  as UCB  Home  Loans.  As the mortgage  term is coming  to an end Mrs 
B feels trapped and would like to be offered a lower  rate.
background
Mrs B has a self-certified interest-only mortgage with UCB  Home Loans since 2003. The 
term is for 19 years. Mrs B originally borrowed £375,000 at a variable rate of interest.  In 
November 2005,  Mrs B took out a mortgage product fixing the interest rate on this on a two 
year tracker at an initial rate of 4.99%. In 2007  when this mortgage product ended  Mrs B 
switched to another mortgage product called a Self-Cert Extra  Light Adverse 2 Year Fixed  
product. The interest rate on this for the two year fixed period was 6.74% and at the end of 
that period it would switch to the Self Cert Extra Light Adverse Variable Rate  for the 
remainder of the term. Although in 2007 the follow on rate on that product was 8.14%, when 
the fixed term of the product expired in 2009, the mortgage reverted to a variable rate which 
at that time was 5.09%.
In June 2004 Mrs B applied and got additional borrowing of £112,100. This was again  
interest only and on a variable interest  rate of 5.10%. In September 2006  Mrs B took out a 
two year fixed rate mortgage product on this borrowing called a 2 Year  Loyalty Fixed Rate  
which fixed the interest rate on that borrowing at 5.49% for two years. That mortgage  
product expired in 2008 when the interest rate reverted  to the Loyalty  Flexible Variable 
Rate for the remainder of the term.
Mrs B wrote to UCB in 2015  asking  it to reduce her interest rate in line with the general trend 
in interest rates.  Mrs B feels trapped as despite what  she says is a perfect  credit  record, the 
new regulatory regime on interest only mortgages  means that she feels she cant  move 
elsewhere.
UCB says that Mrs Bs mortgage  is on its variable  rate but that it does offer products for a 
self-certified mortgage  such  as Mrs B has but Mrs B chose not to take out any of the 
available products. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld 
as she felt that UCB had done  nothing  wrong.  Mrs B disagrees and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mrs Bs mortgage statements since 2013 and I noted that there  continues  to 
be two different interest rates  applied to the borrowing as there has been  throughout. The 
larger portion of the borrowing is based on the follow-on Self-Cert  Extra Light Adverse 
Rate. Since Mrs B went on to this rate in 2007 she has been paying  an interest rate 
generally of 5.59% throughout  this period. For the smaller portion of the borrowing, Mrs B 
has been paying mainly an interest  rate of 5.29%. Mrs B took out these products in 2006 and 
2007 and her mortgage has been  on variable rates for about 10 years. 
Ref: DRN26736352Mrs Bs emailed  complaint to us of 19 November 2018 says that she is paying an interest 
rate of 5.74% and UCB wont offer her an alternative whilst offering rates of below 2% to new 
borrowers which is unfair. I have seen  no evidence that UCB  does  in fact discriminate in this 
way between new and existing borrowers. My understanding is that UCB doesnt take on 
new business.so that situation in fact wouldnt arise. 
Although UCB is a closed book to new lending,  unlike other similar lenders with closed 
books, it continues to offer alternatives  to the follow-on rates that apply to Mrs Bs mortgage. 
It says that these rates are competitive within the current market for the same product. It 
seems that when Mrs B contacted UCB in 2015 she was quoted a mortgage product with an 
interest rate of 5.69%.  Mrs B believes UCB was offering her an adverse rate although  she 
had a good credit record. On checking the information supplied to us by UCB I noted that 
this was a five year fixed rate product available to all existing borrowers. I assume the 
reference to the adverse rate was to the name of the follow-on rate that Mrs B was already 
on and had been since 2007  and not the 2015 product offer. This offer wasnt attractive to 
Mrs B as her variable  rates at that time were 5.59% and 5.29%  but theres no evidence that 
UCB was offering her a penal rate.
Mrs B is unhappy with the rate being  charged by UCB. UCB says that the rate is competitive 
with the current  market for products of the same  type which are self certified  mortgages.  I 
have seen no evidence  that this is incorrect and that UCB is charging Mrs B unfairly. 
Although the interest rate is above the Bank  of England base rate I dont see that UCB has 
given any commitment that there would be a link to that rate. The interest rates in fact 
charged by UCB seem to have been  fairly  consistent over a long period of time. Its 
unfortunate that Mrs B feels trapped with her mortgage but after giving the complaint careful 
consideration I dont  believe that UCB  has done  anything wrong and so I cant fairly  uphold 
this complaint. UCB continues to make  rates  available to its customers  and so Mrs B can 
check to see if there  are more attractive  rates available  now and make an application at any 
time if she wants to do so.
   
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2673635