K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Paysafe Financial  Services Limited wont refund money that he says he 
was tricked into transferring to a firm pretending to be an investment business. Paysafe 
Financial Services Limited  Bank  of Scotland trades  under  its Neteller brand.  
background
Mr D has explained that he was approached by someone claiming to be representing an 
investment business.  He says that the business had a sophisticated-looking website and 
appeared to have offices in central London. 
Its not necessary  for me to go into detail, but Mr D was, over several months, deceived into 
thinking that he was dealing with a legitimate investment business. It seems  however that no 
investments were made.  But Mr D made several  transfers of funds, including £40,000 using 
Neteller. But, when  he tried to withdraw his investments, he found it was impossible to do so 
and it became very difficult  to contact the people hed been dealing  with at the investment 
business. He realised that the business was not, after all, legitimate and it was unlikely hed 
get his money  back.
When Mr D contacted Neteller for help in retrieving his money, however, it said it was unable 
to help. It had, it said, processed payments in line with Mr Ds instructions. Its terms and 
conditions said that any dispute that Mr D might  have with any merchant was between  him 
and that merchant.
Mr D referred  his complaint to this service and one of our adjudicators considered it. She 
concluded that whatever had happened between  Mr D and the investment  business wasnt 
the responsibility of Neteller. It had simply made payments in line with his instructions. And 
she couldnt comment on the investment businesss financial  arrangements,  since  we could 
only look at Mr Ds complaint about  the actions of Neteller. Mr D didnt accept  the 
adjudicators conclusions and asked that they be reviewed by an ombudsman.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the adjudicator  did, and for similar reasons. 
In response to the adjudicators view,  Mr D said that there was a duty on the part of a 
payment service provider  such as Neteller to ensure they were paying  who they were asked 
to pay and to ensure  that they were carrying out due diligence  on their customers. I dont 
however understand Mr D to be saying that Neteller paid someone other than the entity he 
had asked it to pay. Neteller made  the payments in line with Mr Ds instructions. 
Neteller acknowledges that checks are carried  on merchants before they can accept 
payments. But it doesn't monitor the provision  of services by those merchants. Its referred to 
its terms and conditions  which state  that it isnt responsible for the provision of services  by 
merchants which receive payments.  
But, whatever  obligations  Neteller may have  had to carry out checks on merchants, I agree 
with the adjudicator that this isnt something  I can comment on. Thats because I can only 
consider the payment services  that Neteller  provided to Mr D, not its relationship  with the 
recipient of the funds. I appreciate that this may be frustrating for Mr D, and Ive no reason to 
Ref: DRN29357052doubt that he has, as he says, been  the victim of a scam here. But, since  Neteller made  the 
payments in line with Mr Ds instructions, I cant properly require it to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Paysafe Financial Services Limited to do anything 
further to resolve  Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2935705