K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  because Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) hasnt  
paid a claim under their travel insurance policy.
All references to LV include  the agents  it has appointed to handle  claims. 
background
Mr and Mrs P bought a travel insurance policy, provided by LV. Mr and Mrs P declared their
pre-existing medical conditions and the policy excluded cover for these. One exclusion was
for Mrs Ps back pain.
Unfortunately, while  on holiday, Mrs P tripped  and injured  herself.  She said she was
experiencing severe leg pain and was seen in a medical clinic before being admitted to
hospital abroad. After considering what had happened,  LV said the claim wasnt covered
because of the policy exclusion for back pain.  Around a week  later,  Mrs P was repatriated to
the UK on an air ambulance paid for by Mr and Mrs P.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs P complained to LV. LV said it thought the leg pain Mrs P experienced
was caused by her pre-existing  back condition, but it paid Mr and Mrs P £150  compensation
for the delay  in responding to their complaint.
After further representations from Mr and Mrs P, LV sent them  another letter.  LV said
Mrs Ps medical report showed  she was suffering  from a pre-existing back  condition  and its
doctor thought  Mrs Ps fall was highly unlikely  to have caused the symptoms she
experienced. LV also said it wasnt necessary for Mrs P to have been  repatriated by air
ambulance because she was in a modern hospital in Europe, which would have been able to
manage her condition.
As Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy,  they brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint initially. But, after Mr and Mrs P provided  more
information, our investigator changed  her opinion and said she thought LV should  reconsider
the claim.  LV didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
Since then,  both Mr and Mrs P and LV have provided further medical evidence. LV also 
provided additional evidence it holds from the time of the incident  at my request. I made my 
provisional decision about the complaint in January 2020. In it, I said:
The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Ps policy say:
You wont be covered  for any claim that is in any way related to a pre-existing
medical condition .
If you have a pre-existing medical  condition that is not covered by us you will
also not be covered  for any other condition that it makes you more likely to get (i.e.
because it pre-disposes you to it or is indirectly linked to it)...
The policy defines  a pre-existing medical  condition as including  the following;
If in the last 12 months you have had, or been  recommended to have, any:
Ref: DRN25188042-medical investigation or tests for any conditions or symptoms  that relate to a
      diagnosed condition
-treatment or surgery for any conditions  or symptoms that relate to a diagnosed
condition
-prescribed medication for any conditions or symptoms that relate  to a diagnosed
condition
If we cant  cover any pre-existing medical conditions youve told us about this will
be shown in the endorsement  sections  on your  schedule.
Mr and Mrs P were  asked questions about their pre-existing medical  conditions  when they
bought their policy. Because of this, the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) imposes obligations on both Mr and Mrs P and LV.
Under CIDRA, a consumer has a duty to take reasonable care not to make  a
misrepresentation to an insurer.  The clarity and specificity of the insurers  questions  are
relevant in deciding whether or not a consumer has taken  reasonable care.  The
representations which a consumer makes inform  the terms upon  which   if any  the insurer
is prepared to offer cover.
Ive listened to the sales call during which both Mr and Mr P spoke to LV. And I think they
took reasonable care to answer the questions which LV asked about their health. Mrs P told
LV shed had back problems,  and that shed had back surgery  in the previous 12 months.
Mr and Mrs P were  told LV couldnt cover their pre-existing medical  conditions  and theyd 
only be covered for anything new that wasnt connected to their pre-existing medical 
conditions.
LV sent Mr and Mrs P a policy schedule confirming cover.  This schedule contains an
endorsement which says:
Any claims that are related in any way topre-existing medical conditions are not
covered. This includes claims  for medical expenses,  cancellation and cutting short a  
trip.
The policy schedule sets out the exclusions which were added  to the policy  for a number of
medical conditions,  one of which was back pain.
During the call, LV had the opportunity to ask Mrs P more  specific questions about  what her
back condition was and what  her symptoms were.  If LV wanted  to know  more  detailed
information about Mrs Ps medical history then it was up to LV to ask Mrs P about it at the 
point of sale. It would then have been  open to LV to decide whether  it wished  to place a 
broader exclusion on Mrs Ps policy in line with its underwriting criteria. For example, LVs 
internal notes mention possible exclusions for back pathology and/or degenerative back  
disease.
I dont think LV made it clear to Mr and Mrs P during the call exactly  what condition or
symptoms it was excluding when Mrs P told it about  her back problems. There is no doubt
that Mrs P had a pre-existing medical  condition involving her back. But the exclusion which
LV placed  on Mrs Ps policy  schedule refers only to back pain. So, unless Mrs Ps claim is
for or is related to back pain, then I dont think its fair or reasonable for LV to turn it down.
Ref: DRN25188043My role isnt to substitute expert medical  opinions with my own.  Instead, Ive weighed  up all
of the medical  evidence  which both parties  have  provided to decide what I think is most likely
to have happened in the circumstances.
When Mrs P was first seen at a medical clinic after her fall, she was reported as attending
with severe back and left leg pain. She was given  a provisional diagnosis of left leg sciatica
with underlying lower  back pathology.
Mr and Mrs P say back pain was mentioned on this medical report  without their knowledge,
and Mrs P presented  only with leg pain, numbness, tingling and weakness. While Ive taken
into account what Mr and Mrs P have said, contemporaneous evidence like this from a
medically qualified  professional would  ordinarily  carry  significant  persuasive weight.
Having said that, both of the medical reports which Ive seen from Mrs Ps treating hospital
seem to me to support  what Mr and Mrs P have told us. The admission report says Mrs P
was admitted with severe pain, weakness  and functional limitation in left leg and thigh
paresthesias from lumbar  area.  This suggests  to me that Mrs P was admitted with leg pain
rather than with back pain. The discharge report from the same  hospital says Mrs P had
presented with pain in the left leg after a sudden  rotation of the spine with no back  pain.
LV has pointed to the stated diagnosis on these reports as being specific lumbar spinal
issues. And I understand that the eventual treatment given to Mrs P in the UK was a spinal
injection. While this may be the case, the exclusion  on Mrs Ps policy is for back pain only -
and the reports  from the treating hospital dont suggest to me that Mrs P was admitted or
treated for back pain.
Ive also seen medical evidence from after Mrs P had been repatriated, which I think is
somewhat contradictory.  The UK hospital  discharge  report from May 2017  refers to Mrs Ps
back pain  but letters from Mrs Ps consultant in June 2017 and August 2017 refer to her
symptoms as leg pain.
Having taken into account all of the medical  evidence, and having placed most  weight  on the
reports provided by the treating hospital, I think its likely that Mrs Ps claim was for leg pain.
Ive considered the medical evidence provided by both LV and Mr and Mrs P about the 
likelihood of Mrs Ps injuries  being  caused by degenerative spine disease  rather than by her 
fall. However I dont think its necessary for me to make a finding on this point. Mrs Ps policy  
doesnt have an exclusion for degenerative spine disease  it only has an exclusion for back 
pain.
Overall, this means I dont  think it was fair or reasonable  for LV to turn down Mr and Mrs Ps
claim on the basis that it was for or related  to back pain.
So, I think LV should have  accepted this claim. But this doesnt necessarily mean that all of
the costs which Mr and Mrs P incurred are covered  under their policy.
Mr and Mrs Ps policy contains limitations on cover  for the cost of private medical treatment
but, based on comments in LVs claim notes about the distance of and waiting times in a
public hospital,  I think it would be fair and reasonable for LV to pay the claim as it relates to
the cost of Mrs Ps medical treatment abroad. LV should also pay for any additional
accommodation costs  incurred by Mr P during  that time.
Ref: DRN25188044However, I dont intend to direct LV to reimburse Mr and Mrs P for the full cost of the air
ambulance repatriation. Instead,  Ill be asking  LV to pay half of these costs and Ill explain 
why.
The emergency medical cover provided by Mr and Mrs Ps policy  isnt unlimited and,
generally, an insurer will be responsible for the cost of additional transport back  to the UK
which is medically necessary and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ps comments concerning  what  the treating doctors  said
about Mrs Ps treatment options and how she should travel  home.  Ive also considered what
Mr and Mrs P told us about the standard of medical  and nursing care in the treating hospital.
The standards seen in hospitals abroad often  may not be the same as what wed expect  to
see in a hospital in the UK. But this isnt something  an insurer  has control over and, if a
policyholder is receiving a reasonable level of medical care abroad,  it may be most
appropriate for them to remain abroad  for treatment  and/or to recover  sufficiently until they
are considered fit to fly on a commercial flight. In situations where air ambulance  repatriation
is recommended, Id expect to see evidence that this was medically  necessary and in the
best interests of the patient.
Ive seen an email on LVs file from the treating hospital to say that Mrs P voluntarily
discharged herself  as she wished to be treated in the UK, and that she was fit to travel  at
that point with a medical escort by way of an international hospital  to hospital transfer.
I can entirely understand why Mrs P wanted  to return to the UK as soon as possible,  but
based on the evidence Ive seen,  I cant fairly  say that an air ambulance  repatriation  was
medically necessary  in the circumstances. LV has said it would have repatriated  Mrs P
commercially  and likely unescorted  once she was fit to fly in this way. But, equally,  I
havent seen any medical evidence from LV about  what would have been an appropriate
manner of repatriating  a patient  in Mrs Ps condition.
If LV had dealt with this claim as it should  have, it seems likely that Mrs P would  have
remained in hospital  abroad for a further period  of treatment  and/or recovery. This means LV
would have incurred  further costs in accepting the claim. LV would also have had to pay to
repatriate Mrs P commercially   either with or without a medical escort. Its very difficult  to
now quantify how much  these extra costs might have  been.
So, based  on the evidence Ive seen,  I think the fair and reasonable outcome in this case
would be for LV to cover half of the cost of Mrs Ps air ambulance repatriation.
I have no doubt  that LVs decision to turn down their claim will have been very upsetting for
Mr and Mrs P at an already difficult time. Im pleased to see LV gave assistance  to Mr and
Mrs P with arranging Mrs Ps repatriation privately.  But, in recognition of the impact of LVs
actions on Mr and Mrs P, I think it would be fair and reasonable  for it to pay them  further
compensation of £300.
So, my provisional decision was that I intended  to uphold the complaint in part. 
Mr and Mrs P responded to my provisional  decision  to reiterate there was a poor standard of 
hygiene in the hospital where Mrs P was being treated, and they had concerns about some 
of the treatment she received. Mr and Mrs P also said they were told the hospital  abroad 
Ref: DRN25188045would operate  but, when they said they would rather get back  to the UK, they were told they 
had better  go home and had little choice other than to accept an air ambulance transfer. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs P have pointed out Mrs P didnt end up needing surgery for her injury. 
LV didnt respond to my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs P have  said in response to my provisional decision.  
Im sorry  to disappoint them but I wont  be changing my findings. 
I have no doubt  Mr and Mrs P genuinely believed  repatriation  at the point it was arranged 
was in Mrs Ps best interests. Based on what theyve told us, they had what seem to be very 
valid concerns about some of the treatment  Mrs P was being  given. As LV had told them  the 
claim wasnt covered, I can understand why they acted as they did. 
I also understand  in hindsight  the fact that Mrs P didnt have  surgery  on her return  to the 
UK reinforces Mr and Mrs Ps belief that they took the correct  course  of action. 
While this may be the case,  without medical  evidence confirming that repatriation  by air 
ambulance was medically necessary,  I dont  think there are any reasonable grounds on 
which I could fairly  ask LV to pay for the whole  cost of the air ambulance.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint in part. 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited must;
accept Mr and Mrs Ps claim for the cost of Mrs Ps medical  treatment and any 
additional accommodation costs incurred by Mr P while abroad;
reimburse Mr and Mrs P for half of the cost of the air ambulance;
pay interest on the above  amounts  if the costs have already been paid by Mr and 
Mrs P. Interest  should be at a rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement. However,  if Mr and Mrs P can evidence  that they paid a 
higher rate of interest to settle any of these bills on credit, then Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited  should  pay Mr and Mrs P that higher rate of interest1;
pay Mr and Mrs P £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  they 
experienced, in addition  to the £150 already paid. 
1 If Liverpool  Victoria  Insurance Company  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take income tax off that interest, it should  tell Mr and Mrs P how much it has taken  off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue  & Customs. 
Ref: DRN25188046Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2020.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2518804