K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mrs M bought the policy in 1998 over the phone sometime after she took out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  because:
 I think FICL most  likely made Mrs M aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, 
and that she chose to take it. The sale took place over the phone several years after 
the credit card account was opened, so Mrs M knew she didnt have  to have the PPI. 
And theres not enough evidence to convince me that FICL added the PPI to the 
account without  Mrs Ms consent. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs M doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. While she had some sick pay and 
savings the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this for longer than her sick pay and 
savings wouldve lasted. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped  her 
buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ms comments, including what shes said about not claiming on 
the policy when  she was unemployed. But these points dont change  my conclusion.  If she 
wanted to, Mrs M could speak to the insurer to see if she can make  a back-dated claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2053727