K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained about MCE Insurance Company Limited.  He isnt happy that it turned 
down a claim under his motorbike insurance policy.
background
Mr E had a third party fire and theft policy  with MCE for his bike which  was stolen after he 
was involved in an accident. He reported the theft to MCE a few days  later and it went on to 
decline the claim. This was because Mr E had left the keys in the ignition of the bike when it 
was stolen. And there is a clause in the policy which says theft isnt covered in these 
circumstances. So Mr E complained to MCE and then this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for Mr E but didnt uphold it. Although she sympathised 
with Mr Es position she didnt think that MCE had done anything  wrong.  It was clear that 
Mr E had left the keys in the ignition of his bike and that is why it was stolen. As Mr E didnt 
agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so I dont that MCE has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
MCE has turned down the claim as Mr E left the keys in the ignition of the bike.  It has an 
exclusion in the policy for theft in these circumstances. Such  exclusions are common  as 
insurers dont feel that this is a risk that they can accept which I dont  think is unreasonable. 
As this is such an important clause MCE brought it to Mr Es attention in the Key Facts 
Document.
Turning to the time of the theft I have some  sympathy for the position Mr E found himself. He 
was involved in an accident on the way to the gym. He says his bike was moved to the side 
of the road and that he was taken  home.  But he left the keys in the ignition and the steering 
lock off the bike.
Mr E says that he was lifted  home after the accident  which is understandable. And when he 
returned later that day he just thought  that the police  had attended  and taken his bike away.  
He says that he contacted the police and was told to call back.  But he hasnt provided a 
crime report (in relation  to the alleged theft) and it took him five days to report  the theft to 
MCE which is surprising. So, given the circumstances  surrounding  the theft and the fact that 
Mr E left his keys in the ignition of the bike I cant say MCE has done anything  wrong.
Finally, Mr E has also asked why his remaining premium hasnt been returned.  His premium 
would only be refundable if there wasnt a claim under the policy and I understand that MCE 
thought there might  be a claim stemming from the accident. I would expect MCE to look at 
this now and if there hasnt been  a claim from a third party  it should to look to refund Mr Es 
remaining premium.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN23416052Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2341605