K820x#14the complaint
Miss S is the director of a limited company (M).  She says TSB Bank plcs IT problems  had 
an impact on her business.
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Miss S says this meant she was 
unable to use online banking  for around two weeks and that she wasnt able to use the debit 
card for her business account  to buy a train ticket.
This meant she had to pay a higher price for the train ticket,  and the online banking  issues  
meant she wasnt able to complete an international payment to one of her suppliers. After 
calling TSB and visiting the branch,  she thought the international payment had been 
completed, but the receiving bank  refused  to release the payment to her supplier as it was 
unhappy with some of the reference information included  with the payment. 
As the payment didnt reach Miss Ss supplier, they would not release the stock she had 
bought in time for an event her business  was working at. Miss S says this meant  she lost out 
on the potential  sales she could have made at that event, as well as wasted marketing costs 
and other  arrangements  shed made  for it. She also feels she should be compensated for 
her loss of earnings  for the time she had to spend  sorting out the issue. Shes put the overall 
losses at over £60,000.
TSB considered Miss Ss complaint, and offered  to reimburse her for the cost of travelling to 
the branch, the extra she had to pay for her train ticket,  and her call costs. When the 
payment Miss S had tried to make on 4 May was returned by the receiving bank, exchange  
rate differences meant she received  a lower amount than she had originally sent, so TSB 
also offered to cover this difference, as well as the fee charged  for the return  of the funds. 
Lastly, TSB offered to pay £250 to recognise  any inconvenience  caused to M. 
Miss S didnt think what TSB had offered was enough, so she referred the complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. She thought what  TSB had offered - £515.09 in total 
- was fair, as she didnt  think  TSB had done anything wrong when it arranged the 
international payment in branch. 
TSB accepted this, Miss S didnt. She still thought  TSB should compensate  her for her 
businesses losses, and she also felt what had happened merited  a higher award for distress 
and inconvenience.  So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think what TSB has already  offered is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
I dont doubt that TSBs IT issues caused  some problems for Miss S in operating Ms 
business account. Its clear she wasnt able to make an international payment online when 
she wanted to. But I do think  that TSB did all it could to resolve that issue.  
Ref: DRN21339192When Miss S went to the branch on 4 May 2018,  TSB made  several attempts to make  the 
payment successfully. When they did complete  the payment, they did so based  on 
information Miss S had given them. Ive seen the form Miss S signed to confirm  the transfer 
details, and this seems to be the main issue of contention here.
Miss S says her supplier told her the payment was not being  released by the receiving bank 
because the reference was incorrect. Miss S called TSB on 8 May 2018 to explain this 
issue to them, and to ask if the reference  could be changed so the payment could be 
released. TSB explained that the payment had already left them, so they wouldnt be able to 
make any changes to it. The payment would need  to be returned  by the receiving  bank first.
On 10 May 2018, TSB got a message via the SWIFT  system  from the receiving bank. It said 
the receiving bank was unable  to authorise the release of the funds as the payment details in 
field 70 were beyond the usage of the given  beneficiary account   this would be the 
remitter information included when the transfer  was made. The message went  on to say that 
for more details TSB should ask the remitter  Miss S  to contact the beneficiary. Given the 
previous conversation Miss S had with TSB, it seems she had already done this.
The remitter information included with the payment stated purchase  of stock. Miss S says 
that she wasnt specifically asked for a reference  for the payment, she says TSB simply 
asked what the payment  was for and then completed this part of the form themselves. 
Miss S and her representative feel that TSB should  have  made  sure the information  included 
here was appropriate to ensure the payment was processed properly.
But I dont agree. Miss S tells us shes  made  payments to this supplier before and, as the 
person asking for the payment to be made, I think it was for her to make  sure all the 
information was correct. Miss S signed  the transfer form at TSB to confirm that the details 
were correct. If she had any concerns about what the form included  she could have raised 
them at that point. 
I also note that, from what the receiving  bank has said and from comments  made  by Miss S 
in her calls to TSB, it appears the issue here was that a payment for purchase  of stock was 
being made to a personal account rather than to a business account. In my view, there was 
no incorrect information on the transfer  form, the issue was that Miss S was trying to make a 
business related  payment to a personal  account,  and the receiving bank did not allow that. I 
dont think it was for TSB to pre-empt what rules the receiving bank may have regarding this 
type of payment. 
Miss S has noted that she was able to make the payment successfully online at a later date, 
but the details of that later payment suggest it was to a different account  with different 
address details.
Given that I dont think  the branch payment being refused was TSBs fault, I dont think  I can 
fairly say that TSB should be responsible  for the extensive losses  and additional costs  
Miss S is claiming.
With everything Ive seen, I think the offer TSB has already made is fair. I think  its right that 
Miss Ss business should be compensated for the additional cost of the train ticket, for the 
travel costs in getting to branch to resolve the issue, and for phone  calls made.  I also think  it 
is fair that TSB has offered to cover the difference in exchange rates.  
Ref: DRN21339193Miss S says she wants  fair compensation for the worry  and frustration caused  to her  and I 
can understand her strength of feeling.  But the account being complained about is a 
business account and, under our rules,  the eligible complainant is the limited  company itself. 
As a limited  company cant be distressed or upset  I cant  make any award for that here. I can 
look at the inconvenience caused to the company, but taking everything into account, I think 
the £250 TSB has already  offered is fair compensation for that.
So with all this in mind,  I think  £250 plus £265.09 is fair compensation for what has 
happened here. 
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
pay M £250 for the impact the IT issues had
and pay M £265.09 for the financial losses this caused  made up of £84 call costs, 
£48 travel expenses,  and £133.09  for exchange  rate losses
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms complaint.
TSB Bank Plc should make the payments detailed above to M, but only where  it hasnt done 
so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S  on behalf 
of M  to accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2019
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2133919