K821x#15complaint
Miss G complained that Markerstudy Insurance Company  Limited cancelled  her motorcycle
insurance policy after settling her claim under it.
background
Miss Gs motorcycle was stolen and recovered damaged.  Markerstudy decided that it was
uneconomical to repair.  They paid her its market value less her policy  excess. They  also
cancelled her policy. Miss G had only been insured  with Markerstudy for about six months by
then, but she had paid the full annual premium, and so she was unhappy that Markerstudy
wouldnt refund  her any of that premium. She was also unhappy that shed had to take out
new insurance elsewhere when she bought a new motorcycle.
Markerstudy said that Miss Gs policy allowed them to cancel without refund, because  theyd
paid out on her claim and shed had the benefit of the premium  she paid. They also said that
she hadnt asked  them to put her new motorcycle on her policy  with them. Her relative, Mr G,
complained on her behalf to Markerstudy and then to us.
The investigator recommended  that Miss Gs complaint should be upheld. He thought  that
Markerstudy should pay her compensation for her inconvenience. Markerstudy  didnt agree.
Miss G didnt  agree either. She felt that they should  compensate her for her financial loss
too. Her complaint was passed  to me to decide and I issued my provisional  decision on 11 
October 2019, upholding the complaint.
. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My provisional decision was in the 
following terms. 
Having looked  at Miss Gs policy, I accept  that Markerstudy were  entitled  to cancel Miss Gs 
policy and not refund any of the premium.  We dont think this is unfair, because a 
policyholder has agreed  to pay the whole annual premium for their insurance. So if the 
insurer has settled a claim at some point during that year, the policyholder has received the 
benefit of the insurance they paid for.
However, as the investigator explained, in this Services view, when an insurer  settles a 
claim in these circumstances, we expect them to discuss with the policyholder the possibility 
of adding a replacement vehicle onto their policy. This is instead  of cancelling  the policy.
We think that an insurer should allow that as long as the replacement  vehicle also fits their
underwriting criteria.
Instead Markerstudy cancelled Miss Gs policy. This was in August but the policy wasnt  due
to expire until the following March. Markerstudy  admit that they didnt mention to Miss G that
she could continue with her policy and put a new motorcycle onto it. They said they didnt
promote change of vehicle in the policy documents in these circumstances, but they
would consider putting a new motorcycle on a policy if the policyholder  asked them. But they
said that Miss G hadnt asked them.  They  also said that by the time she complained  to them,
it was several months after theyd  cancelled her policy,  and by then it was too late for them
to consider changing the motorcycle on the policy.
Ref: DRN29698862But I dont think its reasonable to expect  a consumer to know that theyd have to ask to
replace a vehicle  on their insurance. Thats not something wed expect a consumer to know,
particularly a younger consumer like Miss G. Wed  expect  an insurer to make this suggestion
themselves. So I dont think that Markerstudy  acted reasonably there. Markerstudy  have told
us that that if Miss G had asked them, they would have insured  her new motorcycle  but on a
third party fire and theft basis, for an additional  premium of £25 plus an administrative
charge of £25, and I think thats reasonable.
I see from Markerstudys records  that Miss G had told them  that she intended to get a new
motorcycle, so Markerstudy  were aware  of that. And she did buy a new motorcycle within a
reasonable time. Shes  shown  us that she bought her new motorcycle  and insured it with a
new insurer from about 1 October, on a third party fire and theft basis. Markerstudy  had
cancelled Miss Gs policy in about  August but it wasnt due to expire until the following
March. This meant that Miss G had to pay twice for insurance from 1 October  to the
following 1 March when  her Markerstudy  policy  would have expired had they not cancelled  it.
So I dont  think thats fair. I dont  think that Markerstudy acted reasonably  in not mentioning
to Miss G that she could  have continued with their policy for the remaining policy period, and
put her new motorcycle on that policy in place of the motorcycle  that was written off. Im
satisfied that if Markerstudy  had told Miss G about that option  then, its more likely than not
that she would have taken it, rather than pay for insurance twice.
So I think shes out of pocket because of Markerstudys actions. Shes shown us evidence
that she paid the premium  for her new insurance  policy from her own bank account and that
the annual premium was £758.22 from 1 October. From that date there would have been
about 5 months  remaining on her Markerstudy policy  if it had continued. The additional
Markerstudy premium and charge on the policy to replace the motorcycle would have been
£50. So I think that the fairest way for Markerstudy to recompense Miss G is for them to pay
her 5/12ths  of the new policy  premium, less the £50 for the additional premium and charge
shed have paid for replacing the motorcycle on the policy. That equals £316, less £50,
making a total of £266. I think Markerstudy  should pay her that amount  plus interest.
I can also see that it must have been  frustrating for Miss G when Markerstudy cancelled her
policy and she had to take out a new one, then bring a complaint to Markerstudy, and then to
us. So I also award  her £75 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  that caused
her. And as I think that Markerstudy shouldnt have cancelled Miss Gs policy,  but should
have allowed it to continue for her new motorcycle, I think that they should also remove that
policy cancellation record from internal and external insurance databases.
Miss G accepted my provisional decision and Markerstudy did not reply.  So I see no reason 
to depart from that decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons,  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision its my final decision that I 
uphold this complaint.  I require  Markerstudy  Insurance Company Limited to:
pay Miss G £266, plus interest at 8% per annum from 1 March  2019 to the date they
            pay her, and
pay Miss G £75 in compensation for her distress and inconvenience,  and
remove all record of Miss Gs policy cancellation  from internal and external insurance
            databases.
Ref: DRN29698863Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2019. 
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Markerstudy must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Miss G accepts  my final decision.  If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
If Markerstudy consider  that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from interest, they should tell Miss G how much  they have  taken off, and give her 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate
Ref: DRN2969886