K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about losses  he has suffered on his trading account  (account)  with a 
company that I will call A. Mr D says that in his view Logic Investments Ltd (Logic), as his 
trading advisor,  are responsible for these losses  in full or in part  and for a number of 
different reasons.
background
Between 2014 and 2018 Mr D deposited  approximately $275,000 to his account with A. 
Following several hundred trades, mainly  in contracts for difference  (CFDs) and mainly on 
the S&P 500 Index, Mr D suffered  trading  losses of approximately $150,000 and incurred 
commission charges of approximately $100,000.
Mr D complained to Logic, his trading advisor,  about his trading losses in March  2018. Logic 
responded in April 2018 to say that it saw no grounds for upholding  Mr Ds complaint. In 
summary it said:
performance of an account  is not, in itself, grounds for complaint
Mr D was fully aware  of the risks involved in the trading strategy adopted
Mr D himself played an active  role in the management and monitoring of the account
on opening the account  Mr D asked to be treated as an elective professional  client, 
declared that he had a high attitude to risk and that he viewed himself as a 
sophisticated investor
A seeking the closure of a number of Mr Ds open positions in March  2018, to reduce  
his exposure to uncrystallised losses, is a risk involved in the trading strategy that 
was adopted
it had identified two unauthorised trades on the account in 2014  which  were 
corrected almost  immediately, with no loss to Mr D
it had been  unable to identify any other authorised trades  and nor has Mr D 
specifically highlighted  any
Mr D was fully aware  of the costs involved with intraday trading and trading more 
generally
Mr D himself advocated  intraday  trading to avoid  being caught  out by large overnight  
moves
Mr D, prior to trading  CFDs, declared  that he was sophisticated investor  in the same  
and that he had traded them 10 to 20 times per month
Mr D declared  he understood  the specific risks associated with trading CFDs and that 
losses on such trades can be multiplied  due to leverage
Unhappy with Logics  response to his complaint  Mr D referred it to our service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. 
Ref: DRN27432652Our investigator concluded that Logic had done nothing wrong and therefore it didnt need to 
pay Mr D anything by way of compensation.
Mr D disagreed and made a number of further submissions. In summary he said:
Logic had traded off its own back
he was often only advised of a trade after it had been placed
stop losses werent placed on a number of trades, despite him requesting  the same
he was often contacted by his appointed  advisor at Logic from personal or private  
device rather than a business device
The investigator considered Mr Ds further submissions, and Logics response to them, but 
wasnt persuaded to change  his mind. Therefore the complaint has been  passed to me for 
review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes listening to two call 
recordings and the contents of a number of emails exchanged between  the parties.
And having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to 
what has already been  said.
Its clear Mr D has very strong feelings  about this matter.  He has provided  detailed 
submissions in support  of his complaint which I can confirm  Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr D will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point  raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to 
have happened  given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
First Ive seen no evidence that would lead me to conclude that Mr D was pressured into 
opening the account that he did. Indeed, its my understanding  that Mr D elected to open  the 
account that he did because he wanted to follow his advisor (from a previous business)  to 
Logic.
Im satisfied that at all times Mr Ds cash and investments were  held in an account  in his 
name with A, and not by Logic. But what Logic was able to do, until Mr D revoked his 
authority in April 2018, was to trade  through  this account as Mr Ds attorney.
Ref: DRN27432653Mr D suggests that more than two trades  through his account with A were made without  his 
authority. But because Mr D hasnt said precisely what trades these are I cant  reasonably  
direct Logic to do anything in respect  of them. For the sake of completeness  I would also 
add that Im satisfied that the two trades  that Logic itself says it identified  were unauthorised 
were corrected with no loss to Mr D.
Having considered the paperwork  completed  by Mr D in July 2014  in respect of the account 
subject to this complaint  (and July 2016 and August 2017 in respect  of two other accounts) 
Im satisfied that it was appropriate for Logic  to open  an advisory account (trading shares  
and CFDs) and appropriate for it to adopt the trading  strategy  that it did. Ive come to this 
conclusion based  on Mr D declaring in 2014,  amongst other  things, that he had an annual 
income in excess of £150,000, £100,000  on cash deposit, £300,000 invested in equities  and 
that he considered  himself to be a sophisticated and frequent  equity  and CFD trader.
Mr D suggests that many  of Logics  recommendations were  poor and this led to large losses 
on his account.  And because of this Logic should make good  these losses.
For me to conclude that Logic should compensate Mr D for some  or all of his trading losses, 
I would need to be satisfied that Logics recommendations were negligent. In other words, I 
would need to be satisfied that no reasonable advisor would have made  the same 
recommendations in the same circumstances.
Whilst it can be said in hindsight that alternate recommendations might  have done better, 
Ive not seen, and Mr D hasnt in my view provided, sufficient evidence that Logics 
recommendations were  negligent such that I could  reasonably conclude that he should  be 
compensated for his losses.
In my view Logic made recommendations in line with what  I might have expected given  what  
Mr D declared  in 2014 were his personal  circumstances, objectives  and attitude  to risk. 
Im also satisfied, with the exception  of the two trades referred to by me above, that each 
and every trade was placed by Logic with Mr Ds approval, or by Mr D himself.  Its also my 
understanding that there were a number of occasions where Mr D elected  not to act on 
Logics advice but to trade  based on his own view of the markets. I would also add that 
based on two the calls Ive listened  to Mr D appears to me to be very knowledgeable and 
fully engaged with the trading  strategy  recommended by Logic.
I can see that Mr D complained to Logic  after it came to light that A required a number of 
positions to be closed to crystalize  a number of running losses, some of which  had been 
running for two years or more. But in my view a business requiring the closure of a number 
of positions is an inherent risk in trading CFDs, particularly when a client  is exposed  to one 
particular contract and exposed to a market that is moving against  them.  So I cant see that 
Logic should be held responsible for this. Furthermore, Mr D was free to fund his account if 
he wanted to in order to keep one or more  of his positions open, but he elected  not to. 
For the sake of completeness I would also add that had Mr D been unhappy with the service 
provided by Logic, Im somewhat surprised he left it four years and several hundred  trades 
later to complain.  I also find it had to reconcile Mr Ds submission  that 95% of the trades 
were placed  without his knowledge with his submissions that on numerous occasions Logic 
failed to place  stops on trades as he had requested and that many of Logics 
recommendations were  poor.
Ref: DRN27432654Ive also seen no persuasive evidence that Mr D, with the exception  of one incident identified  
by the investigator, was ever contacted by his appointed advisor,  whilst  that advisor was 
employed by Logic, from a personal or private device. But even if Mr D had been contacted 
in this way on more than the one occasion identified  by the investigator, I cant see that this 
in itself has caused Mr D a loss. 
I appreciate that Mr D has suffered a substantial trading  loss. But Im not persuaded, in the 
particular circumstances  of this case,  that it would be either fair or reasonable for me to 
direct Logic to refund  any of this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed by my conclusions. My final decision, however, 
represents the last stage  of this services dispute  resolution procedure. Mr D doesnt have to 
accept my decision, and if he doesnt  do so, he will be free to pursue legal action against 
Logic Investments Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2743265