K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr E says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr E didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember that now, 20 years 
after the sale. I say this because Ive been  given a copy of the application form Mr E 
completed at the time. I can see that PPI was selected with a printed X. Halifax  said 
Mr E agreed to the policy  after a discussion with the representative.  After  all the 
years that have passed since 1998 I havent seen sufficient evidence to think the 
business failed  to make it clear  to Mr E that he had a choice about taking the policy. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr E so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he was eligible  for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And he seems  to have had a need for the 
cover. I say this because  whilst his initial  sick pay was good, it dropped  significantly  
after six months, such that Mr E may have had to use his modest savings. But this 
policy couldve covered  10% of Mr Es monthly balance  for up to 12 months in the 
event he was too ill to work, or if he lost his job. And it wouldve paid in addition to, 
and potentially for longer than, any other pay Mr E may have received. So in view of 
the above I think he couldve found  this cover useful.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy  was suitable,  I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr E, if it hasnt already, because: 
When the policy was sold, Halifax expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr E about that. 
Because Halifax didnt tell Mr E, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Halifax has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN29335522If it hasnt  already, Halifax has to pay back to Mr E any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Halifax should  also pay back  to Mr E any extra  
interest Mr E paid because of that.
Halifax should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr E the difference between 
what Mr E owes and what he wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Halifax should also pay Mr E 8%* simple  interest  if Mr 
E paid off his credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr E can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr E any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2933552