K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a total 
mortgage protection plan (TMPP).
background
Mr and Mrs I had a joint mortgage set up. In 2009, during a mortgage  review at a Halifax  
branch, they arranged  a TMPP and took out payment protection insurance  (PPI) that 
covered Mr I if he became  unemployed. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint. Mr and Mrs I disagreed.  They 
have a number  of concerns about the sale. Mainly they say they didnt need the cover  as 
Mr I had excellent work benefits.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Is complaint. Ill explain why.
Usually Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened  at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. Halifax hasnt been able to provide anything  
signed by Mr and Mrs I to show how they agreed to take out the PPI. But I dont  think thats 
surprising. I wouldnt expect Halifax to have kept all the paperwork for this long. 
Ive taken carefully into account  what Mr and Mrs I remember. It wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect them to recall  exactly  what was discussed at the time. I must decide  what I think  is 
most likely  making some assumptions where  necessary. 
In order to uphold  this complaint Id have to find it likely that Mr and Mrs I werent given a fair 
choice about PPI or that it was added  to their mortgage account without their consent. 
This service has seen copies of the TMPP paperwork Halifax used. And we already  know  
from looking at other  cases what the process  was when Halifax sold TMPP. Ive no reason to 
think that Halifax wouldnt have followed  its normal  sales process here. 
I think that Halifax made Mr and Mrs I aware  that the PPI was optional  and they chose  to 
take it out to cover Mr I. Theyd already had their mortgage for some  time without PPI  so 
I think Mr and Mrs I wouldve known it was up to them  to choose if they wanted to have it 
with their mortgage. 
Even if he hadnt initially wanted  PPI, it looks like Mr I changed his mind. He mustve decided  
he wanted it after all because Halifax then wrote  to him confirming that hed been accepted 
for unemployment cover. Halifax set out the personal information hed given as well as 
details of the cover hed chosen. Halifax made Mr I aware that the cover  could be cancelled  
if he decided after all he didnt want it. 
Ref: DRN27083352Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Is home  wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
On balance, it seems likely  to me that Mr and Mrs I were persuaded of the benefits of 
protecting Mr Is mortgage monthly repayments  if he lost his job unexpectedly and was out of 
work.  
So, taking into account all this information, I cant safely say that Mr and Mrs I were  sold PPI 
without their proper consent.  
It doesnt look like Halifaxs advice to take out PPI was unsuitable based on what  Ive seen 
of Mr and Mrs Is circumstances at the time. 
Mr I was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.
Mr I had good sick pay arrangements and hes mentioned having savings. But Im looking at 
what Mr and Mrs Is situation is likely to have been  if Mr I became unemployed.
He was the main  earner.  So although Mrs I was working too, I think its likely that they 
wouldve soon faced  financial difficulty keeping up their mortgage monthly repayments if they 
could no longer depend on Mr Is regular monthly income.
The policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit and protected Mr and Mrs Is mortgage 
repayments for up to 12 months per claim if Mr I lost his job. And he couldve made repeated  
claims on the policy giving Mr and Mrs I long term cover for their mortgage.  So I think  having 
unemployment cover  for Mr I couldve been a useful benefit in what  wouldve been difficult  
circumstances for Mr and Mrs I.  
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to redundancy money. This wouldve protected any lump 
sum Mr I mightve got giving Mr and Mrs I more  financial security.  So I can understand why 
someone with redundancy benefits would  still want  to have PPI as well. Overall,  I think that 
PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs I.
I think its likely that Mr and Mrs I wouldve probably discussed PPI at some length with 
Halifax in 2009.  I dont know what Halifax said about  the way benefit  could be split. Even  
though Mr and Mrs I just selected  unemployment cover  for Mr I, there were other elements 
of cover they couldve bought as part of the TMPP package  which  neither of them took out. 
So it looks  like Mr and Mrs I mustve  talked about how they wanted to tailor the cover on 
offer to fit their particular  needs  and circumstances.  
And, as far as I can see, their decision to buy unemployment cover just for Mr I reflected 
Mr and Mrs Is needs and priorities at the time. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mr Is case. So, I dont  think  having  more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected their decision to take out the policy.
Mr and Mrs I chose to take out the policy and so appear to have wanted this type of cover.  
Taking into account the cost and the monthly benefit that would be paid if a successful  claim 
was made  I think the policy was worthwhile for Mr and Mrs I. Ive seen nothing to suggest  it 
was unaffordable.  
Ref: DRN27083353Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But I think 
Mr and Mrs I still wouldve  decided to buy the policy for Mr I even  if theyd been  better  
informed as the policy gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont think  
better information wouldve put them off buying the cover they took out for Mr I. 
This means  that, overall, I dont  find that Mr and Mrs I lost out as a result  of anything that 
Halifax mightve done wrong. So it doesnt need  to do anything  to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2708335