K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited has unfairly declined her motor 
insurance claim for the theft of her car.
background
Mrs Ts car was stolen from outside her home sometime between the night of 
31 March 2017  and the next morning. Mrs T reported this to the police  and made a claim on 
her car insurance policy. The police  later recovered  the car. 
Admiral investigated  and declined Mrs Ts claim because it thought there had been  a 
deliberate attempt to mislead  it. Mrs T bought the car in 2015 and maintains that she only 
ever had one key to the car. But Admiral  said the manufacturer  said two keys had been  
coded to the car and it could only have  been taken with a key. Admiral therefore  thought  the 
thief must  have had access to one of the original keys, and that it was highly unlikely the 
thief didnt find the key recently. Admiral also said the police report  stated the keys were  left 
in the car. And it pointed Mrs T to the policy terms and conditions  in respect of fraud which  it 
used to turn down  her claim. It explained that to date it had incurred costs of £1,141.40  in 
relation to storage, recovery and investigation,  which it would require Mrs T to reimburse it 
for; it said the car was deemed a Category D write-off, and that should Mrs T wish to retain 
the car, a payment  of £120 for redelivery would be required. 
Mrs T brought her complaint to us. Our investigator  didnt think Admiral had shown that 
Mrs T had misled  it  she wasnt persuaded Admiral had shown Mrs T or her husband were 
ever in possession  of a second key; and she said the keys left in the car were for a different 
vehicle, not the one subject to the claim.  Our investigator therefore recommended  that the 
complaint be upheld and that Admiral reassess  the claim  in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions.
Admiral didnt agree with the investigator. It didnt think what  Mrs T has said about her only 
having one key can be true. It also referenced a different  investigators  view on a different 
case here, which it said supports its case. Our investigator explained why she thought that 
particular case is different to this one, and that, in any event,  we assess each case  on its 
own merits. Admiral  still doesnt agree, so the matter  has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed  that Mrs Ts car was stolen.  So, on the face of it, she has a claim under her 
car insurance policy. Admiral seeks to rely on one of the general conditions of the policy, 
which provides that it wont pay a claim that is fraudulent, false or exaggerated. Its for 
Admiral to show that Mrs T has made a fraudulent, false or exaggerated  claim. I dont think  
its done that here. Ill explain why.
Mrs T has always said that she had one key for her car. Given the cars history, I dont think 
this would be particularly  unusual. Admirals claim notes indicate  that whilst the garage that 
sold the car to Mrs T told the claim handler  in April 2017 that it doesnt keep records  of how 
many keys a vehicle is sold with, a later note dated  2 June 2017 suggests that in a 
subsequent visit the garage said the car was sold with one key. 
Ref: DRN23624472Admiral refused Mrs Ts claim essentially because it says there  was no damage or 
tampering to the car consistent with theft without a key, and the manufacturer said the car 
could only be taken  with a key and that there were only two keys coded to the car  so 
Admiral doesnt think  Mrs T has been  truthful about  the number of keys she had for the car. 
But the car wasnt stolen with the key that Mrs T has said she had possession of. And I dont 
accept that there is convincing evidence that another  key for the car was in left in the car to 
enable the theft.  The police report states  keys left in vehicle and key for the tipper  left in the 
[car] on the drive. But Admirals claim notes indicate that Admiral  asked the police about  the 
keys and the police said it had no information confirming the keys to the car (as opposed  to 
the tipper) were left in the car. I also note that no key for the car appears  to have been found 
when the car was recovered. Im also not satisfied the information Admiral  has obtained from 
the manufacturer and the fact there  appears to have been  no damage or tampering 
consistent with car theft sufficiently proves how the car was stolen, or that Mrs T didnt have 
just one key. Its not clear  to me how the thief or thieves stole  Mrs Ts car  but Mrs T 
doesnt have to establish that. But Admiral does have to establish its most likely that Mrs T 
has made a fraudulent, false  or exaggerated  claim.  And given that its unclear how the thief 
or thieves  stole the car, that Mrs Ts testimony  has been consistent and information  from the 
selling garage  doesnt cast doubt on this  and that its quite possible the car was stolen 
without Mrs T ever having had a second  key, Im not satisfied that it has sufficiently done  
this. 
Admiral has referenced a different  investigators view on a different case  here,  which it 
believes supports  it case. But in the case Admiral has referenced it appears  that the vehicle 
was purchased with two keys but one was misplaced  so different circumstances to what  I 
accept is the case  in Mrs Ts complaint. In any event, I must assess  this complaint on its own 
merits and decide  what I think is fair and reasonable in its own individual  circumstances.  
I dont think it would  produce a fair and reasonable outcome to this particular complaint if I 
was to allow Admiral to turn down Mrs Ts claim on the basis that shes  made a fraudulent or 
false claim. Admiral hasnt given any other reasons why the claim would be declined so it 
should pay the claim. It should also pay interest  on the claim settlement calculated at 8% 
simple per year from the date of loss (1 April 2017)  to the date of settlement. If HM Revenue 
& Customs requires Admiral to withhold income tax from the interest  it must give Mrs T a 
certificate showing how much its taken off if she asks for one.
Mrs Ts said she felt upset  and intimidated at being  accused of fraud. I can understand why 
this would cause  her distress and inconvenience. So I think  Admiral should  also pay her                                                                    
compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused by accusing her of 
making a fraudulent, false or exaggerated  claim.  
If Admiral has recorded Mrs Ts claim as fraudulent, false or exaggerated  on any internal or 
external databases  it should also remove those records and confirm  that it has done so. 
Ref: DRN23624473my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ts complaint and I direct  Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay the claim.
Pay interest on the claim settlement calculated at 8% simple per year from the date 
of loss (1 April 2017)  to the date of settlement. If HM Revenue  & Customs requires 
Admiral to withhold income tax from the interest   it must  give Mrs T a certificate 
showing how much  its taken off if she asks for one.
Pay Mrs T £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Remove any records that it may have made on any internal or external databases  
that Mrs Ts claim  was fraudulent, false or exaggerated. It should confirm  that it has 
done so.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2362447