K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that they were  mis-sold  a mortgage by an appointed representative 
of Legal & General Partnership Services Limited  (L&G).
Mr and Mrs F are represented in bringing  this complaint by a claims management company 
(the CMC).
background 
Mr and Mrs F were  advised by a mortgage  broker from Carrington Carr  an appointed 
representative of L&G  when they remortgaged  in 2005. They  refinanced their existing 
mortgage with a new lender and borrowed some additional funds, most of which were used 
to pay off other debts.
In 2018, the CMC complained to L&G about the advice  given  to Mr and Mrs F. It said theyd 
had no need to remortgage  or consolidate any of their existing debts as they were  in a 
relatively comfortable financial position,  and wouldve been  able to maintain the necessary 
monthly payments.  The CMC didnt think the savings that the remortgage had provided Mr 
and Mrs F had justified the cost of setting it up  which it said came  to almost £11,000 and 
had included  an early  repayment charge (ERC) on their previous mortgage.  The CMC also 
said that Mr and Mrs F had been  mis-sold a legal administration  service  alongside  the 
mortgage.
L&G didnt agree that the brokers recommendation had been  unsuitable.  It said Mr and 
Mrs F had been relying on credit  to supplement their income, with debts  of £2,100  across  
two credit cards and an unsecured loan of around  £23,000 that itself had been  taken  out to 
consolidate previous debts. So, it said, Mr and Mrs F had wanted to reduce their outgoings  
to a more affordable level. In the event,  it said only the loan had been consolidated  and the 
implications of doing so were explained to them at the time. With regard to the ERC, L&G 
said the broker had recommended  that Mr and Mrs F wait a few months until this would 
cease to apply   but theyd explicitly stated that they didnt want  to wait. And on the legal 
costs, it thought the fees had been  clearly set out to Mr and Mrs F and that theyd agreed to 
pay them.
The CMC referred Mr and Mrs Fs complaint to us and it was reviewed by one of our 
adjudicators. He said, in summary, that the advice had been  unsuitable  because:
Looking at the figures documented by the broker at the time, Mr and Mrs F had a 
comfortable level of surplus income  after their committed expenditure had been taken 
into account. With no apparent difficulty in maintaining the monthly payments due on 
the loan, he couldnt  see a particular  need  to consolidate it.
While  the remortgage  saved them £177 a month, this had been significantly 
outweighed by the additional interest theyd  pay on the loan amount over the 
mortgage term (which was in the region of £11,000) and the costs of setting it all up 
(which he said had been around £6,200).
Ref: DRN20212482So our adjudicator recommended that L&G put Mr and Mrs F in the position they wouldve 
been in had the remortgage not gone  ahead  reimbursing them for the inappropriate 
consolidation and refunding all the fees theyd incurred.
L&G didnt accept  our adjudicators view.  It maintained that the remortgage provided Mr and 
Mrs F with a valuable reduction in their outgoings   and that they wouldnt have insisted on 
going ahead if theyd not had a genuine  need  to do so. It said the apparent surplus  income 
ought to be viewed with caution  in light of Mr and Mrs Fs use of credit in the months leading 
up to the remortgage. And it reiterated that the broker had advised Mr and Mrs F to delay 
completion to avoid paying an ERC  but that theyd  instructed him to proceed,  so there  
wasnt much  else he could reasonably have done.
With no resolution agreed, Mr and Mrs Fs complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
The only purpose  of the remortgage  was, apparently, to consolidate the previously 
unsecured loan that Mr and Mrs F had. They didnt intend to raise any capital under the new 
mortgage, although I understand from the completion statement that they were  sent a 
balance of around £1,450  on completion.  And contrary to the CMCs original  complaint 
points, Mr and Mrs Fs credit card debts werent consolidated within the new mortgage 
either.
In order for the remortgage to be suitable therefore,  Id need to find that it was suitable for Mr 
and Mrs F to consolidate the loan. Like our adjudicator, Ive not found Mr and Mrs F to have 
had a real need  to do so. The fact find completed  at the time shows that under their existing 
arrangements and after taking into account  their regular expenses, they had a disposable  
income of £686  each  month. This figure  included  allowances for holidays and payments of 
£150 towards their credit  cards (when  minimum payments were only around £46).  So as the 
CMC has argued,  Mr and Mrs F seemed  to have been in a fairly comfortable  situation  with 
enough money to manage their commitments  without  any problems. 
There doesnt appear to be any suggestion that Mr and Mrs F have a particular need to bring  
down their outgoings  theres no evidence of any difficulties, and again the paperwork 
completed at the time records that theyd  never  missed any payments or been  in any arrears 
on any of their borrowing. 
Ive taken into account what L&G says here, but the evidence doesnt support its speculation 
that Mr and Mrs Fs financial  position might not have been as positive  as presented  on the 
paperwork. I think its reasonable to rely on the contemporaneous records upon which its 
broker based his recommendation. It also queries why Mr and Mrs F were only paying £150 
towards their credit cards  if they could  on paper   afford to pay more.  I dont  find it 
particularly unusual not to clear a credit card balance in full each month  even when 
affordability permits. Even more  so in cases like Mr and Mrs Fs, when interest is charged at 
promotional rates (their  application paperwork indicates that the cards were  on a 0% deal).
Ref: DRN20212483On top of this, the saving  not entirely accurate as its actually a reduction in monthly 
outgoings, with more being paid in the long term  was fairly  marginal. Under  their existing  
arrangements, Mr and Mrs F were making  monthly  payments  of £459 and £362 to their 
mortgage and loan respectively. So a total of £821.  That was brought down under the 
remortgage to just over £658  a difference  of £163.  The new mortgage  had a stepped rate, 
that would  increase each year for four years. By year four, their payments were scheduled to 
be just under £792. So just £29 a month less than what theyd been paying under their 
previous arrangement.
Set against  the small reduction  in Mr and Mrs Fs outgoings were significant costs  and 
drawbacks. As Ive touched  on above, Mr and Mrs F would end up paying  significantly more 
in interest on the loan amount over the duration  of the mortgage term (19 years)  than if 
theyd left things  as they were (the loan had a little under seven years to run). With the loan 
and the fees for the new arrangement all adding to the mortgage debt, Mr and Mrs F also 
significantly increased the level of debt secured against their home: now around £103,500 
when it had been around £70,000. And this represented such a high proportion of the value 
of the property that the lender applied an additional  charge.  
Along with that higher  lending charge  (£1,575) were a number of other significant costs  
further reducing the benefit of the saving in monthly outgoings. These included an ERC  on 
redemption of their previous mortgage,  fees to both the broker  and lender for setting up the 
new mortgage, and a number of other legal and administrative costs.
With no apparent need for the consolidation   and only a marginal benefit  being derived from 
it  I dont think the brokers recommendation was suitable. L&G says that the implications of 
consolidation were  discussed with Mr and Mrs F and that they were  wanted to proceed. But I 
dont think thats  sufficient to make  up for the shortcomings in the advice.  It was for the 
broker to ensure its recommendation was suitable.  I dont think it was. Mr and Mrs F have 
lost out as a result of that bad advice  paying  significant costs and additional interest to take 
out a new mortgage that they didnt need.  So I think its right that L&G reimburses Mr and 
Mrs F for the additional  amounts  theyve had to pay (and will have to pay) in this respect.  
The CMC has also raised concerns that the broker received commission  for recommending  
the firm of solicitors used for the conveyancing work. But while  the complaints been with us, 
L&G has made an offer to resolve that aspect of the complaint that the CMC has accepted. 
Given this, and as Im requiring L&G to refund the legal  costs at issue,  I make no finding on 
the points raised  about the legal  services here and understand that L&G will settle the 
commission issue directly with the CMC.
Ref: DRN20212484my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and require 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited to:
Make  redress  for the consolidated loan by:
Calculating the amount  Mr and Mrs F have paid to date in capital  and interest 
payments for the consolidated loan;
Calculating how much remains on the mortgage  balance for the consolidated 
loan;
Calculating how much Mr and Mrs F wouldve  paid to clear the loan if it hadnt  
been consolidated; and then
Adding together the first and second  figures, taking away the third, and paying 
this amount as a lump sum to Mr and Mrs F. Any additional  amounts paid since  
the loan was due to redeem ought  to be paid to Mr and Mrs F with 8% simple  
interest added  from the date such amounts  were  paid until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs F all of the costs involved  in setting up the new mortgage and 
any costs incurred  in settling their previous arrangements. Interest should be added 
at the mortgage  rate to any and all costs  that were added  to the mortgage, running 
from the date they were  paid to the date of settlement. For any costs  not added to the 
balance, 8% simple interest should be added from the date they were  paid to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2021248