K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with 
Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) has been  of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Mr J took receipt of a new car in March  2018.  He funded the deal through  a hire agreement  
with Lex. 
In late March 2018 Mr J says he contacted Lex about the heated front seats in his car. He 
said they were malfunctioning and the car was booked into the dealership to have the 
problem resolved. But the dealership had problems  fixing the car. By the end of July Mr J 
explained that hed only driven  it for six weeks and the heated front seats were still not 
working. He noted  that there  was also a fault with the electric wing mirrors  and that a rear 
heated seat was now not working  either.
Lex placed a credit of £200 on his account  because of the delay and in September an 
engineer from the manufacturer visited the dealership and rectified  the faults.
Mr J wasnt happy with Lexs  response  and he complained to this service.  Our adjudicator  
thought Lex should arrange  for the seats  to be properly repaired. He noted that Mr J had 
been kept mobile whist his car was in the garage  but that the cars provided were not the 
same as the one he was hiring and that hed been  left without his car for a very long time. He 
thought Lex should therefore  refund some of the finance payments  for the period  he was 
significantly affected by the problems. He suggested  20% of instalments should be refunded 
for a period  of four and a half months and he calculated this as £720. He also thought  it was 
clear that Mr J had been inconvenienced by these matters and, in the circumstances; he 
thought Lex should pay him £150  compensation.
Mr J accepted the adjudicators view but Lex didnt. They  disputed  the adjudicators  
suggestion a 20% refund  should be provided as they said hed been  kept mobile; had taken 
the car away  from the dealership at times  and deprived them of an ability  to fix it and that the 
fault complained  of was only a minor one and didnt restrict the use of the vehicle. They 
therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Lex so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN23303952Mr J acquired  his car under a hire agreement.  The hire agreement is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Lex, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Mr J appears  to have complained about the heated  seat fault very soon after he received the 
vehicle. The relevant legislation says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
So I think the fault was for Lex to resolve  and legislation therefore allows them  an 
opportunity to repair the problem.
Im persuaded thats not been completed satisfactorily yet so I would agree with the 
adjudicator that Lex should ensure the repair is completed. I note that Mr J also complained  
of a failed rear heated  seat and problems  with his electric door mirrors in July, when he 
picked his car up only four months  after he received it. I think those issues  may now have 
been resolved  but for the avoidance of any doubt, if they havent been resolved I think Lex 
should also attend to them as Im persuaded by the fact Mr J had barely driven  the car at 
that time,  that its most  likely they were there from the beginning.
Mr J has experienced significant  loss of use of the car he was supposed to be hiring. Im 
persuaded, for instance, by the email evidence thats been presented, that Mr J was without  
his car for all but six weeks in March, April, May, June and July 2018. 
His enjoyment will also have been  impaired because he wasnt  able to drive  the car he was 
hoping to drive. And whilst I understand that he was kept mobile during these periods the 
cars that were provided were not the same  model  as the one he had. 
In those circumstances I think a refund of the instalments hes paid during the period  hes 
been most affected by the problem  is reasonable. The adjudicator suggested that period 
should be four and a half months and I think thats fair. I also think  its fair to reimburse  20% 
as I think, in the circumstances, thats about right and I dont agree with Lex that the fault 
didnt restrict vehicle  use. Whilst the fault itself may have seemed  trivial; its clear the inability 
to repair  it did restrict use. 
However; I dont agree  with the adjudicators calculation of the refund. Mr J was paying 
£599.92 per month and over four and a half months a 20% rebate would be £539.93  and not 
£720. Ive asked the adjudicator about that and hes accepted he made an error in the 
calculation. So Im asking  Lex to refund £539.93  and not £720.
Its clear Mr J has been both distressed and inconvenienced by these issues.  Ive read that 
he frequently had to take the car back to the dealership and it must have been frustrating not 
to have the fault remedied quicker.  Hes also had to pursue  a complaint were I think  its 
reasonable to say the issues could have been resolved more swiftly. In those circumstances 
Ref: DRN23303953I think Lex should provide some compensation and, in the circumstances, I would  agree  that 
£150 is reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Lex Autolease Ltd to:
if theyve not already  done so - repair the heated seats in the front and rear of the car 
and fix the wing mirrors;
pay Mr J £539.93 for impaired use and loss of enjoyment;
pay Mr J £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.  
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2330395