K821x#15complaint
Miss W, complaining on behalf of company  M, complains that Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc (RSA)  mishandled her companys  insurance claim for legal expenses.
For ease, references  to Miss W include acts or omissions of company M.
background
Miss W holds a Commercial Combined  policy with RSA  which  includes  cover for legal 
expenses for her company  that she took out on 29 January 2018. Miss W entered into a 
franchise agreement on 1 November  2017  and paid a non-refundable  franchise fee. But 
following a number of revelations about the franchisor and the nature  of the business, she 
subsequently wanted to rescind the agreement as she contends  that the business was 
misrepresented to her.
Miss W wished to bring a claim for misrepresentation against the franchisor, so she made  a 
claim on her policy with RSA for legal  expenses in May 2018. RSA initially said that the claim 
would not be covered  as the dispute  arose  prior to the policys inception.  But Miss W argued  
that the dispute in fact arose after shed taken out the policy, as shed only become aware of 
the misrepresentation after January 2018.  
Following this, RSA asked Miss W to provide a legal assessment regarding the prospects of 
success of her dispute, which she was told shed need to pay for as the cost of the 
assessment would not be covered under the policy. Miss W paid £846 for the prospects 
assessment, which she had to borrow as she didnt  have  the money herself. Her solicitor 
reported that the dispute enjoyed positive prospects. But despite this, RSA informed Miss W 
on 22 June 2018  that they were declining her claim as a result  of a policy exclusion. The 
relevant term excluded cover for any disputes that arose in respect  of a contract that was 
entered into before the policy was taken out. As Miss W had entered  into her franchise 
agreement in November  2017, and the policy was taken out in January  2018, RSA said her 
claim was not covered.
Miss W complained as RSA already knew this information, yet they still asked her to provide 
and pay for a legal  assessment. She feels she was led to believe that the insurer had 
accepted her claim in principle, and that they ought to have known that the claim was 
excluded without requiring  her to go to the trouble of obtaining a legal assessment. Miss W 
was also unhappy  that her claims handler was appointed  to investigate her complaint, 
despite being told that her case would be independently reviewed.
RSA acknowledged  that they could have declined Miss Ws claim without asking her to 
obtain the legal assessment, so they agreed  to reimburse the legal fees shed incurred in 
respect of this. However, Miss W felt she was due further compensation, as the time it took 
RSA to decline the claim resulted in her paying  further costs  under the franchise  agreement,  
and prevented her from breaching her contract  with the franchisor,  as she wanted  to 
understand her insurance position first.
Our investigator upheld  Miss Ws complaint and awarded £150  compensation in addition  to 
the costs that RSA had already agreed  to pay, as he thought that RSAs handling of the 
matter had been poor at times.  But he did not think it would  be fair to ask the insurer  to cover 
Miss Ws other costs incurred under the franchise  agreement. RSA disagreed and argued 
Ref: DRN24567922that covering Miss Ws costs for the legal assessment was already a form of compensation. 
No agreement could  be met, so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it.
It is accepted by both parties that Miss Ws dispute is not covered under the policy.  And 
having considered the policy terms and conditions, I agree that the claim has been  fairly 
declined in line with the policy terms and conditions, so I will not be considering  the matter 
any further within this decision. But what does remain in dispute  is RSAs handling of the 
claim, and whether any further compensation should  be paid. 
RSA do not believe  it is fair that they are being asked to pay Miss W a further £150 
compensation. They acknowledge that they couldve declined the claim sooner, but feel that 
their offer to reimburse her costs  for the legal assessment puts her back in the position she 
wouldve been but for their poor handling of the claim. They also submit  that receiving a free 
legal assessment should also be considered as a form of compensation in itself.  However,  I 
dont agree, as I do not feel the benefit of a free legal assessment adequately recognises  the 
distress and inconvenience caused, so I consider that further compensation ought to be paid 
in light of this. Ill explain  why.
Miss W says she was misled into believing that her claim had been accepted, and all that 
remained was to show that her claim had sufficient prospects. She says she asked the 
claims handler if the insurer had accepted her case, to which she was told that they had. 
Given that an insurer would only usually ask for a prospects assessment once theyve  
accepted a claim in principle, I can see why she would have thought this. And this meant 
that Miss W delayed taking any alternative course of action in respect  of the franchise 
agreement, as she was led to believe that her claim for misrepresentation would potentially 
be covered.
If RSA had declined  the claim from the outset like they couldve done, Miss W also wouldnt 
have had to waste  time organising a legal  assessment that she could not afford  to pay for. 
The fact that Miss W was already struggling financially and had to borrow  money in order  to 
pay for the unnecessary report (that was never going to make any difference  to her claim) 
has clearly added to the frustration, distress and inconvenience caused by the insurers 
handling of the mater.  
Miss W also says she was told she would receive a response from the insurer  within  seven 
working days after submitting the legal assessment. However, she had to chase RSA having  
not heard  anything for over fourteen working days  which  again  seems to have been an 
unnecessary delay given that the insurer ought  to have known that her claim was not 
covered from the outset.  
The legal assessment is also mainly for the principal  benefit of the insurer,  so they can 
assess the merit and financial risks involved with covering a legal claim. I appreciate that 
Miss W may derive  some  benefit from this, but I do not consider this to be a proportionate 
reflection of the distress and inconvenience  she has suffered.
 
The investigator awarded £150  compensation as a result of the distress  and inconvenience 
caused by RSA. Ive considered the impact RSAs handling of the claim and subsequent 
Ref: DRN24567923complaint had on Miss W. And having done so, I also consider £150 (on top of the fees for 
the legal  assessment) to be fair compensation in the circumstances. But I do not think it 
would be fair to ask RSA to pay the further costs Miss W incurred under her franchise 
agreement while she was waiting for a decision from the insurer   as these are costs that 
she was always contractually  bound to pay, and is not something the insurer  has caused her 
to lose. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to:
-Reimburse Miss W the amount she paid for the legal assessment upon  receiving 
reasonable proof of the costs  incurred;
-Pay Miss W the sum of £150  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2456792