K822xcomplaint
Mrs B is unhappy Santander  UK Plc put her money  in the wrong  account.
background 
Mrs B deposited a cheque  for a substantial sum of money in a Santander branch. She asked 
for it to be put in her savings account.  One month later, Mrs B found  out the money had all 
been withdrawn.  It turned  out the money  had been  put in an old savings account, which Mrs 
B had helped her son open over 20 years ago. Mrs B complained to Santander, she wants 
the money returned to her and for it to pursue her son for it.
Santander looked into the matter.  It said Mrs B authorised the money being placed  in the 
account by using her chip and pin card. It didnt  think  it could be held responsible for the fact 
her son had spent the money.
Mrs B didnt agree and brought the complaint to our service. She said through  no fault of her 
own she has now lost a substantial sum of money  and she wants  this back.  The stress and 
upset this caused meant she became  quite  unwell and had to go to hospital. Mrs B also 
reiterated that she was unaware of the existence  of the account; she didnt have a card or 
savings book for it and had never  received any statements. She said that she had to use a 
card to authorise the deposit and used  the card for her sole savings account. She doesnt 
understand how Santander  was able to put the money in another account.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought Santander had 
made a mistake by not checking which savings  account Mrs B wanted  the money put into. 
But, he didnt think Santander should  return the money  to Mrs B as this was now a family 
dispute. He did say Santander  should  pay Mrs B £200 compensation for the stress and 
upset shed been caused.
The bank agreed but Mrs B did not and asked  for the case to be passed to an ombudsman. 
She reiterated the upset and distress the matter had caused her. She emphasised she was 
unaware of the account and has now lost a substantial  sum of money. Her son has also 
provided a statement to confirm he thought the account was in his sole name as that is how 
it appears online. He explained he was waiting for some loan funds to come through  and he 
is happy for Santander to recover the money  from him directly.
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 18 November 2019. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint in part, for the following reasons:
Mrs B has explained she has a current and a savings account with Santander. She helped  
her son open an account  many years ago, as he was young and didnt have any 
identification. She wasnt aware  shed been added as a joint account holder to his savings 
account. She thought her role was only to verify his identity for Santander.
Santander has confirmed  Mrs B doesnt  have a card for this joint account and that she has 
never made a transaction on it. The account  has been dormant until relatively  recently. 
Santander explains that due to systems limitations  it only shows  the lead account  holders 
name (her sons) against the account  online. But, it says Mrs Bs name  was on the annual 
statements it sent for the account.
Ref: DRN21989772Given the above, I think its more likely than not Mrs B was unaware  of the account. Ive 
seen the annual statement and note that it was only sent to her sons address  so Im not 
persuaded Mrs B would have seen it.
Santander has said Mrs B would have been  asked to confirm the account she wanted the 
money paid into by using her chip and pin card. From this, it believes Mrs B authorised the 
deposit to the joint savings account. Mrs B on the other hand says she used the card for her 
own savings account  and was only asked to press the green button on the terminal  to 
confirm the deposit. She doesnt  remember seeing any account numbers and in any event  
doesnt know them for her accounts.
Santander has provided me with screen shots  of what the terminal Mrs B used may have  
looked like. The version provided to me is a test version and Santander has explained some 
of the information on this wouldnt  have  shown at the time. Because of this, Im not minded 
to rely on it as I cant be sure what information  Mrs B would or wouldnt have seen. Im 
minded to accept  what Mrs B has said about the terminal, that it showed the amount to be 
deposited and she needed to select the green button to authorise the deposit. Even if the 
terminal had of shown  an account number, based  on what  Mrs B has said, Im not 
persuaded she wouldve been in a position to realise it was the wrong account.
Perhaps more  importantly, given that Mrs B would have had two savings accounts showing 
on the system, it would  have been  essential  for the cashier to confirm that Mrs B had two 
accounts and double check which one she wanted  the cheque to be paid into.
Santander has provided a statement from the cashier that served Mrs B and she says where 
a customer holds more  than one account, she normally asks which  account they want  to 
use. Sometime later in our services investigation  of the complaint, Santander mentioned  the 
branch manager  said Mrs B asked for the cheque to be paid into the account with a zero 
balance. Given Mrs Bs savings account only had around £20 in it, Im not overly  persuaded 
by this late statement. In comparison  to the amount of money that was being deposited such 
a low balance could  be considered as being  near zero. I also note the statement didnt come 
from the cashier herself and the branch manager wouldnt have been involved in the 
transaction.
Having reviewed the account-listing screen the cashier would have seen, I can see the joint 
savings account  is at the top of the list. I think its more likely than not, based on the 
statement given by the cashier, having established Mrs B wanted to put the money  in a 
savings account,  she simply  selected the first account of that type, at the top, without looking 
at the rest of the accounts  held by Mrs B. As Ive explained above, I dont think  Mrs B would 
have been aware  of this account or have been able to identify the account number as being 
incorrect. Ive also seen  a copy of the receipt Mrs B received for the transaction and note it 
doesnt list the account number, so even at this point Mrs B would have been unaware the 
funds went into the wrong  account.
Having reviewed everything, I dont think Santander  did enough on this occasion to ensure 
Mrs Bs funds  were deposited in the correct account.
Now I must  consider how Santander  should put the matter right.  Mrs B has said she wants  
Santander to return the money to her and for it to then recover the funds from her son. The 
investigator has suggested that its a family  matter  and the most sensible option would be for 
Mrs B to sort out the matter directly with her son. But hes recognised this has and will 
Ref: DRN21989773continue to cause  stress  and inconvenience so recommended Santander make a 
compensation payment to reflect this.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs B but I agree with the investigator that in this instance  Santander  
doesnt need to return the money to her. By all accounts, she has already had some  of the 
money returned to her and as such,  it seems entirely possible that they should be able to 
come to an arrangement  for the return of the rest of the funds.  Her son has provided a 
statement saying hes willing to repay the money  to Santander, so it seems reasonable to 
think the same arrangement could be made  with Mrs B.
However, I dont think the amount of compensation  the investigator has suggested  is 
enough. This transaction involved a substantial  sum of money,  so I can understand how 
upsetting and stressful this has been for Mrs B. She has explained the impact on her health 
was so severe she had to attend hospital.  Its also been clear  from the conversations she 
has had with our investigator, this has been  very emotionally upsetting as well. Because of 
this, Im minded to say Santander should make a compensation payment of £350 to Mrs B to 
recognise the impact  its mistake has had, and will continue to have for some time to come.
Other matters
Mrs B has also complained about  how the branch staff handled the matter when she 
discovered the funds  had been withdrawn from the account. She says they were dismissive 
and discussed  the matter  loudly where it could be overheard. Mrs B said anyone who did 
overhear the conversation wouldve thought  branch staff were calling her a liar. She felt 
embarrassed and ashamed.
Santander has said the branch staff acted professionally  and didnt raise  their voices. Where  
there are two conflicting accounts, I have to decide  what is the most likely to have happened.  
Ive no doubt,  discovering the money was missing wouldve been distressing for Mrs B and 
the conversations that followed with the branch  staff may have been emotionally charged. 
But, I think its more likely  than not, Santanders staff handled the matter as professionally  as 
they could in the circumstances.
Ive recognised the significant impact this matter has had on Mrs B and I wont  be awarding 
any additional compensation.
Finally, Mrs B has said she has asked to be removed from the joint savings account but has 
been told that cant happen until this complaint  is resolved. I think  Santander should now 
arrange for this to happen.
my provisional decision
Im currently  minded to uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Santander UK Plc in part and direct  
it to pay Mrs B £350 compensation. It should also arrange for Mrs B to be removed from the 
joint savings account  held with the family  member  as she has requested.
responses to my provisional  decision
Santander responded and said to bring the matter to a close it would  agree  to pay Mrs B 
£350 compensation. It did however  make  the point that a customer should  always  check an 
account number  during  a transaction and that Mrs B could have asked the cashier if she was 
Ref: DRN21989774unsure. It also said, to remove Mrs B from the account, she and her son would need to go 
into a branch together to complete the forms and provide identification.  
Mrs B said that she was very unhappy with my decision, but feels she has no choice but to 
accept the compensation. She said the money was meant to help with her pension  and now 
shes going to have to look for another form of income. She thinks  Santander made  a 
mistake and no one is going to be held responsible  for that. She is the one that has lost out 
due to the fact the money was put in the wrong  place  and shes  very angry about that. Mrs B 
has said she will close all of her Santander  accounts  in the near future.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  Ill explain  why.
I understand the point Santander  has made about querying account numbers, however I 
explained in my provisional decision  why I was satisfied it was more  likely that not Mrs B was 
unaware of the account. Because of this, I dont think Mrs B would have had cause to query 
the account number at that time.  
I realise Mrs B is very unhappy about  what has happened, and I understand her anger  and 
upset about losing such a large  sum of money. But while I have a great deal of sympathy 
with the situation Mrs B has found herself  in, through  no fault of her own, my decision on 
how the matter should  be resolved remains unchanged.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint against  Santander  UK Plc and direct it to pay her £350 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 December  2019.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2198977