K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that AWP P&C SA (AWP)  has declined his claim under his travel insurance  
policy when his bag was stolen whilst abroad.
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  in this case. I received no further comments 
from AWP. Mr M did provide some further information which Ill refer to below.
background
Mr M booked a short trip abroad and took out insurance with AWP to cover  this. On the 
second day of his trip he says he was at a local tourist attraction and sat on a bench  to eat 
his lunch. He had with him his bag which he says was of medium  size with wheels. He says 
it contained a laptop, camera equipment, a Go-Pro, and Euros  400. 
Mr M says that his bag was on the ground  beside him and that it was touching  his leg. After  
a while,  he went to get a drink  from his bag and noticed it had gone. After  searching for it for 
some time, he reported the theft to the local police and obtained a report from them  which he 
signed. This report was prepared  in the local language, which  Mr M didnt  understand, so he 
didnt know what the report said. It said that hed lost a back pack  and that this had been  
behind him when it was stolen.
Mr M submitted a claim to AWP for the value of the bag and contents which amounted  to 
around £1,900.   He explained to AWP that his bag wasnt in fact a backpack, and it wasnt 
behind him. He explained that the fact that this is what the police report  said was due to the 
language barrier. He said that his bag had in fact been on the ground beside him at the end 
of the bench and had been against  his leg. 
AWP asked Mr M to provide evidence  of his travel  and of the ownership and value of the 
items lost. Mr M hasnt  been able to provide this evidence to the satisfaction  of AWP, but its 
rejected his claim on the ground that he didnt take reasonable care to ensure  that his 
property wasnt stolen
It referred him to the terms of his policy in so far as it covers loss of personal possessions. It 
states that hes not covered for personal possessions:
unless they are on your person, locked in the accommodation  you are using on your 
journey or they are out of sight in the locked  boot or covered luggage area of a locked  motor  
vehicle.
It also referred him to one of the general policy Conditions which  requires an insured person 
to:
 take reasonable care to protect [yourself ] and [your] property against accident, injury, 
loss and damage and act as if [you] are not insured and to minimise  any potential  claim.
It said that when  assessing  claims of this nature, it considers  all the circumstances relating 
to the loss, and that this includes taking into account where the items in question  were left 
and whether sufficient  care was taken to keep  them in view. It said that in this instance, 
although Mr Ms bag may have been  next to him, hes said that he was unaware  of the theft 
until hed finished  eating his lunch.  It took the view that it seemed clear that, despite the high 
value of the bags contents, Mr M didnt keep the bag in his line of sight at all times. The 
conclusion was that he hadnt  taken  reasonable care to ensure the safety  of his bag.
Ref: DRN20036042Mr M wasnt satisfied  with AWPs response  to his claim so he brought  his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator didnt agree that Mr M hadnt taken reasonable care in placing his 
bag on the ground  beside  him as he sat on the bench, and thought that AWP should 
consider Mr Ms claim without relying on this.
AWP has said it doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that the matter  be 
considered by an ombudsman, so the matters been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mr Ms complaint 
and Ill give my reasons.
AWP says its declined  Mr Ms claim on the basis that his bag wasnt  within his line of sight. I 
think it stands to reason  that if it had been,  his bag wouldnt have been stolen, provided that 
he was in a position to stop the theft.
Mr Ms policy doesnt specifically say that its a requirement to keep personal possessions  
within line of sight.  The policy  is actually more stringent than that, as it requires  personal  
possessions to be on your  person, locked in the accommodation you are using on your  
journey or they are out of sight in the locked  boot or covered luggage area of a locked  motor  
vehicle.  In reality, this is not always possible,  and I think  that AWP accepts this as it hasnt 
based its decision on Mr Ms bag not being on his person.
In basing its decision  on Mr Ms bag not being  within his line of sight, I think AWP is of the 
view that keeping his bag within his line of sight wouldve been exercising reasonable care. If 
this were the case, his bag is unlikely to have been stolen. But I also think  that a failure to 
keep possessions in line of sight wouldnt necessarily mean a lack of reasonable care 
provided other steps were taken. These would depend on the circumstances  but might 
include being in physical contact with the item,  or securing it to a fixed object, or to ones 
person in such a way that it would be apparent if it was being moved.
My view is that in the circumstances  of this case, the very fact that Mr Ms bag was stolen 
from the ground beside him indicates  that he couldnt see it or otherwise know if it was being 
moved. He says that his leg was against  it, but I think it unlikely that it wouldve been stolen if 
this was the case. I assume it wouldve been possible for him to have had it up on the bench 
beside him, or by his feet where he could  have seen it or anyone  attempting  to take it.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr M said he didnt agree that the bag wasnt  next to 
him, and he says that he hadnt placed  it on the bench beside  him because the bench was 
dirty with pigeon waste. I dont consider that this changes my decision. Mr M shouldve 
placed the bag where  he could see it and where he could  have  prevented any theft.
My conclusion is that Mr M didnt take reasonable care to ensure the safety  of his bag and I 
dont think that AWP  is acting unreasonably in declining his claim on that basis.
Im aware that Mr M has also made  a claim against another  business  that is the underwriter 
for a section of his policy covering gadgets. My decision only relates  to the claim that Mr M 
has made against AWP.
Ref: DRN20036043my final decision
My decision  is that Im not going  to uphold  Mr Ms complaint and I dont  require AWP P&C 
SA to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2003604