K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains about Covea Insurance plc (all references to Covea include their agents,
and all references to Ms M include a relative  who is assisting her).
background
I have issued two previous  provisional  decisions on this case as follows   
First provisional  decision   
Ms M experienced an escape  of water from pipes in her house  in July 2017.  Covea 
attended and discussions began as to repairs. A relative of Ms Ms who works in the 
building sector was involved  in these  discussions pretty much  from the start. There  have 
unfortunately been a number of issues and delays with the repairs.
At the start an asbestos risk was identified and it was necessary to investigate  this before 
drying works  could  begin. As far as I can tell it was confirmed in August 2017 that asbestos 
was present and needed  removing. There then began a series  of communications about 
whether or not Ms M would move out whilst works  were done.  This is one element I do find 
confusing, as around this time Ms M seems  to also be complaining about damp and mould 
in the property post leak, but she also seems to be saying she doesnt  want to move  out.
It appears to take until the end of September 2017  before Ms M finally moves out, but 
there is then an issue with furniture not being taken to her alternative accommodation.
In early October 2017 the asbestos has been removed and drying can start. This appears 
to be delayed as only some furniture had been  taken out. In mid-October some drying 
starts, and later in October other drying commences. In the meantime there  is a further  
argument over which  ceilings need  to come down  and which  can be repaired.
In mid-November  it appears a cash settlement offer was made  for outstanding works, but 
this was declined  by Ms M. Issues  are raised  around that time over Ms Ms health,  both 
physical and mental, due to the stress of the claim and the period she spend living in 
damp conditions.
Between November  2017 and January 2018 further  offers of settlement are made,  and
rejected. In January  2018 Ms M finally moves back into the property, although  some  
works are still outstanding.
In March 2018 an apparent final offer is made,  and rejected. Ms M complained  to us 
after that.
One of our investigators looked  into the matter, and thought that Covea should pay Ms M
£250 for issues  with the claim, this being in addition to £500 that Covea had already  
offered in this respect. They also felt Covea should  increase  an offer made of £5,500 to 
£11,000 to cover some outstanding issues with wardrobes being replaced, mainly  on the 
basis that Covea  had not proven that the £11,000  claim was incorrect.
Covea didnt agree  with the investigator. They stated that £550 has actually been paid for
the overall issues, and the evidence re the wardrobe works seemed to show betterment, 
and the amount claimed was not on a like for like basis.
Ref: DRN26569922Ms M didnt agree either. She felt that some  costs were outstanding concerning electricity 
used by the dryers.  That some broken tiles hadnt  been dealt with. And the redecoration  
of the house was still not complete.
As no agreement has been reached  the case has been passed  to me.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As all of the above  was some months ago I would first like to ask both parties to let me 
know if anything has changed, in particular if the redecoration works are finished. If they 
arent I need to know  if Covea agree they are outstanding, and if so what  arrangements are 
in place for them to be completed.
Irrespective of the above I need  to consider the wardrobes  issue.  For this I need each side 
to put forward their views  as to the quality of the original items and the suggested 
replacements so I can see if betterment  is suggested. Any documents from the respective 
suppliers here would also be of help.
And finally I need to consider the payment for the way the claim had been handled, 
that encompasses delay,  missed appointments and call backs,  and the general 
treatment of Ms M. In this respect I accept that any claim of this nature  will take some 
time to progress, and at times Ms M has asked for things that arent immediately 
available, such as accommodation that would accept her pets.  But even allowing for 
that there seems  to me to have been long delays in parts of this claim,  a number of 
promised but missed communications, and a general lack of urgency  for such  a drawn  
out claim.  I can also take account  of Ms Ms age, which Covea  were  aware  of early 
on.
With all that in mind  my current view is that a total payment should be made to her for the 
claim handling and delays of £1,500,  so that is an additional £950  on top of the £550 already 
offered / paid (and both sides should  let me know if the £550 was offered or has actually 
been paid). This is above our normal  level of awards  but this claim has been  ongoing  for 
almost two years, there have certainly  been delays,  and I do think given  her age, and state
of health at some points,  Coveas agents  could have done more  here.
I await  comments on the final redecoration, the wardrobes, and the suggested  payment for
distress and inconvenience. I would also warn  that after receipt of this information  I may
need to issue a further letter prior to my final decision,  as so many  issues  are still 
outstanding. 
Second provisional decision  
My first provisional decision set out my initial thoughts on Ms Ms claim and the time it had
taken. It asked  for more information about  whether works were finished, the wardrobes in 
contention, and invited comments on the distress  and inconvenience award I had 
suggested.
Both parties  have now responded.
Both sides agree the works are finished, although  Ms M states she paid some £1,053.76 to 
complete the works. Im not entirely  sure if Ms M thinks this should be paid by Covea, but 
Ref: DRN26569923as that seems to be an issue  after the basis of this complaint I shall leave that to Ms M and 
Covea, and not cover it in this decision.
Ms M re-states  the delays in the claim handling, and in particular the accommodation 
delay, but doesnt disagree with the distress award.  Covea do, they think  the £550 is 
enough (and confirm  that it has been paid). They do state that some of the delays were 
down to Ms M.
Finally on the wardrobes  Ms M has provided more copies of the quotations on file for these. 
Covea has provided  more copies of the photographs  of the originals and still claim there
seems to be betterment here.
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im also sorry for Ms Ms sake that I 
cannot at this stage  issue a final decision.  But I do feel I should make some  comments  and 
ask if either  side wants to respond before closing the matter  off.
Im glad the works are finished and as above wont be looking at any additional  costs  here.
As for the distress  award although  I accept the claim was possibly delayed by Ms M having 
a representative  I dont think this excuses  all the delay here. And at her age it may have 
been better that Ms M did have someone  helping her, even  if this did mean things had to go 
through them. Certainly she would have needed some help and the delays and possibility of 
being separated  from her pets would have  caused her distress.  With that in mind and my 
views in the first provisional decision I still think the award here should be £1,500  in total.
With regard to the wardrobes I dont think Ms Ms evidence  stacks up here. The quotations 
are for fitted wardrobes of what look like a high specification  installation. The photographs  
dont show that these are what the existing units were. They  are certainly not floor to 
ceiling fitted and dont look the same specification, they may be attached  to the wall for 
safety but they do not look like for like which is what has been suggested. Based on that I 
am inclined to award  only the £5,915.92 offered already.
Should Ms M want to dispute the wardrobe element I wish to make  it clear what  I would 
need to make a higher  award. A copy of a receipt from the initial installation  showing the full
specification and cost,  and proof of Ms M paying  this.
My current  view is that Covea should  pay £1,500 in total for distress and inconvenience (less
the £550 already paid), and £5,915.92  for the wardrobes.
Since my second provisional decision Covea responded and confirmed the £5,915.92  
cheque had been cashed in March last year. They were glad that Ms M had someone who 
could step in to help,  but they dont accept that the £1,500 distress and inconvenience 
award was warranted.  They are prepared to offer an additional £400 but no more.  
Ms Ms representative responded on her behalf  and doesnt agree either.  They consider the 
wardrobe amount  should  be higher, and question where you could  obtain  fitted  wardrobes at 
the price offered. They would like someone independent to look at these matters and have 
considered going to the press over this. And they question why they havent been paid the 
£1,053.76. 
Ref: DRN26569924my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be changing my 2nd provisional  decision. 
With regard to distress and inconvenience I note Coveas  objections, but I am still of the 
opinion that this matter took too long,  from Coveas side ignoring any delays from Ms Ms 
side, and that their agents could and should have  done more considering Ms Ms age and 
health. Whilst I agree it is good she had help that doesnt exclude Covea from blame over 
some of these issues. I still think £1,500 is the appropriate award  here. 
I have looked  again at the pictures I have for the wardrobes and just dont accept they are 
fitted in the way a reasonable person would envisage that. They  may have been  constructed  
on site and bought to fit the room, but they just dont appear to be of the higher specification 
claimed. So, Im not going to ask Covea  to increase the payment for them. As I dont agree 
they are fitted  as such I dont need to respond  to the question  of where fitted wardrobes can 
be found for such a price.  
As for the £1,053.76 as I said in my second  provisional decision that matter was finalised 
after this complaint was made, so should  not form part of the decision. If Ms M still feels 
works / monies are outstanding now, this will need  to be a new complaint which Ms Ms 
representative may wish to contact Covea over.  
I do note Ms Ms representatives wish to discuss the matter with Covea face to face, but that 
isnt for me to facilitate. It might be that Ms Ms representative would wish to consider court 
action when they could face Covea in court, again I cannot help with that and they may wish 
to take independent  advice concerning  rejecting my decision and issuing court proceedings. 
my final decision
I award £1,500  to Ms M for distress and inconvenience (less any monies  already  paid along  
these lines). Other than that I dont  make any other  award,  as I think the monies already paid 
for the wardrobes is enough.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2656992