K820x#14complaint
Mrs J is unhappy with HSBC Life (UK) Limiteds decision to stop payments on her income 
protection claim in January 2018.
background
Mrs J had a group income protection policy with HSBC. She consulted her GP following 
symptoms of anxiety. She was diagnosed  as having  anxiety states and was signed  off as not 
fit to work from December 2015.  Mrs J was prescribed  medication and was treated by a 
psychologist for almost 18 months. Mrs J also said she suffered with depression  during this 
time. She no longer works for her employer owing to her poor mental health.
Following a review of her claim HSBC decided to stop  making payments from 31 January 
2018. It said this was because Mrs Js consultant psychologist  provided a report some 
months earlier, in October 2017,  which said the severity of her symptoms  would not prevent 
her returning  to work and that she would  be able to fulfil the substantial and main  duties of 
her role. It also said that the evidence suggested  that Mrs Js absence from work was 
predominantly due to issues related to her workplace.
Mrs J didnt agree with the consultant  psychologists report  or HSBCs  decision to rely on it. 
She also began seeing  a new psychologist  with a view to getting  an alternative opinion   
which she would like HSBC to arrange. 
One of our investigators  looked into the case and said that Mrs J no longer met the definition 
of incapacity under the policy. She noted that alongside the consultant psychologists  report, 
HSBC had considered the GP records which indicated Mrs Js did not have signs of on-
going symptoms  for depression and anxiety.
Mrs J didnt agree with the investigator and the matter has now been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am not upholding this 
complaint largely  for the same reasons explained by the investigator.  Ill explain  my reasons 
in more detail  below.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that HSBC has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it should  not reject  a claim unreasonably. Ive mentioned this 
because this is the key test Ive applied when making my decision.  Ive found HSBC  agreed 
to pay the claim as soon  as it saw medical  evidence  of Mrs Js initial  symptoms  and once the 
deferral period had ended. So the key issue here is whether  HSBC  was unreasonable in 
stopping Mrs Js payments in January 2018, ending  her claim.
anxiety state and depression
In October  2017 Mrs Js consultant psychologist wrote a report  about her progress. He had 
seen her in regular sessions for almost a year and a half. In addition, given his level of 
qualification, Im satisfied that his opinion is deemed as that of an expert. 
Ref: DRN29543212The problems Mrs J experienced with her mental  health were symptoms of depression  and 
occupational stress  according to the consultant.  He highlighted  that the issues  had been  
worsened by the longevity of the issues with her employer. And he believed that for at least 
the first six months, her symptoms were persistent. He also mentioned, however, that 
Mrs Js symptoms had improved enough  that she was well enough to return  to work,  albeit  
on a phased return basis.
The consultant recognised in his report that Mrs J disagreed with him in relation to the topic  
of returning to work. But it was his professional opinion  that a gradual return  to work was an 
important factor in her treatment. And he was of the opinion that the severity of symptoms  
would not have prevented  her returning  to work  to carry  out her occupational duties. And so 
because of this HSBC felt Mrs J no longer satisfied its definition of incapacity.
To be clear, HSBCs  policy  terms describe  incapacity as Own Occupation :
The member is unable, by reason of illnessto perform the material  and substantial  duties 
ofher own Occupation  and is not following any other Occupation
And Material and Substantial
are those that are normally required for and/or form a significant and integral part of the 
performance of Occupation and which cannot be reasonably omitted or modified by the 
Member or the Policyholder.
When defining Occupation the policy also states that it did not matter who the employer is 
or where  they are located. Rather, the focus  is on Mrs J performing Material  and Substantial 
duties in return for a salary.
Mrs J had been a cashier  for a significant  period  of time. And given what the above terms 
say, Ive found that HSBC had applied these fairly and reasonably in her circumstances. Ive 
explored these terms because the medical evidence Mrs Js GP provided to HSBC showed 
that her symptoms had always had a link with her problems at work. This is also supported 
by her GPs  records:
     -    15-Dec-2015 History: Problems  at work,  THEY  WANT TO MOVE 
-06-Jan-2016  History:  Patients condition the samedoes not want  to go to work, 
fighting her case with bank where she works
-10-Feb-2016 History: Patients  condition the sameprob at work
-20-Jul-2016 History: Patients condition the same, no change  at work, attending 
private therapist  psychologist
The medical records persuade me that Mrs J suffered with work-related problems which,  in 
turn, affected her mental wellbeing.   The reason Ive highlighted this is because I also 
noticed her policy excludes  cover  for this type of problem. 
a) Stress or Workplace Stress, and d) any non-medical cause responsible  for her absence 
would not be covered  under the policy 
I understand that HSBC accepted Mrs Js claim in July 2016 and backdated payments to 
June 2016. According to her GP there were valid medical reasons why Mrs J was unable to 
work and it was noted the on-going issues with her employer were  worsening. So although I 
accept Mrs J had a qualifying medical reason for why she was unable  to work, its not 
Ref: DRN29543213necessarily something HSBCs policy  offers cover  for. HSBC has since recognised this and 
has subsequently suggested its not something  she should have received cover  for.   
In any event, HSBC  had initially accepted her claim and continued to pay her monthly 
benefit. However, following the release of the psychologists report  it became apparent that 
Mrs Js symptoms had improved by October 2017, and her conditions  were no longer 
preventing her from returning to work. So from this point  HSBC was entitled  to rely on this 
information to stop paying  her claim. I note this did not actually happen  until a few months  
later in January.  So overall I do not think its treated her unfairly here or unreasonably 
rejected her claim either.
I note Mrs Js argument that she began treatment with a new psychologist following her 
disagreement with the previous report in October  2017. She would  like HSBC to obtain  a 
new report from the new treating specialist, but I do not think  this is necessary. I understand 
Mrs J would like HSBC to reinstate her claim but I do not agree it should source a further 
medical opinion,  given it already has one. 
I know its not one Mrs J accepts but I see no reason  that HSBC  cannot rely on it to make its 
decision to stop paying her claim,  particularly as this specialist  treated  her regularly for 
almost 18 months.  And so  Im satisfied HSBC  has rejected her claim on reasonable 
grounds. Should Mrs J want to challenge its position here, then its her responsibility to 
validate her claim and obtain  the necessary and relevant evidence to challenge its position. 
However I also note Mrs J stopped  working for her employer at the beginning on 2018 and 
so I would not expect her to continue to benefit  from its group income  protection  scheme 
given she no longer works there.  
 
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mrs Js complaint and so Im recommending that HSBC take no further 
action here.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019..
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2954321