K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined  his personal 
accident insurance claim.
background
Mr N had personal accident insurance through his former employer. The insurer  is RSA.  
Unfortunately in 2016 Mr N had an accident  at work and was diagnosed  with slipped discs in 
his vertebrae.  He left his employment as his medical  condition  meant he wasnt able to 
return to his usual  occupation with his employer. RSA paid him monthly temporary  total 
disablement (TTD)  benefit under the policy for two years.
Mr N has continued to have lower back and leg pain. After  two years the TTD benefit ended 
and Mr N made a claim for permanent total disablement  (PTD) benefit, which is a lump  sum 
payment under the policy.
RSA asked for medical evidence about Mr Ns condition, prognosis, whether he had a 
degenerative condition, whether Mr N was permanently and totally disabled  from his usual 
occupation and whether  his accident  was the sole cause of his disability. RSA received 
medical reports from the doctors  Mr N saw when he made the PTD claim.  RSA declined the 
claim as it said the medical  evidence  showed Mr Ns injury wasnt just due to the accident or 
permanent.
Mr N disagreed and complained to us. He says his orthopaedic  surgeon told him he wouldnt 
be able to wear body amour again which means hes not able to return to his previous 
occupation.
Our investigator thought RSA fairly declined the claim.
Mr N disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide if RSA fairly and reasonably declined Mr Ns claim for PTD benefit and on 
the medical evidence I have  I think it did. I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Under the terms of Mr Ns policy, benefit is payable if he suffers a bodily injury following an 
accident which is the sole and independent  cause of Mr Ns PTD.
RSA doesnt dispute that Mr N suffered  an accident. The issues I need to decide are 
whether Mr Ns accident was the sole and independent cause of his disability and whether 
he meets  the policy requirements for PTD.
Ref: DRN24273902was Mr Ns accident the sole and independent cause of his disability?
Although the policy only covers  claims where  the accident is the sole and independent  cause 
of the injury if an insurer considers the accident  significantly contributed  to an injury wed 
expect them to consider whether its fair to pay a proportion of the claim.
The medical evidence  I have shows that when  Mr N claimed for PTD benefit he saw two 
doctors in the country where he lives to report  on his back problem.
Dr Ts report said Mr Ns on pain relief and having physiotherapy. In Dr Ts opinion  the 
condition is a consequence of an accident and a degenerative condition.
The report  from Dr L, an orthopaedist,  said Mr N had lumbar and other disc disorders and 
his pain would be worse if he carried a heavy bag or wore  a body armour suit. Dr L also said 
he couldn't say if Mr N had a degenerative  condition or not because the condition is 
multifactorial. Dr Ls opinion  was Mr Ns condition  was possibly related to his 2016 accident.
The medical evidence  is that theres more than one cause for Mr Ns back problem. Theres  
no medical evidence  that the accident  was the sole and independent cause  or significant 
cause of his continuing back pain. 
does Mr N meet the policy requirements  of PTD?
PTD for the Insured Persons usual occupation  with Mr Ns former employer is covered, 
subject to the policy terms. 
PTD isnt specifically defined in the policy. But importantly, a policy special condition which 
applies to the PTD benefit is that the disablement:
must be proved  to the reasonable satisfaction of (RSA) to be permanent  and without 
expectation of recovery before  (RSA) will pay the benefit.
Dr Ts report said he advised Mr N to see an orthopaedic  doctor for a further  treatment and 
prognosis assessment. 
The report  from Dr L, who is an orthopaedist,  said Mr Ns disability may be permanent, if he 
does not have an operation for remove(sic) intervertebral discs.
So the specialist,  Dr Ls, evidence  is that surgery is available  to relieve Mr Ns back  
problem. I think, based  on the medical evidence available, RSA can reasonably  conclude  
that Mr N has further treatment options  which,  if successful, will mean hell recover  so his 
disability isnt permanent.
On the medical  evidence  I have Im satisfied RSA fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
Ref: DRN24273903my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2427390