K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the charges Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance  (BPF)  asked her to repay for refurbishment of a vehicle at the 
end of a finance agreement. She also complains about poor customer  service from them and 
shes upset theyve continued to pursue a debt with her whilst  her complaint has been 
lodged with this service.
background
Mrs M took receipt of a used car in February 2015; she financed the deal through a 
conditional sale agreement with BPF.  In October  2017 she voluntarily terminated the deal 
and delivered  her car to the motor auction  where a third party  company subsequently  
inspected it and said there was damage to the car that was in excess of fair wear and tear. 
Mrs M therefore  received  a bill for just over £1,300  to refurbish the car to a good condition in 
line with the requirement in her contractual terms and conditions. She disputed this charge 
as she said the car was second hand when she took receipt of it and some  wear was to be 
expected. She said there wasnt a record of the condition of the car at inception  so it wasnt 
possible to establish  if the damage  now reported  had been  there  from the beginning.
She also complains that the refurbishment debt was passed to a debt collection agency 
before BPF contacted  her about  it. She thinks this was unreasonable  of BPF and she also 
thinks theyve been unreasonable applying a default whilst her complaint has been  being 
processed by this service.
BPF thought the damage noted in the inspection report was beyond  fair wear and tear and 
was therefore  chargeable.  But as the car had sold for £4,700 and the CAP value for a car in 
average condition  was £4,000 they agreed  to charge the difference of £700 instead. They 
also agreed to remove  any interest from the balance of Mrs Ms account that had been 
charged during  this period, as they accepted they hadnt  written  to her to explain any 
charges in advance  of appointing a debt collection agency. 
But Mrs M was still dissatisfied and she referred  her complaint to this service where our 
investigator took a look. She thought BPF had been  reasonable. She agreed that the 
damage referred to in the inspection report was beyond fair wear  and tear and thought it 
most likely that the damage had occurred whilst the car had been in Mrs Ms possession. But 
she thought BPF had been fair in reducing  their charge to £700 when the car had sold for 
more than they expected  at auction. She also thought theyd been fair when removing 
interest from the account as she accepted it had been clear  they hadnt  provided Mrs M with 
notice of the charges. She went on to explain that it was up to the business to decide 
whether they would continue to pursue a debt whilst there was a complaint  lodged  with this 
service and she couldnt insist that BPF didnt.  So she thought they were within  their rights to 
lodge a default.
But Mrs M was still dissatisfied. She didnt  think the refurbishment charges the business had 
applied were reasonable and she didnt think a default should have been  raised.  She was 
disappointed it had taken so long to process  her complaint and she asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision on it.
Ref: DRN26514002my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to apologise  to Mrs M for the length  of time shes  had to wait for a response from this 
service. I hope she can understand that complaint volumes have been high. Ive tried to 
respond as quickly  as I could in order  to minimise  that delay.
Having done so, whilst I know it will disappoint Mrs M Im afraid I think BPF have been  
reasonable in their approach to this complaint and I dont think they need to take any further 
action. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here 
I have to base  my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ms conditional  sale agreement said that the car would  
need to be returned in a good condition and that if it wasnt they could charge for 
refurbishment.
The inspection was conducted by a third party business after Mrs M left her vehicle with the 
auctioneers. There is no requirement for Mrs M to be present during this inspection. Im 
persuaded the damage highlighted in the report most probably happened whilst the car was 
in Mrs Ms possession. I say that because  she had the car for a few years and had driven it a 
considerable mileage  so I think  its most  likely any damage would have occurred  in this time 
than in the limited  time it was with the auctioneers before it was inspected.
The inspector has inspected the vehicle  to the standards provided by the British Vehicle  
Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA) who provide  the industry guidelines on fair wear  
and tear. These  standards  are meant to be applied to cars that were  received as new so 
Mrs M is right to stress that her car was a used  vehicle and as such, there may have been 
some damage when she took charge  of it.
But Im persuaded  BPF have been  fair in the way theyve made charges because they didnt 
simply accept  the refurbishment in the report.  They also considered  the loss of value at 
auction and as that value  was higher than was anticipated they charged  Mrs M less. They 
charged her the difference  between what the car achieved at auction  and what  the car 
should have achieved if it was in the right condition (the CAP average value of £4,700).
Mrs M says there may have been damage to the car when she took receipt of it but I think if 
there was significant  damage it was likely she wouldnt have accepted  the car. And 
regardless, I think the businesses approach of considering the resale value realised for the 
vehicle helps to mitigate  this argument.  Theyve only charged for the actual loss theyve 
incurred.
I note that BPF have  continued to pursue Mrs M for the debt despite her lodging a complaint  
with this service but Im afraid,  whilst some business will suspend recovery  procedures whilst 
Ref: DRN26514003a complaint is with us, they dont have  to. So BPF are within their rights to continue to chase 
payment.
I can understand Mrs Ms concerns when she was contacted  by a debt collection company 
before BPF had discussed the situation  with her. But BPF have removed interest on the debt 
as a result  and Im happy that their action is a reasonable  one in the circumstances. I dont 
think that they need to take any further  action with regard to this issue or the complaint as a 
whole.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2651400