K820x#14complaint
Ms C complained that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, failed to carry out her 
instructions to close her account, and that this led to charges and interest being applied  and 
adverse information  being  recorded on her credit file.
background
Ms C says she asked Barclaycard to close her credit  card account around October 2017, but 
Barclaycard failed to do so. She says she then mistakenly used the credit card to make 
some small transactions around December 2018, which led to charges and interest  being 
applied to her account  and late payments being recorded on her credit  file.
Barclaycard said Ms C hadnt  been clear about  her request to close the account, and hadnt 
responded when itd replied to her. It said it had now refunded the charges and interest 
applied to the account, but wouldnt remove the information on her credit file as it was an 
accurate reflection of the running of the account.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Ms C didnt accept the 
adjudicators recommendation and so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this compliant.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Cs complaint. Ill explain why below.
Barclaycard had sent us copies of its communication with Ms C, but theres  no record  of any 
communication from October 2017.
Barclaycards records  do show online messages from Ms C in July 2017 and September  
2018, where she asks for her account  to be converted to a cash back  credit card and says 
that, if this cant be done, she would like her account  closed.
Barclaycard responded to both of these messages with details of the account her credit card 
could be converted  into and asking  her to contact  it again to confirm  whether she would like 
her account  converted or closed. But Barclaycard says Ms C didnt respond.
As Ms Cs messages only asked for her account to be closed if other action couldnt be 
taken, I think its reasonable  that Barclaycard tried to confirm the action it could take and 
what Ms C would like to do, rather than just closing the account.
A number  of purchases  were made using the credit  card between late September  and early  
October 2018. While  I understand Ms C thought the account had been  closed and only used 
the card accidentally, it is her responsibility to make  sure she uses the card she wants  when 
making purchases.
Barclaycards responses made  it clear  the account has not yet been closed. I cant  see that 
Ms C tried to check with Barclaycard that it had been closed. And Barclaycards records 
show Ms C logged into her online banking in October 2018 and wouldve been  sent monthly 
Ref: DRN28442372paper statements.  So I dont think it would have been reasonable for Ms C to assume her 
account had been closed  and I think she shouldve been aware it was still open.
Ms C had a direct debit  set up on the account,  but this was only to pay the minimum 
payment and Barclaycards records show it was cancelled  by Ms C in December 2018. As 
the direct  debit didnt  pay off the full balance,  interest was charged  on the remaining 
balance. And as no payments were made after the direct debit was cancelled, charges were  
applied to the account and late payments  were recorded on Ms Cs credit  file.
Barclaycard has confirmed the account  is now closed and it has refunded the interest  and 
charges applied. But it has a responsibility to record accurate information on the running of 
the account with credit  reference agencies. As I cant see that Barclaycard made an error 
which led to the payments  being  missed, I think it has acted reasonably  in recording late 
payments on Ms Cs credit  file. And I think the late payments are an accurate  reflection of 
the running of the account,  so I dont think Barclaycard should have to remove  them from 
Ms Cs credit  file.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  by 20 October 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2844237