K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that he was mis-sold a packaged bank account called an Ultimate Reward 
Current Account (URCA) by Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland)  trading as Halifax.
background
Mr T took out an URCA in March  2011  which incurred a monthly fee. Mr T says he chose to 
take out the URCA because Bank  of Scotland told him it was the only way he could get a 
£300 overdraft.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ts complaint and decided that Bank of Scotland didnt mis-
sell the URCA. Mr T disagrees  so the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ts complaint.
I will firstly  consider whether or not Mr T was aware the URCA was optional  and whether he 
was given a clear choice in taking out the account. I think  its more  likely than not that he 
was aware and I say this for the following reasons.
Mr T had previously  had a fee free account with an overdraft of up to £100 with Bank  of 
Scotland. And I think  its more likely than not that he knew that fee free accounts with 
overdrafts with various limits were  widely available with Bank of Scotland and other banks  
and financial  institutions. 
Mr T says he was told that taking out the URCA was the only way he could get a £300 
overdraft. But Bank  of Scotland has provided  evidence that Mr T didnt apply for a £300 
overdraft before or for many months  after hed taken  out the account. So although I dont 
doubt his honest recollections, I think its more likely than not that Mr T didnt take out the 
URCA because he thought it was the only way he could increase his overdraft limit.
So I think Mr T was aware he had a choice  and chose to take out the URCA.
Bank of Scotland says it didnt  advise  Mr T to take out the policy. Mr T says it did.
Ive not seen any evidence such as an assessment of his needs or circumstances  to show 
that Bank  of Scotland did advise Mr T to take out the URCA. Im sure the substantial 
explanation of the accounts benefits felt to Mr T as though Bank of Scotland  was saying the 
URCA was a good idea.  But this is not the same as advising him or making a personal  
recommendation. And based on this services  knowledge of Bank of Scotlands  sales in this 
period, I think its more likely than not that Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr T on an 
information only basis.
So, Bank of Scotland only needed  to provide  Mr T with sufficient  information  about the 
URCA to make an informed choice.
Ref: DRN26580672The URCA contained a range of benefits  including worldwide travel insurance, AA car 
breakdown cover, home  emergency cover, purchase protection,  card protection  and mobile 
phone insurance.  And it offered better overdraft facilities  including a fee free overdraft  of up 
to £300. 
I dont know what Bank  of Scotland said or what information it gave Mr T about the URCA. 
But I think its likely Bank of Scotland  wouldve  described the URCA to him at some length as 
it was trying to sell the account to him. And I think the URCA would have  been  of interest to 
Mr T. I say this because Mr T had a mobile phone at the time.  And I can see from his 
account records that he ran an overdraft  after the sale and immediately benefitted from the 
better overdraft facility. 
I note Mr T says he didnt use the other URCA benefits. But I can see nothing in his 
circumstances that would have stopped him using them. He held the account for about a 
year. He was immediately  covered  for any car journey whether he was the owner or driver of 
the car or not; for home emergency at his place of residence; and for purchase protection. 
And, as this was an information only sale, it was for him to decide what he would use, and 
circumstances would  have determined if he needed  to make a claim or not.
So in my view I think  Mr T knew he had a choice whether to take out the URCA or not and 
he chose to do so. I think  the URCA was of interest  to him and there  was no information  that 
Mr T didnt  receive from Bank of Scotland that would  likely have put him off taking it out. So I 
dont think Mr T lost out as a result of anything Bank of Scotland may have done  wrong  
when it sold him the URCA.
I note that Mr T has complained that Bank of Scotland didnt advise or allow him to close his 
URCA when he got into financial difficulties. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr T told 
Bank of Scotland that he was in financial difficulties prior to May 2012 when the account was 
downgraded. And Mr T cant recall  when he told Bank of Scotland  he had financial 
difficulties. So I think its more likely than not any discussion  about his finances  took place 
close to when Bank of Scotland  closed  the account and arranged his debt management. And 
I dont think Bank of Scotland did anything wrong  in this respect.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2658067