K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) advised  him to start a 
personal pension  plan (PPP) rather than join his employers occupational pension  scheme  
(OPS). And he says that the sale of his PPP ought to have been  reviewed  as part of the 
industrywide review of pensions.
background
Mr W took out a PPP in March 1989.  At the time his employer had an OPS  and Mr W would 
have been eligible to join at around  that time (after a one year waiting  period).
Mr Ws representative complained to Halifax in 2017. He said that Mr W should have been 
advised to join the OPS  rather than take out a PPP. But Halifax said that his complaint had 
been brought too late.
our adjudicators views
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ws complaint. She felt it was a complaint we could 
look at further.
Our adjudicator felt that Mr Ws complaint should  be upheld. She said that there was a 
requirement for businesses to keep all records  of a pension review (regardless of whether  a 
review was conducted or not). She understood from Halifax that there was no record  of a 
pension review being conducted. Had a review been  carried  out she felt it would have shown 
that Mr W should not have been advised  to start a PPP in favour of joining his OPS and that, 
if a loss was determined, he would have been redressed accordingly.
After our adjudicator issued her view Halifax found  information that confirmed a letter  was 
sent to Mr W about the pension  review. And a second adjudicator looked at the complaint. 
But he didnt  agree that the complaint was brought out of time, as he couldnt be sure that 
the pension review letter ever reached  Mr W. And he agreed that Mr Ws complaint should  
be upheld and redress calculated.
Halifax didnt agree with our adjudicators  view and asked for the complaint to be reviewed  
by an ombudsman.
my decision  on jurisdiction
I issued my decision on jurisdiction on 3 September 2019. My view was that Mr Ws 
complaint had been brought  within the applicable time limits and was one that this service 
could consider.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on the merits of the case to both parties on 4 February  
2020. I said, in summary:
In reaching my decision Id looked at the suitability of the advice Mr W received from 
Halifaxs adviser. Unfortunately, there was very little evidence available  from the time 
that Mr W took out his PPP. While this was not surprising, given the passage of time, 
it meant that I had to reach my decision on the basis of what I believed was more 
Ref: DRN23699512likely than not to have happened, taking into account the available evidence  and 
wider circumstances.
Mr W said that he started  employment with his former employer in around March  
1988. And the trustees of the OPS had confirmed  that he would have been eligible to 
join the OPS after one years employment   so in around March 1989.
At the time of the advice Mr W was in his mid-20s, and was married  but with no other 
dependants at that time.  He said that he had an endowment backed mortgage, and 
nothing in the way of investments or savings.
My provisional view was that if the Halifax adviser had researched  the options  
available to Mr W  as was required as part of a suitability evaluation - they would 
have found out that Mr W had access  to an employers pension scheme, and should 
have obtained  a copy of the members booklet.
Mr Ws representative had supplied this service with a copy  of the members  booklet. 
It sets out that the OPS was a defined benefit  scheme. There  were two benefit levels 
under the scheme   a basic benefit level under which 1/80th of final pensionable 
salary was paid for each  year of pensionable  service, and a higher benefit  level 
paying 1/60th of final pensionable salary for each year of pensionable service.  Mr W 
could have opted for the higher level after 5 years if he wished. In addition, the 
scheme provided other  benefits including an incapacity pension,  life assurance,  and 
a pension for his dependants on his death.
Mr W said that Halifaxs adviser  didnt speak to him about the benefits he would be 
giving up by not joining his employers scheme.  He said he was only told that he 
would have had greater benefits with the PPP, and that it was portable  if he moved 
jobs.
Having taken account of what I knew about  Mr Ws circumstances at the time of the 
advice, I was provisionally persuaded that the benefits available  to Mr W under the 
OPS (including the life cover, and dependants  pension) would have  been  of value to 
him. So my provisional view was that I would have expected  Halifaxs adviser to have 
recommended to Mr W that he join the OPS rather than take out a PPP. And I was 
persuaded that, if Mr W had received that advice, he would have followed it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax responded to my provisional decision. It raised a number of comments  and queries 
but ultimately said that it agreed to settle in accordance with my findings in order  to bring  the 
matter to a close. Mr Ws representative has also accepted my provisional decision.  So, in 
the circumstances, Im not persuaded to change my view, and I confirm it here. 
fair compensation
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
Halifax should undertake a redress calculation  in line with the regulators pension review  
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision, in accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
Ref: DRN23699513promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision, if it remains 
the same.
Halifax may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension scheme  (SERPS or S2P). These  
details should  then be used to include a SERPS  adjustment in the calculation,  which  will 
take into account the impact of not joining the occupational scheme  on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension  plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump  sum after making a notional  deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his/her likely  income tax rate in retirement  presumed  
to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment should where possible be paid to 
Mr W within 90 days of the date Halifax receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest should be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Halifax to pay Mr W this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPs adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr W the 
compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2369951