K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained about the refusal  of a claim under  his legal expenses insurance with 
Amtrust Europe Limited. 
Amtrust uses  agents to deal with claims on its behalf. For ease, whenever I refer to Amtrust 
in this decision it should be read as also including anything done or said on its behalf  by 
those agents.
background
Mr K made a claim under  the policy for the cost of legal representation in relation to a review 
by HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) of tax paid in relation to work  he had done in 2016. 
Amtrust refused to cover  the claim,  as it says the events leading  to the review occurred 
before the start of the policy in January 2018;  Mr K was a contractor and there  would only be 
cover if he was an employee; the policy only covers employment disputes  between the 
policyholder and their employer; and it will only cover the cost of an accountant in the event 
of a full enquiry into a policyholders  tax affairs. Amtrust therefore says Mr Ks claim does not 
fall within  any of the sections of cover. 
M K says he has had continuous insurance  cover  with Amtrust, including when  the events 
that have given rise to this claim occurred. He is adamant that the policy  provides cover  for 
this matter. Mr K also complains about the way his claim  was handled and the time taken;  he 
also says there was a lack of clear communication. 
After Mr K complained, Amtrust agreed to get legal advice to see if there was any action that 
Mr K could take in the employment tribunal which might potentially be covered. The solicitors  
didnt consider that there was any employment  claim he could make, and confirmed Mr K 
was not an employee.  Amtrust also considered that any legal costs  would be 
disproportionate, as the tax owed  was apparently relatively low and would be less than the 
legal cost involved in challenging  the matter.   
 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He didnt recommend that it be upheld.  The 
investigator considered  that Amtrust was entitled  to reject the claim, as the legal dispute is 
not with Mr Ks previous employer and there is no other section of cover that would apply to 
the claim.  The investigator  also didnt think that Amtrust had caused  any delays or acted 
unreasonably in its handling  of the claim. 
Mr K doesnt  accept the investigators assessment of his complaint, so the matter has been 
referred to me. Mr K says the investigator  hasnt read the case  properly. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks legal expenses  insurance  cover, like all other  such  policies, provides for certain  
specified legal disputes, as follows: employment,  tax, personal injury,  breach of contract,  
legal defence, and property protection. I will consider each of the sections  of cover that are 
potentially relevant to Mr Ks case:  
Ref: DRN27450872Employment disputes
What is covered?
Standard Advisers  Costs to pursue a Legal  Action  brought before an Employment Tribunal 
(or its equivalent in Scotland,  Northern Ireland, the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man)  
against an employer  or ex employer for breach as an Employee  of Your  Contract of 
Employment.
Mr K says that his ex employer failed to declare properly what  tax it deducted  from his pay 
and says that he would therefore  have a case against them.  Amtrusts legal advice was that 
Mr K had been a contractor and not an employee  and therefore  he would not be able to 
bring an employment tribunal case against  his ex employer. It also says the ex employer is 
no longer operating. 
Mr K disputes this but Ive seen no other convincing evidence that this is not correct.  And 
Ive seen a document setting out that he was a contractor  providing services, with details of 
that contract  including  the frequency that he would  invoice for his services. Given this, I am 
not persuaded that Amtrusts position about his work status  is incorrect.  If Mr K was a 
contractor and not an employee  then there  is no contract of employment  and therefore no 
case he can make to the employment tribunal.  
Tax
What is covered?
Standard Advisers  Costs incurred by an accountant if You are subject to a HM Revenue
and Customs Full Enquiry  into Your self-assessment  tax return  other than those
enquiries limited to one or more specific areas. 
HM Revenue and Customs Full Enquiry is defined in the policy as being:  
An extensive  examination  by HM Revenue and Customs under Section 9A of the Taxes  
Management Act 1970 into all aspects of Your PAYE income or gains. 
From the evidence available to me, Mr K is not subject to a full enquiry but more importantly  
Mr K is not seeking cover  for accountants fees but is seeking solicitors fees to challenge the 
HMRCs claim for tax payment from his. This section of cover therefore  doesnt apply to     
Mr Ks case  either.
Legal defence
What is covered?
Costs in a Legal Action  to defend Your legal rights in the following circumstances:-
a) In a prosecution brought against You in a court of criminal jurisdiction arising  out of
Your work as an Employee
b) In a civil action brought against  You for compensation under section 13 of the Data
Protection Act 1998 arising out of Your work as an Employee
c) In civil proceedings  brought  against You under legislation for unlawful discrimination
arising out of Your work as an Employee
d) If an Insured Incident leads to You being prosecuted for an offence connected with
the use, or driving of a motor vehicle.
Mr K is not the defendant in any court action and even  if the HMRC took legal enforcement  
action against  him, it would not fall within any of the subsections of this part of the policy.  
Contract disputes
What is covered
Ref: DRN27450873Costs to pursue  a Legal Action following a breach of a contract You have for buying or 
renting in goods or services  for Your private  use or selling Your personal goods. The 
contract must  have  been made after You first purchased  this insurance and the amount in 
dispute must be more  than £250  (including  VAT).
This is not a dispute over the purchase by Mr K of goods or services 
Having considered the policy carefully  and the circumstances of the claim Mr K has made, I 
am satisfied  that Amtrust was entitled  to refuse the claim. There is no section of cover that 
would apply to the circumstances of his claim.
I am also not persuaded that there  was any undue or avoidable delay by Amtrust  in 
considering the claim or any particular lack of clarity  in its communications.  Amtrust had 
considered the claim and refused it, on the basis that it pre-dated the policy  and on the basis 
that Mr K had been a contractor at the relevant time,  around  a week after the claim was 
submitted. 
After Mr K complained, it agreed to review  the claim and gave its further answer confirming 
the original refusal  of the claim around  a month later. Amtrust got legal advice about Mr Ks 
employment status and reconsidered  the claim, to make sure of its position and also agreed 
to then consider  the claim under the tax section. It gave its further response to the claim in 
mid September 2018. I dont think this is an unreasonable  time frame and while Amtrust 
turned Mr Ks claim  down  three times, this was because it was reviewing the claim each time 
at Mr Ks request. Each reason Amtrust has used to refuse the claim has been valid.   
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2745087