K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Virgin Money plc (Virgin) blocked  transactions  on his account when 
they said they wouldnt.
background
Mr W travelled  abroad in November 2018. He says he spoke with Virgin  before he left so 
that his account  wouldnt  be blocked. But he was disappointed to find they subsequently 
blocked his account whilst  he was away. This led to two transactions  being  blocked and 
Mr W says he lost out on a business  opportunity as a result.  
Virgin didnt agree with Mr W. They said that during the call hed had with them they had 
explained that if we are concerned about any activity we may decline authorisation and 
that hed acknowledged this during the call. So they didnt think  theyd done anything  wrong  
when blocking the transactions they had and they explained the terms of Mr Ws account 
allowed them to prevent  or limit the use of his card.
But Mr W was dissatisfied with their response  and he referred  his complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator listed to the call Mr W had with Virgin before he went  away.  He noted that 
they had told him transactions could  still be blocked.  He said there were two transactions 
that had been blocked at 5.57am and 6.15am on 29 November. He noted that Virgin  
removed the block at 6.39am. He didnt think there was therefore  any evidence  that Virgin 
had done anything wrong or needed to take any further action.
But Mr W was still dissatisfied. He said thered been  another call with Virgin  before hed left 
and during this call hed been  assured nothing would be blocked and he complained that itd 
taken an hour to get through  to Virgin to remove the block. He asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W but I agree with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I agree  that during the call Mr W had with Virgin on 13 November he was warned that future 
transactions could  be blocked. Ive not been  provided with any further  evidence  that an 
additional call was made and alternative information  was provided. Virgin has confirmed that 
they have no record of any other call until Mr W telephoned to remove  the block.  So Im 
persuaded that its most likely there was only one call and that, during it, Mr W was informed 
transactions could  be blocked.
Ref: DRN23100542Ive reviewed the length of time Mr Ws account  was blocked and I dont think an hour was 
excessive or that Virgin should take any further  action with regards to this complaint.  The 
blocks were imposed to protect Mr W from any fraudulent activity  that may have been  
happening on his account. Virgin has acted within the terms of the agreement they have with 
Mr W and I dont believe the delay  experienced was unreasonable.  So Im not asking Virgin  
to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2310054