K821x#15complaint
Mr M feels that Close Brothers Limited  has treated him unfairly regarding  payments he made 
on a conditional  sale agreement for a car which has since been returned.
background
Mr M took out a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers to finance a car in August 
2018. Mr M has complained he had to repeatedly return the car for repairs.  During those 
times he was supplied with courtesy  cars.  Eventually Mr M returned  the car due to the 
repeated problems with it. Close Brothers has since confirmed to this service that it accepts 
that the car was of unsatisfactory  quality and that it has been  returned, the finance 
agreement was unwound/settled, the deposit  returned, and Mr Ms credit file updated to fairly 
represent what had happened. So Mr M doesnt  owe anything on the car but feels  the 
payments he made towards the finance of the car whilst  he had it should also be returned to 
him. As he says he spent  very little time actually driving it as it spent so much time being 
repaired.
Close Brothers considered this but point to whenever he had difficulties with the car, he was 
supplied with a courtesy  car of equivalent nature  which had a free tank of fuel. Mr M doesnt 
think the courtesy cars were similar enough and says this was a problem because  of his 
wifes health concerns. He also raises  the general  distress and inconvenience caused by the 
failings of the car. So when Close Brothers didnt agree to return  the payments  towards  the 
finance, he complained here.
Our investigator felt that Close Brothers  hadnt done quite enough. The investigator  felt that 
although the solutions around the car and its finance were appropriate the distress and 
inconvenience suffered hadnt  been considered sufficiently. The investigator took the view 
that Close Brothers should pay £200 in distress  and inconvenience to Mr M. Close  Brothers 
accepted this position. Mr M, when discussing the matter with the investigator during a 
phone call, didnt  think the investigators position  was fair. So this complaint comes to me to 
decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information  I have is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory (as some of it is here)  I 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr M describes how he took possession  of the car in August 2018.  Approximately three 
weeks later the cars warning light came on and it went into limp mode. So he returned it and 
was provided with a courtesy car whilst  it was repaired. When  he was told the car had been 
fixed, he returned the courtesy car and took the car he had the finance on. A short time later 
the same  issues arose again, and he returned it and received a courtesy  car again.
This became a pattern  and in essence between August 2018 and when the car was finally 
returned for good Mr M suffered  issues with the car repeatedly and returned it on at least  five 
occasions, each  time receiving a courtesy  car. On some occasions when he returned the car 
Ref: DRN25399272it was in for repairs for an extended time. So its clear he was reliant on the courtesy cars for 
a significant amount of time.
When our investigator explained the proposed solution to Mr M, he said hed hardly used the 
car during the time he had it and that there  had been some mileage on the car from going to 
the garage some distance away. The investigator then looked into this and asked the 
dealership, who said that although it didnt have exact records  it believed  the car had done  
over 4000  miles whilst Mr M had it. Mr M hasnt responded to this position by the dealership.
There is no dispute that the car was of unsatisfactory quality, so I wont  be considering that 
further. There is no dispute that courtesy  cars were provided whenever the car was returned. 
So there is no point  when Mr M was left without a car to drive. So the only areas  in dispute 
are whether  it is fair in the circumstances for Mr M to have  paid the finance payments he did 
and whether the £200 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience suffered.
The finance  payments
The statement  regarding the car finance shows that Mr M paid £241.25 on six occasions 
between September  2018  and 17 February 2019  as he was obliged to do under the 
conditional sale agreement. In March  2019 the statement shows the agreement being  
unwound/settled. Considering this and the notes  I dont think Mr M paid any instalments after 
returning the car.
Mr M suggests he shouldnt have to bear the cost of those instalments he paid. However it is 
clear that between August 2018 and March 19 he did have use of the car and courtesy cars 
throughout this period. And although I appreciate there were  significant problems his 
suggestion would mean hed have  the use of cars for an extended  period  without  paying  for 
that usage (outside of normal motoring costs  such as fuel and insurance)  and I dont think 
that would  be fair.
Its clear that Mr M wanted the type of car the finance is on, so for the periods it was working 
then he had use of a car type he wanted to use. But the courtesy  cars werent the same 
make and model. Ive considered the car he bought and note it was a used car whereas the 
courtesy cars were  both new. Ive also considered the model and style of the cars and they 
are broadly  similar in style and shape. And Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Mr M 
refused or tried to refuse the courtesy cars when  they were provided to him or that he 
complained about them  when he was driving them. So although I see Mr M has made 
arguments about the suitability of the courtesy cars, bearing in mind they were new and 
came with some free fuel Im not persuaded hes lost out due to the courtesy cars he was 
provided with.
So I think Close Brothers decision  to not refund the instalments he paid is fair in the 
circumstances.
Distress and inconvenience
Clearly repeatedly returning cars and using  courtesy cars is inconvenient to some degree. 
But I think the suggested settlement of £200 fairly  reflects the circumstances here.  The use 
of new cars and the free fuel that came with them enabled  Mr M to continue  with normal  
motoring throughout  the period. It was fair that attempts were made to repair the car. And Mr 
M hasnt pointed to any significant  periods  of time when he was without a car. And I dont 
think hes suffered substantially due to these  issues as I think the courtesy  cars were 
Ref: DRN25399273sufficiently similar. He has pointed  to the distress  and inconvenience suffered by his wife, but 
she isnt party to the agreement with Close Brothers.  So I cannot consider her distress and 
inconvenience here.
Mr M points  to costs which sit outside of the agreement he had with Close Brothers.  Such as 
of his personalised number plate. Im not persuaded such  a thing is integral to driving and it 
was not part of the agreement taken out. If Mr M wants  to change number plates to have a 
personalised number plate that decision and the costs  that flow from it sit with him. 
Mr M points  to an administration  charge of £50 he had to pay when changing cars. Im 
satisfied that hed not have had to pay this if the car had been of satisfactory  quality. Ive 
raised the issue with Close Brothers,  and it hasnt objected to paying this £50 additional  cost.  
Im not persuaded that Close Brothers  should pay any other  amounts.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint about  
Close Brothers UK Plc and direct it to pay £200 to Mr M for the distress and inconvenience 
suffered and £50 for administration charges incurred making a total of £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to let me 
know whether he accepts or rejects my decision before  29 June 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2539927