K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that Astrenska Insurance  Limited  declined her home emergency claim. She 
is also unhappy with the service she received when trying  to resolve her claim.
background
Mrs K is a landlord, and in December 2018 her tenant contacted her to say their boiler 
wasnt working so they had no hot water or heating. Mrs K contacted Astrenska, who sent an 
engineer (B) out to the property the same  day. 
In his report, B noted that there was sludge in the heating  system,  and that a new pump and 
water pressure transducer were required. He also said that the boiler was over ten years old 
and that a power flush would  need to be carried out before any repairs  were  done.
Mrs Ks home emergency policy provides cover  for Complete failure of your central heating 
system involving a boiler or warm air unit.  It then sets out a number  of exclusions. I wont 
detail every exclusion, but the relevant ones are as follows:
any claim  which is related to a boiler  over 10 years  old or a boiler  which has an 
output more than 60kw per hour capacity
any water pressure adjustments or failure caused through hard water  scale  or 
sludge
any costs relating  to the repair or replacement of the central heating pump or wall 
room thermostat
On the basis of what B told them, and with the policy  wording in mind,  Astrenska contacted  
Mrs K to say they would not be covering her claim. 
Mrs K disputed this, she said that the boiler was only four years  old, and that the heating  
system had been  power flushed  the previous year so should not need doing again,  she 
asked for proof of the issues  B had identified. Mrs K also let Astrenska  know  that she had 
recently suffered  a bereavement, and that the issue with her claim was adding to her stress 
at a difficult time.
After some investigation, Astrenska agreed  that the boiler was only four years  old, but 
maintained that the presence  of sludge in the system and the pump needing  replacing  meant  
the claim would  not be covered. It also asked Mrs K for proof that a power flush  had been 
carried out in 2017. 
Mrs K provided an invoice from the engineer  (C) she used for the power  flush  in 2017,  and 
confirmed that C had also now repaired the boiler, without needing to carry out a power flush  
or replace the pump. Mrs K has also said another engineer (D) looked at the boiler before C 
repaired it, but it appears that D didnt do any work  on the boiler so I dont think their 
involvement is relevant  to this complaint.
C also spoke to Astrenska  at this stage. He explained that he had not replaced  any parts on 
the boiler, but had fixed a cracked  diverter valve. He also noted that a filter on the boiler was 
clogged and brittle  and would likely need to be replaced at some  stage. He told Astrenska 
that he had not yet invoiced  Mrs K for the repairs, as he was aware  of the difficult  time she 
was going through and didnt want to add to her stress, which is why he had contacted  
Astrenska directly to try to resolve  matters.
Ref: DRN20869572Astrenska didnt agree that Mrs Ks evidence showed a power flush had been carried  out, 
and said that Cs comments  showed that there  was sludge in the system. It did though  say it 
would consider any invoice and report that C could provide.
Mrs K referred her complaint to us, as she was unhappy with how Astrenska  had dealt with 
her claim, and with how she had been spoken to by Astrenskas employee.
Our investigator looked at the complaint, she felt that it wasnt reasonable to ask Astrenska 
to pay for the repairs C carried out without an invoice or report to show what  work had been 
done. But she did feel that Astrenska was wrong to decline  Mrs Ks claim initially,  and that 
the service shed received on the phone  had not been of an acceptable standard.
The investigator recommended  that Astresnka pay Mrs K £200  for the trouble  and upset 
caused, and consider the invoice and report from C when Mrs K provided them.
Astrenska did not agree, so this case has now been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Astrenska declined Mrs Ks initial claim because B had said the boiler was over ten years 
old, because there  was sludge  in the system, and because the water pump needed  
replacing.
Astrenska has now agreed that the boiler  is not over ten years old. And C says he has been 
able to repair the boiler without replacing  the pump.  The only work that C has said was 
required was the repair of a cracked diverter valve, theres not currently  any evidence to 
suggest that the cracked diverter valve was caused through  hard water scale  or sludge.
I think this shows that Bs assessment of the problem with the boiler was incorrect, as 
neither a new pump, a new water pressure transducer, nor a power  flush  was necessary to 
get the boiler working again. So it follows  that I think Astrenska was wrong  to decline Mrs Ks 
claim on the basis of this assessment. 
But we dont  yet have a full report or invoice from C. To resolve  this claim, I think that if 
Mrs K can provide those  documents,  then Astrenska should  consider her claim afresh on the 
basis of what the report shows, taking account  of all the terms and conditions  of her policy.
Ive also listened  to the conversations that Mrs K had with Astrenska when  trying  to sort out 
her claim, and I agree with the investigator that these calls were not handled  well. The 
employee she spoke  to was often  abrupt,  doesnt  appear to have always  been listening 
properly to what Mrs K was saying, and did not take actions  he had promised to take
With all this in mind, I think  £200 for distress and inconvenience is an appropriate 
compensation award for what  has happened here.
Ref: DRN20869573my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Astrenska Insurance  Limited  
should: 
If Mrs K produces evidence detailing what work was carried  out in a reasonable 
timeframe, Astrenska should  reconsider  the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions and subject  to any policy limits/excesses. To be clear, should  Mrs K be 
unhappy with any decision  Astrenska make based on this report, that would  be the 
subject of a new complaint.  
Pay Mrs K £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the matter.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2086957