K822xcomplaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about the time taken to transfer  his self-invested personal (SIPP) from
Scottish Equitable  plc (trading as Aegon and referred to as such  throughout) to a new SIPP
provider and the delay in accessing his pension benefits, in particular his pension 
commencement lump sum (PCLS).
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 21 April 2020. Ive attached it and it forms part of my 
decision. In summary  I was unable to say Mr W had suffered financial loss as a result of 
Aegons handling of the matter and in particular Aegons failure to pay Mr Ws PCLS.  I 
thought the £500  which  Aegon had agreed  to pay for distress and inconvenience, was fair 
and reasonable.  
Aegon accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add. Mr W 
asked me to reconsider.  He confirmed his property  purchase was already underway by the 
time he needed to tell Aegon if he didnt consent  to the transfer to James Hay. But the point 
wasnt that he had time to make other arrangements.  There  wouldnt have been  a problem if 
the transfer had been  completed within a reasonable  time, even allowing for some delay. 
Mr W explained that he didnt know what the build costs for the new house would be. 
Various site tests were undertaken and a quantity  surveyor had been appointed to cost the 
build options.  Mr W requested the PCLS at the end of January 2016 as he wanted to submit  
a planning application, detailing the house  size and construction. The amount of money 
available directly impacted on that and the timing of the planning application. Mr W needed 
the PCLS to help fund the project. He needed to know how much  he had to spend  so the 
planning application was delayed until June 2016. Hed been told then by all parties  that hed 
get the PCLS in September 2016. 
Focusing on a claim for interest for late payment Mr W calculated he should have received a 
PCLS of £300,468.83 on 31 March 2016 (thats  after making an allowance  for the increase in 
value he gained because  the fund stayed  invested).  Interest at 8% (£24,037.48  a year or 
£2,003.12 a month) meant total interest of £22,725  was due. Taking  into account the 
investment gain and if another  party paid the compensation Id suggested that left a shortfall 
of £13,997.83 plus distress  and inconvenience. There was a long delay, responsibility for 
which should be met between the parties  involved.  
Mr W added  that the situation  wasnt of his making  - it was due to Aegon withdrawing from 
the SIPP market.  Being given the chance  to opt out was only slightly better than given no 
choice at all. If hed been asked to opt in then that would  have given  a clear message that he 
understood and accepted the implications. Opting out required a lot of knowledge about a 
specialist area. 
Id said that SIPP providers werent expected to 'second  guess' a mortgagees requirements, 
but it was entirely  reasonable to expect them to have adequate knowledge of the processes 
involved and not assume that novation would be acceptable to a lender  and that the lender 
would consent  to novating the loan. That demonstrated inadequate knowledge of their 
specialist fields. 
The information provided did say the transfer  could take some time and that requesting a 
PCLS after the transfer process had started would  delay  the transfer. But that was vague. It 
Ref: DRN21402962could be assumed the delay might be anything from a few days to a few weeks. Mr W had 
applied for the PCLS in January 2016  expecting to receive it by the end of March  2016. 
Aegon had said it usually  quoted a timescale  of between one and six months. Instead the 
transfer had taken about seventeen months.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered elsewhere the impact of the delayed payment of the PCLS on Mr Ws 
building project.  Essentially  I said planning  permission had been  applied for in June  2016  
and granted in September 2016.  But work hadnt  commenced until late November 2017. So 
it seemed his building project  hadnt been delayed by the fact that the PCLS (or the bulk of it 
at least) wasnt paid until January 2017.
It seems  from what Mr W has more recently  said that he wanted  the certainty and security of 
the PCLS actually  having been  paid before deciding on the final design and build options 
and the costs before submitting a planning  application. I can understand why Mr W may 
have perhaps felt more  comfortable in waiting until the PCLS  had been paid or was, so he 
was told, fairly imminent. But I think that was his decision. Building costs are generally only 
estimates. I think  Mr W would have  known, as far as possible, the expected cost of the 
various options. And he knew  what his PCLS was likely to be, or he could have asked his 
adviser for an up to date estimate. I dont  think it would be reasonable to say the fact that the 
PCLS hadnt actually  been paid stopped him moving  forward  with his building project when 
he knew the amount  of the PCLS that was available and which  would be paid eventually. 
Ive also considered Mr Ws interest  calculations. But they are based  on the assumption that 
he applied  for his PCLS in January 2016  and it had been paid in March 2016.  I dont think 
that sort of timescale, given the commercial property held in the SIPP,  was realistic. And, as 
far as Aegon is concerned, it wasnt until Mr W complained  in May 2016 that Aegon knew he 
wanted to access  his PCLS.  And, by the time Mr Ws complaint  came to be considered,  his 
insured funds had been  transferred to the new SIPP provider. So I cant  agree with Mr W 
that hes entitled to interest for delayed payment from March  2016. 
It was unfortunate  that it wasnt possible to novate the loan as planned initially.  But I dont 
think that points  to a lack of expertise on Aegons  (or the new SIPP  providers) part. They 
may have  considerable experience of dealing with mortgaged commercial  properties held in 
SIPPs. But different lenders requirements will vary, depending  on the particular property and 
other factors. 
As Ive acknowledged there was a considerable delay in completing the transfer.  But 
sometimes a transaction  will turn out to be particularly complex and take more time than 
could have been anticipated. But that wont always mean that one or more of the parties 
involved must have been  at fault.  Or that all of the delays could have been avoided.  From  
what Ive seen by the time Aegon knew Mr W needed his PCLS  it was too late for Aegon to 
do anything much.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Scottish Equitable Plc should pay Mr W £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered.
Ref: DRN21402963Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN21402964PROVISIONAL DECISION dated 21 April 2020
complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about  the time taken to transfer his self-invested personal  (SIPP) from Scottish  
Equitable (trading  as Aegon and referred to as such throughout) to a new SIPP provider  and the delay 
in accessing his pension  benefits, in particular his pension commencement lump  sum (PCLS).
background
Aegon wrote to its SIPP customers  in July 2015 to tell them its third party SIPP administrator had 
decided to withdraw  from the SIPP  market. Aegon had decided not to find another third party 
administrator. If the value  of the self invested assets held in the SIPP was over £1,000 theyd be 
transferred to a new SIPP with a new provider.  The insured funds (which  Aegon administered) would 
stay with Aegon (unless their value was less than £1,000). 
Customers who agreed to the transfer didnt have to do anything. Those who wanted to opt out 
needed to tell Aegon  by 28 September 2015. If it didnt hear by then it would  go ahead and begin the 
transfer of the self invested assets to the new SIPP  provider in October  2015.  
The information provided said the transfer could take some time.  The frequently asked questions 
(FAQ) section included the following: 
Can I still change  the Income I receive or take PCLS (Pension Commencement Lump Sum) from my 
plan?
Yes. Please tell us in writing if you want to change the income you receive or take
PCLS Changing the income you receive  or requesting PCLS from your plan after
we start transferring your pension will delay the transfer process.
A property  transfer guide was supplied. Amongst  other things, it explained  the outgoing  administrator 
and the new SIPP provider had agreed  a streamlined process for property transfers. Solicitors  would 
be jointly instructed. If there was a mortgage in place, a novation agreement would be used, where 
possible, to transfer the existing  mortgage  to the new SIPP provider.   
Mr W didnt  opt out. His SIPP contained a commercial  property  so that had to be transferred to the 
new SIPP. The property  was subject to a mortgage. In November 2015 the outgoing administrator 
asked the mortgagee to commence the novation process of the loan. 
Mr W met with his independent financial adviser (IFA) on 20 January 2016.  Mr W says accessing his 
PCLS was discussed and that on 26 January 2016 he asked  his IFA to request  his PCLS. Its not 
entirely clear what happened about that. I havent seen any written request  for payment of the PCLS. 
Mr W said his IFA didnt  contact Aegon about  paying the PCLS  until March 2016.  But Mr Ws IFA says 
Aegon or the outgoing administrator told him early on that the PCLS couldnt be paid until the transfer 
was completed.  And Mr W says he couldnt find anyone at Aegon  to speak to him over the telephone 
in January 2016 and he (and his IFA) was told it was the new SIPP  providers responsibility.  
In May 2016  Aegon was asked to transfer Mr Ws insured funds. The new SIPP provider received the 
transfer payment  (£415,860)  on 3 June 2016. 
By then Mr W had written (on 23 May 2016)  to Aegons Chief Executive Officer (CEO) about the time 
it was taking  to complete the transfer. Amongst other  things  Mr W said,  since the beginning of the 
year, hed wanted  to withdraw the maximum  PCLS  to fund a building project. 
Aegons CEO replied on 20 June 2016. He said he was sorry it was taking much longer than Aegon 
would have hoped to transfer Mr Ws SIPP to the new provider. He said an in specie transfer takes 
some time. Usually  a time scale  of between one and six months was quoted.  But that could  be 
Ref: DRN21402965considerably longer where, as in Mr Ws case, a property was involved.  The re-registration of that 
asset involved multiple  parties and legal documentation. Aegon was trying to arrange  for that to be 
completed urgently  but, as it involved third parties, its influence was limited.  Aegon was waiting for 
information from the mortgagee. Aegons CEO noted that Mr W was looking to take the maximum 
PCLS. But he said Aegon hadnt received any enquiry  or request about  that. Although sympathetic to 
Mr Ws concerns,  he felt Aegon had provided enough notice to allow customers  to make alternative 
arrangements.  
Mr Ws new SIPP provider paid £249,081 in January 2017. The property transfer completed in March 
2017. The new SIPP provider  paid the balance of the PCLS - £54,200 - on 16 August 2017.  
Mr W referred his complaint to us. One of adjudicators  looked into what had happened. He said the 
transfer wasnt straightforward because of the mortgaged commercial property held in the SIPP and 
that had caused most of the delays. But the adjudicator didnt think  Aegon had handled the matter as 
well as it could have done. In summary  the adjudicator said:
Mr W was 64 at the time.  He was approaching  his chosen retirement  age. Aegon  should have 
clearly set out expectations before the transfer commenced. Aegon provided details about  the 
process which included a section about in-specie transfers. But Aegon  didnt seem to have 
provided regular updates to Mr W about the transfer.
Having first contacted Mr W in August 2015 to make him aware of the SIPP transfer,  by May 
2016 the funds were still yet to be paid into Mr Ws new SIPP. It took some 17 months for the 
transfer to be completed. 
Mr W had said he was looking to access the PCLS in March 2016. The value of the (insured) 
funds on 31 March  2016, before  the transfer to the new SIPP  provider  was completed was 
£405,411.55. However, by 3 June  2016, when  the transfer was processed it was £415,860.22 
 a gain of £10,448.67.  So Mr W hadnt suffered any financial loss from when he says the 
funds should have been available  to him until when they were transferred.   
Its difficult to say Aegon should be liable for any loss for the delays caused to Mr Ws building  
project. Hed suffered  inconvenience. But it wasnt fair to ask Aegon  to
compensate Mr W for the monthly rental income  when Mr W had said he intended to move 
into the property.
Aegon failed to manage the SIPP transfer smoothly and hadnt provided explanations and 
updates to Mr W. Aegon should  pay £500 to Mr W towards  the trouble  and upset  hed been 
caused.  
Aegon initially  wasnt happy  to accept  the adjudicators  recommendation. It said when the complaint 
had been resolved (in June 2016) Mr W was aware  that the property transfer could take some time to 
finalise. Aegon didnt uphold  the complaint  at that stage and so it hadnt made  any offer.  It didnt 
agree it had failed to manage the SIPP transfer. It involved a property and that was largely outside 
Aegons control. It had explained that the insured funds would remain with Aegon  unless  it was told 
otherwise. It wasnt instructed to transfer the insured funds until May 2016. So thered been no delay. 
Mr Ws selected  retirement date was in August 2016. It didnt receive any request for earlier  payment 
of his PCLS. 
At the time Mr W had complained, the further  delays in the transfer hadnt happened. Aegon hadnt 
investigated the time taken from June 2016 (when it resolved Mr Ws complaint) and March  2017 
when the transfer of the property was finally completed. 
Aegon added: 
Each property has to have a property co-ordinator  who should be actively managing the 
property. There was reference to the property co-ordinator in various emails. He or she 
should have been up to speed with what was going on. Mr W would  have received a monthly  
bank statement  showing any transactions. He could have contacted  Aegon at any time to 
establish the position.  It explained several  times that the transfer could be a lengthy process. 
Ref: DRN21402966Aegon was reliant on the mortgagee to novate the loan. Aegon  tried hard to move it on but it 
couldnt impact the process. 
Having said the in specie transfer would  take some time it wouldnt have helped  giving had 
updates when  no progress  been made.  
There was less than a year to Mr Ws selected retirement  date when the transfer process  
started. Aegon didnt know how long it would  take,  especially as it involved a property. Mr W 
was able to take his PCLS from the insured part of his fund once it moved to the new 
provider. He could  have accessed that when it was invested with Aegon but no request  was 
made. 
If the transfer to the new provider hadnt been necessary and if Mr W had wanted to take the 
whole lump  sum at his selected retirement date,  hed have needed some  sort of plan to sell 
the property. 
It wasnt fair to say it should pay £500 for delays that happened later and which were outside 
its control.
Mr W didnt  accept what the adjudicator had said. He said the whole  thing caused him and his wife 
considerable distress. In November 2015 theyd purchased an old bungalow, intending to demolish it 
and build a new house. The majority of the build  cost was to be paid for by the PCLS  which Mr W 
applied for in January 2016. He was unable to access the major  part of it until late January  2017.  He 
couldnt start the work until after then and so there was a delay in completing the build. Mr W said he 
could have received a monthly rental income  of £4,000 for the new house and because of the delay  
hed incurred  a loss of £30,800. He later said the delay meant he couldnt  move into the property as 
soon as hed planned and so he and his wife had to stay in rental  accommodation longer than theyd 
budgeted for at a total extra cost of £17,000. 
Mr W said his understanding was that if someone was unable to access money that was his, he 
should get interest at 8% above Bank of England base rate. Mr W said hed asked for his PCLS  
(about £305,000)  on 26 January 2016. Hed been  paid £249,081 on 12 January  2017,  352 days after 
hed applied.  And a further £54,000 on 16 August 2017, 568 days after applying. It shouldnt take 
more than 28 days to access his money. Allowing for that and applying interest at 8.5% was 
£18,793.67 on the first payment and £6,790.68 on the second, in total £25,584.35.
Even taking  into account the increase in his fund value and what hed been offered (by other parties) 
hed still lost out. He also queried the increase in the value and whether  some of it was income from 
the property  or all a return on investments. 
Aegon then said it would agree to the adjudicators  suggested resolution, if Mr W was prepared to 
accept it. If he didnt  and the case was referred to an ombudsman,  Aegon relied on its earlier 
comments. It added that it hadnt appointed a property co-ordinator as that was the customers 
responsibility. 
We told Mr W that Aegon was now prepared to offer him £500  but he didnt  want to accept that. Hed 
asked his IFA why thered been a five month delay in requesting drawdown (the PCLS). The IFA had 
said that hed been unable to make a formal  application  for the PCLS  until May 2016 - Aegon had 
said it couldnt  take instructions as it was transferring the SIPP to the new provider  and was unable to 
do the appropriate valuations (mainly regarding the property) of the overall pension and so calculate 
the PCLS. Mr W didnt agree that it was up to him to appoint  a property co-ordinator. He said it was 
Aegons responsibility and so one hadnt been appointed. 
We asked  Mr W if his IFA could provide  any call notes, emails or letters showing when hed contacted  
Aegon. Notes of a meeting between Mr W and his IFA on 20 January 2016 were  provided. The IFA 
said most of his communications with Aegon were verbal  and shortly after that meeting. Aegon told 
him early on that it couldnt  pay the PCLS  until the transfer was completed.  At the same time another  
pension plan Mr W had was being consolidated  into the new SIPP. There  was no point in making  a 
formal application to the new SIPP provider  until the transfer had been finalised  as it wouldnt have 
been possible  to calculate  the PCLS. Mr Ws IFA set out a summary, with dates, of what  had 
Ref: DRN21402967happened. The IFAs report dated 8 June 2016 refers to the issues with the existing  SIPP provider/its  
administrators.  
Mr W said it was misleading for Aegon to say no request was made until June 2016.  His IFA had 
made a verbal request, but was told, until the transfer  was complete,  no PCLS could be paid. Mr W 
said hed been unable to find anyone at Aegon to speak to him about  his pension in January 2016  
he was told this was now the new SIPP  providers  responsibility. So Aegon had told both him and his 
IFA that the pension was the new providers responsibility. If Aegon hadnt decided to transfer its 
SIPP business a formal application could have been made with the PCLS  paid out within a couple  of 
months at worst. 
Mr W has said hed settle for £25,584.35 for not having access  to his money and a further £17,000 for 
the extra  rent hed had to pay. He said he wasnt qualified on how that should  be apportioned  
between the parties hed complained about.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr W that, following  Aegons decision to withdraw from this sector of the market, Mr 
W had to transfer his SIPP  to a new provider. Mr W didnt  instigate the transfer and the timing was 
particularly inconvenient for him given  his property purchase  and his need  to access his PCLS  to fund 
his building project
That said, I recognise  that providers  are free to make commercial decisions  about how to conduct  
their business. It is sometimes the case that a provider will withdraw a product or decide that it no 
longer wishes to engage in a particular  area of business. In that sort of situation wed expect  the 
provider to do all it could to ensure any transfer is undertaken with as little as possible inconvenience  
and disruption to the customer. That should be the case anyway. But I think its especially  important 
where, as here,  the transfer  wasnt customer led. 
A further issue is that, although the whole process was instigated by Aegon, a number of other parties 
were involved in the transfer.  Mr W has complained  not just about Aegon but about  the new SIPP 
provider and the mortgagee  of the commercial property held in his SIPP.  Weve dealt with those 
complaints under separate references. But weve considered all three complaints together. Mr W is 
also critical of the solicitors acting for the mortgagee and Mr Ws existing SIPP provider. The solicitors 
arent strictly within our jurisdiction but Ive treated them as agents  for the parties  they were  acting for. 
I havent looked  separately at the solicitors part in the matter. 
I dont think Aegon would disagree that the transfer took longer  than it would have liked  Aegon says 
it usually quotes a timescale of between  one and six months.  Here the transfer took about  17 months. 
I accept the transfer wasnt straightforward. The SIPP held a commercial  property subject to a loan. I 
think it was always likely that would cause some issues. At the outset a relatively  simple loan novation 
was anticipated. But it seems that wasnt possible and a new loan agreement  had to be set up. 
I dont agree the transfer went ahead without Mr Ws agreement or control  Aegons July 2015 letter  
explained that Mr W could opt out. I think Aegon gave customers sufficient time  until the end of 
September 2015  to do so. 
When Aegon wrote  to its SIPP customers in July 2015 Mr Ws selected retirement date was over a 
year away. The transfer process  wouldnt start until October 2015  but that still gave a reasonable 
window  some ten months or so  for the process to be completed before Mr W, as things stood, 
might want to start taking  benefits and in particular his PCLS.
But it seems  Mr Ws plans  changed and by the end of January 2016 he was looking to access his 
PCLS. I understand hed bought a property in November  2015 which  he planned to rebuild and then 
Ref: DRN21402968let or live in. A property  purchase usually  takes some time to complete. So Id assume the purchase 
was already underway by the time Mr W needed  to tell Aegon (by 28 September  2015) if he didnt 
consent to the transfer. If Mr W knew hed want his PCLS in the next few months he did have some 
time to make  other arrangements. I appreciate hed still have needed to transfer but the process  
would have been more  under his control and he could have  made sure the new provider  he selected 
(and indeed Aegon)  was aware  that payment of the PCLS was needed soon.   
Mr W says he requested his PCLS  on 26 January 2016. I think that was when he asked his IFA if it 
could be paid.  The note of Mr Ws meeting  with his IFA on 20 January 2016 records that Mr W had 
bought a new property. The PCLS was mentioned but theres  nothing  to indicate  Mr W had said he 
needed to access it to fund a building project. Or that hed instructed  his IFA to request it. But, from 
what Mr W says,  it seems  by a week or so later he did ask his IFA to request the PCLS.  
Mr W says his IFA didnt ask Aegon for it until March 2016. I havent seen any written request. I think 
Mr Ws IFA may have  spoken to the new SIPP  provider about it. I accept  what Mr W and his IFA say 
about having been told by Aegon early on that the PCLS couldnt be paid until the transfer was 
complete. I also accept  that Mr W was unable to speak  to anyone at Aegon who could  deal with the 
matter and was told it was the new providers responsibility. So, on the one hand, I can understand 
why no formal  request for payment of the PCLS was made. But without any notes  of the telephone 
calls made (and which  might enable  the calls to be located and a recording provided) I dont know 
how many  calls were made  and when or exactly what was said,  including  how clear it was made  that 
Mr W needed his PCLS urgently. 
Looking at it from Aegons perspective, Aegon didnt  get any formal or written request for payment 
and it wasnt until Mr W complained in May 2016 that Aegon  became  aware that the PCLS was 
urgently required. I also note that the information supplied  at the outset, which  included the FAQ 
section, said that if payment  of the PCLS  was required Aegon should be told in writing.   
Its difficult to say Aegon is responsible for the delay in payment  of the PCLS  if Aegon  didnt  receive 
any formal request for payment urgently and so didnt explore any options Mr W may have had. For 
example, Aegon  has said it could have paid the PCLS in part at least from the insured assets which  
remained with Aegon until early June 2016. Aegon did become aware there was an issue when Mr W 
complained towards  the end of May 2016. But at about the same time Mr Ws insured assets had 
been transferred to the new SIPP provider. So by the time Aegon had looked into the matter and 
replied (on 20 June 2016)  it no longer held any assets out of which it could have paid the PCLS as by 
then the insured funds had been transferred. 
The adjudicator said that even if there was a delay from 31 March  2016 (I think  the adjudicator  
accepted that a request  to Aegon had been made then) to 3 June 2016 (when the insured assets 
were transferred to the new SIPP provider)  Mr W hadnt suffered any financial loss as the overall fund 
value increased. Id agree  that because Mr Ws assets were remained invested up until the transfer to 
the new provider  theres no financial loss in investment terms at least. And as the commercial 
property was transferred in specie its value will have remained the same throughout.  
But Mr Ws point is that issue is that payment of his PCLS was delayed. Hed earmarked that for a 
building project which in turn was delayed and thats caused him a financial loss  in terms of lost 
rental income or extra rent hes had to pay. He suggests because he was kept out of his money he 
should get interest for late payment. Hes used a rate of 8.5% pa. Thats  bank base rate (say 0.5% 
throughout the period  in question)  plus 8% which is the rate used by the courts for judgment debts. 
But if we award interest for late payment  we generally  just use 8%. We might use bank base rate in 
certain circumstances but we wouldnt  generally  use a combination. 
Mr W is claiming interest from 26 January 2016. As Ive said I dont  think  any formal request was 
made then.  So I dont think it would be fair to say Aegon is responsible  for any delay between  then 
and when it did become  aware there was an issue. By then Aegon  no longer held any assets out of 
which the PCLS  (in part at least) could  have  been  paid.  Going forwards, I think  any claim  for interest 
(or lost rental income or extra rent paid)  would have to be made against the new SIPP  provider. Ive 
Ref: DRN21402969considered that in looking at Mr Ws complaint against that business. Ive also considered the overall 
delay in dealing with Mr Ws complaint against the mortgagee of the commercial property held in his 
SIPP. 
Lastly, the property coordinator (or rather the fact that one wasnt appointed) has been mentioned. 
Aegon has said one should have been appointed but it was up to Mr W to do that. I havent looked  
into whose responsibility it was. Im not convinced, had a property  coordinator been in place, that the 
transfer would have been completed  any earlier. Adding another party  to those involved already might 
have complicated matters further.  
All in all I cant say Mr W has suffered financial loss as a result of Aegons handling  of the matter and 
in particular Aegons  failure to pay Mr Ws PCLS.  I think the sum suggested, £500,  for inconvenience,  
and which Aegon has agreed  to pay, is fair and reasonable. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. Scottish  Equitable Plc should pay Mr W £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2140296