K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains that Azimo Ltd transferred some  money she was sending  overseas into the 
wrong account. The name she gave didnt match the one on the receiving account, so she 
thought Azimo Ltd shouldve spotted  the mistake. 
background
Mrs N made  three payments to a family member who lives overseas. The payments were 
made at the end of October  2018, mid-December  2018 and mid-January 2019. Mrs N told us 
that none of the money arrived  where it was supposed to. The money went  to the wrong 
bank, and her family member doesnt have an account there.  
Mrs N said that she was misled, because Azimo asked for the name  of the account  holder, 
and she thought that meant that it would check the name was correct.  Mrs N also felt that 
Azimo couldve done more to try to get the money back. 
Azimo said that it sent the transfers to the bank that Mrs N had named when she asked  it to 
make the transfers.  It showed us messages from her, where she initially said that the first 
two transfers were successful, and shed just used the same details again  for the third one. 
Those are the three transfers that Mrs N now says all went  missing. 
Azimo told us that it does  what  it can to check  bank  account numbers in the country Mrs N 
sent money to. There are different  formats of account number, and Azimo  does check  that 
the format given for the account number matches the particular bank. But it said it doesnt  
have any way to check that the name  its been given by the person sending  the money 
matches the name  on the receiving bank account.  And in the country where Mrs N sent the 
money, banks dont do that either.  
Azimo said it had taken  steps to try to recover the money, but it had always thought that 
would be difficult,  especially  as some of the transfers were now quite  some  time ago. It 
hasnt been able to get the money  back.  
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. He said that Azimo had sent 
the money where Mrs N asked it to. Theres no requirement in the UK for a name to be 
checked when  a transfer is made. And he thought  Azimo had tried to get the money back. 
Mrs N didnt agree. She said Azimo  hadnt  shown her it had tried to get the money  back. She 
wanted to see proof  that Azimo had attempted to recall it. But our investigator said that he 
thought that Azimo had done all it could. So he didnt change his mind. 
Mrs N still thought Azimo  had been difficult to contact  and unhelpful in resolving  her 
complaint. She wanted a final decision by an ombudsman, so the case was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
I understand these  payments went astray because of a mistake that Mrs N made.  Mrs N 
says that Azimo shouldve spotted that mistake. But I dont think  thats right. Azimo has told 
Ref: DRN29590512us that the country that Mrs N sent money  to doesnt check names against account  details. 
Thats not always part of standard banking practice   it isnt done in the UK, for example. So 
I dont think its Azimos fault that this mistake  wasnt picked up. 
Ive also thought about whether Mrs N was misled.  Mrs N said she was, because  when 
Azimo asked for the account holders name, it was asking for details that it wasnt  going to 
use. But Azimo  says it does need those details, to comply with other requirements in 
sending payments overseas. So I dont think Mrs N was asked an unnecessary question  by 
Azimo.
Mrs N said that Azimo  had been  difficult to contact.  I know theres  been  some confusion in 
the communications between her and Azimo,  but I dont think  it was initially clear  that all 
three of the payments  had gone astray. So I dont think that those difficulties were solely 
Azimos fault.  
Mrs N also said that she didnt think Azimo  had done enough to try to get this money back. 
Ive seen Azimos evidence on this, and I think it has tried.  I think, though,  that it also told 
Mrs N that this was always going to be difficult.  And unfortunately I think thats  right. Theres  
a limited amount  that Azimo can do, especially when money was paid out some time ago. 
So, again,  I dont  think its Azimos  fault that this money hasnt been returned. 
I know that Mrs N will be disappointed, but I dont think  this complaint should be upheld. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2959051