K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc has not been reasonable when dealing 
with his business borrowing given his financial and personal difficulties.  
background
Mr H took personal and business borrowing from NatWest. Its written-off the personal debt 
but it wants Mr H to repay his business  borrowing. Hes unhappy at its approach and that it 
has sent a number of debt collection agents to his home.  He has provided  details of his 
financial position and told NatWest about  his mental  health problems. He is now concerned 
that NatWest has said it will take legal action.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that:-
-There is a long history to the difficulties with the business borrowing.  Arrears had 
developed in 2013 and NatWest  had then asked  Mr H for his proposals for 
repayment. In 2014  it cancelled  his overdraft and transferred his borrowing to the 
recoveries section.
-Between 2015 and 2018 it had considered  his circumstances.  It had accepted 
nominal payments. It had put recovery on hold for periods.
-In 2018 it had appointed three  collections agents. It had not been  possible to agree a 
repayment plan.  And so NatWest told Mr H that it was going to be appointing a 
solicitor.
Mr H didnt agree with our adjudicators decision not to uphold his complaint. He didnt think 
that his personal  issues had been properly taken into account,  and particularly his mental  
health. He didnt think that its reasonable that he be made  bankrupt,  which  is what he thinks  
is going to happen.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
an informal resolution
Before issuing this decision I asked our adjudicator to help me in trying to resolve  this case 
informally. I was minded to think that sending repeated debt collection  agents to visit Mr H in 
2018 was not reasonable.  NatWest  was aware of Mr Hs mental health  issues and financial 
position. And I didnt  think that it was likely to have achieved anything  different by this 
approach. I said to NatWest that I thought it had caused distress  to Mr H and I asked it if it 
was prepared to compensate Mr H for this. I indicated I thought £500 might  be reasonable. 
NatWest agreed to this.
Our adjudicator put this informal offer to Mr H, saying that I would  expect NatWest  to 
continue to treat him fairly. He accepted it and NatWest sent him a cheque. Unfortunately 
that cheque was not signed and had to be reissued.  And after Mr H received the new 
cheque he then also received a letter from NatWests solicitors about commencing legal 
action. 
Ref: DRN28793032He didnt think that this was reasonable  and wanted  me to address this and also respond to 
him formally  about his original complaint.
the background
Mr H clearly had the benefit of the borrowing for his business. So its reasonable to expect 
him to take steps to repay  this. Our adjudicators set out some  of the history. And Im 
concentrating on what happened  in 2018 in particular. This was the reason for a complaint 
by Mr H which NatWest addressed in a final response dated 3 September 2018. This was 
about the appointment of debt collection  agents.
In that response  NatWest  said that the agents had been appointed because  Mr H had not 
contacted its specialist support team. Thats something it had asked in a letter that he do 
following a previous complaint it dealt with in December 2017
use of debt collection agents
I looked at what  happened closely. NatWest had appointed a new debt collection agent in 
2018 after there had not been any contact following its letter  to Mr H. That agent contacted 
NatWest in February 2018  to say that it was passing the debt back. There  is a record  of     
Mr H phoning NatWest  in February 2018. And that he told it that the agent was passing the 
debt back as he had provided it with evidence  of his mental health and financial position.
Id seen a copy  of a debt  and mental  health  evidence form dated 2 February  2018  that 
NatWest had. I thought  it most likely that this had been passed  to the debt collection agent 
and that it ought  also to have been available to NatWest at the time.
A new debt collector  was then appointed and it seemed its activity was placed  on hold during 
a payment protection insurance claim and then resumed. Mr H sent a letter to that debt 
collector in April 2018 enclosing the evidence form and details of his financial position. As far 
as I can see that information  supported a decision by NatWest to write-off  his personal debt 
at that time.
A further  debt collection agent was then appointed in August 2018. This led to further contact 
from Mr H and this complaint. He again  supplied details of his mental  health  issues. The 
case was then taken  back by the NatWest  specialist support team
my assessment
In my view NatWest was reasonably on notice of the issues  for Mr H when the first debt 
collection agent in 2018 passed back the debt. I am not clear  why further debt collection 
agents were then appointed, as Mr H had provided  details  of his vulnerability  and financial 
position. I didnt  think that it was right for NatWest  to say that Mr H had not been  in contact 
as it had wanted. There is a record of his call in February 2018. I do not see what  further 
progress debt collection agents could have achieved in the circumstances.
That was the view I took when I looked  at the case initially, as I explained above. And I also 
remain of the view that compensation for the actions of NatWest is appropriate. Thats  
because I dont think its actions were positive and sympathetic, and I find these caused Mr H 
further stress.
recovery action 
Ref: DRN28793033I appreciate that Mr H wants me to go further and say that NatWest  should not take any 
other actions  to recover the business  debt now. But Im afraid Im not going  to say that. 
As I set out above, its reasonable for NatWest to look to him to repay the money. Im not 
looking here at the circumstances surrounding  his personal lending.  But I do know  that it has 
already written-off  his personal debt, and that hes had an extended period to address his 
business debt.
I would expect NatWest  to treat him fairly.  But his vulnerability does  not mean that it 
shouldnt be contacting him at all. Its now asked solicitors to become involved. I think  that 
given it was always likely going to do this, then this point  should have been reached earlier  
without the use of additional  debt collection agents  in 2018. 
I dont think NatWest is wrong to be taking  this action, but I would expect it to treat any 
proposals Mr H now makes  positively and sympathetically and to be able to show that any 
action it takes as a result  is reasonable.
compensation
My view remains that £500 is the appropriate amount here. I wont be changing that for the 
clerical error in sending  out the first cheque. So I wont be asking NatWest to do anything 
further than this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require National Westminster  Bank  Plc to pay 
Mr H £500, insofar as this has not already been done.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2879303