K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains on behalf of Mrs S, his wife, about  the quality of a car Mrs S financed 
through a Hire Purchase Agreement with Black  Horse  Limited  (Black  Horse). Mrs S would 
like a refund  of all the monthly payments she made  as compensation for the inconvenience 
of having a faulty car.
background
Mr S says his wife bought a second hand  car in August 2017.  He  said the day she got the 
car she noticed a rattle  noise but he says the garage  just put the car on a ramp  and said it 
was fine.
He says Mrs S had numerous  problems with the car that it was in and out of the garage for 
two years.  Eventually  she returned the car and bought another  one. 
He says when  they complained to Black  Horse it arranged an independent inspection which 
condemned the car.
He feels it would be fair for Black Horse to refund  all the monthly  payments Mrs S made as 
compensation.
Black House said Mrs S bought a second hand car with 19,877  miles on the clock  so it might  
be reasonable to expect  some issues. It arranged an independent inspection  which  
confirmed there was no evidence of faults present or developing at the point of sale.  On this 
basis it didnt feel it needed  to compensate Mrs S.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt feel that Black  Horse needed to 
compensate Mrs S as there was no evidence to say that there were faults present or 
developing at the point of sale.
Black Horse  accepted this view but Mrs S didnt.
Mr S said he thought Black Horse  had wasted a lot of time and hadnt been  professional  in 
the way it handled the situation.
.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view.  She explained that 
Black Horse  had arranged an independent inspection  which  she felt was a reasonable. She 
explained that its usual for finance companies to go back to dealerships  to get information on 
repairs and that this can take some  time.  She didnt feel it was our role to comment  on Black 
Horses professionalism.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S feels  strongly about this so I appreciate she is going to be disappointed  as Ive 
reached the same view as our investigator.
Ref: DRN23018232I dont think there is any dispute that Mrs S had a range of issues  that she had with a car she 
bought through a Hire Purchase  Agreement with Black Horse. Our investigator  listed  all of 
the problems Mrs S had in her view so I am not going to re-list those here.
What I do think is important  is that Mrs S bought her car on 21 August 2017. The worksheets 
we have show that the car was first looked at in February 2018  with regard to cloudy 
headlights and a faulty stereo. So this was around six months after Mrs S got the car. 
When Mrs S complained to Black  Horse it arranged an independent inspection of the car. 
Ive read this report. It noted a number  of issues with the car which,  again,  I am not going to 
list in detail since our investigator  fully covered  this in her view. What  I think is important is 
that the inspector didnt think that any of the faults he found were present or developing at 
the point of sale.
The report  did note that there was a brief rattle from the exhaust  when the engine  started  
which required investigation.  Mrs S told us she raised this the first day she had the car. 
Unfortunately I have no evidence to confirm  this. But the independent  report doesnt say that 
this issue was present  or developing at the point of sale .And I agree with our investigator 
that as the car passed its MOT in March  2018 its likely that had this been a serious  issue this 
would likely  have been found then.
Its unfortunate that Mrs S has had a number of problems but issues  can arise  with second 
hand cars. But we can only consider Black Horse  liable for any repairs, and if appropriate, 
for any compensation if there is evidence to show that there were issues at the point of sale. 
But the independent report concluded  there werent  any so on that basis I dont think  I can 
reasonably conclude that Black Horse should  refund  all of the payments Mrs S made as she 
has requested.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2301823