K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Apollo Pension  & Investment Advisers (Apollo) gave her unsuitable 
advice. She was advised to set up a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP) and then made  
an investment in Lomaxfind which she says was too high risk for her. 
background
Mrs M was an existing  client  of Apollo. In 2012 Mrs M met her adviser  to discuss her 
retirement planning. Mrs M had a pension pot of over £300,000 held in a personal pension. 
These funds had recently been switched to a cash fund.
A fact find completed at the time noted that Mrs M was employed  earning around £24,000. 
She had savings of £70,000 in cash and a repayment mortgage of £110,000.
Mrs Ms attitude to risk was described  as mixed  and variable according to the opportunity. 
And it was noted  that her risk profile varied  from medium to highly speculative.
In the suitability report dated March  2012  the adviser said:
We discussed one other  option and that would be to move your plan to something  altogether  
new. This would  be a full Self Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP). SIPP's allow you to invest  
into the normal range of funds, but also a host of other options. This can include  shares,  
property and structured  products  or what is known as alternative investments.
He went on to say:
There is no point in discussing  specific investments at the moment  until the funds have 
arrived. We will need to meet again to discuss them further and I will write to confirm  what 
you have agreed  to proceed with.
It appears that the adviser discussed  a number of investments  with Mrs M over a period of 
several months. Mrs M invested in three unregulated investments including  Lomaxfind,  a 
student accommodation new build, by way of an unsecured loan note.
In an email to Mrs M dated  March  2012 the adviser  said:
The student let proposal looks very good  and straightforward. I couldn't fault it at all and the 
nature of this is a first in the way it is structured.
Mrs M invested  £70,000 in Lomaxfind. 
In 2017 the company went into administration and Mrs M complained to Apollo. She said the 
investment had been too high risk for her.
Apollo did not uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  It said she had been aware of the risks and had 
even suggested  some alternative investments.  It also said it had previously settled a claim 
about one of the other unregulated investments held within Mrs Ms SIPP. It questioned  why 
Mrs M hadnt  complained  about all three  unregulated investments at the time.
Mrs M was not satisfied with Apollos  response and referred  her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator considered Mrs Ms complaint and recommended  that it should be upheld. 
He said that he had limited his assessment  to the investment Mrs M had complained about. 
Ref: DRN28981002He noted that Mrs M was not an experienced investor and aside from her SIPP only had 
deposit based savings. As this was the case, he said he didnt think  she should  have  been  
classified as a speculative investor. He said he was of the view that the Lomaxfind 
investment was too high risk for Mrs M.
Apollo did not accept  out adjudicators view. It reiterated that it felt Mrs M had been aware of 
the risks involved and had been  keen to invest in unregulated and alternative investments. 
It queried again why Mrs M hadnt  complained about  the remaining unregulated investment 
in her SIPP. It also said that a new company was proposing to take over the failed student 
accommodation investment company. It said it was likely that it would repay  the debts and 
Mrs M would  get her funds back.
Our adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his view. He noted Apollos comments  about 
the potential future takeover. He said he had accounted for such a possibility in his redress  
recommendation. And he said that Mrs M should be compensated  now and shouldnt have 
to wait for a potential  takeover at some point in the future.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld.  Ill explain why.
investments in Mrs Ms SIPP
Mrs M has raised a complaint about  one of the investments  within her SIPP. She says it was 
too high risk for her. As Apollo has noted Mrs M has already complained about another of 
the unregulated  investments within her SIPP. This complaint was upheld.
In its response to our adjudicators view Apollo said:
I find great difficulty in comprehending  how a similar high risk product is not taken  into 
account with all gains  considered simply because  the investor has not complained about 
this. (The [name of unregulated investment Mrs M has not complained  about]  will have 
matured now and the proceeds  should  be, or about  to be, remitted to the SIPP bank 
account). That I feel is hugely  selective and goes against any reasonable logic at all.
In order to consider  this point more fully I asked  Apollo to provide details of all the 
investments within  Mrs Ms SIPP. I said that if it could provide evidence to show  that the 
investment Mrs M had complained about  was part of a portfolio of investments it had 
arranged to meet her investment  objectives I would consider the overall  portfolio  of 
investments made. I also asked it for a copy of any letters or reports sent to Mrs M at the 
time setting  out the investment recommendations that had been made and how Apollo 
considered the overall portfolio of investments was suitable for Mrs Ms attitude to risk and 
investment objectives.
Apollo responded to say that it had not issued a suitability letter or report  covering all the 
investments in Mrs Ms SIPP. It provided  a copy of the suitability letter  it sent Mrs M 
discussing the structured  products  it had advised her to take out. It said; No such  letter 
Ref: DRN28981003was produced for Lomax/Primesite as this was information only and the decision left to the 
investor to decide  if they wished to proceed  and accept the risk.
I also note that Apollo  has also previously said that although it recommended  the SIPP it did 
not provide advice on the unregulated investments Mrs M took out. These investments were 
arranged by an unregulated company. Mrs Ms adviser was a consultant for this unregulated 
company as well as an adviser for Apollo. 
As Mrs Ms adviser  had arranged her SIPP I think he had a duty of care to ensure that any 
investments he arranged that were held in the SIPP were in line with both her attitude  to risk 
and her ability to bear risk.
The Financial Services Authority issued  an alert in January 2013 and said: it should be 
particularly clear to financial advisers  that, where a customer  seeks  advice on a pension 
transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy the advice on the pension transfer must 
take account of the overall investment strategy  the customer is contemplating.
Although this alert was issued after the advice  was given to Mrs M, like our adjudicator I 
think it represents the regulator's view of how the adviser should  have assessed the 
suitability of any advice  given. 
I don't think it was possible for the adviser  to give suitable advice to transfer to a SIPP 
unless he was aware of the likely  investment strategy going forward. In Mrs M's case her 
adviser was an adviser at Apollo and a consultant for the unregulated business that 
arranged the Lomaxfind investment. He must therefore have been aware of the unregulated 
investments that were  made.
I have very carefully considered whether the investments that Mrs M held within in her SIPP  
were part of a carefully designed portfolio. Having done, so I dont think the investments 
made were part of a portfolio designed to meet Mrs Ms needs and objectives.
I think they were simply an assortment of investments  held within a SIPP wrapper. I have  
reached this view as I havent  seen anything that shows consideration was given to Mrs Ms 
other investments or how the Lomaxfind  investment might fit into her overall  portfolio. Apollo  
has confirmed that it didnt provide anything to Mrs M explaining how the investments within 
her SIPP met her investment objectives.  Likewise it hasnt  provided  anything to show  that it 
had considered the overall level of investment risk Mrs M was taking  within her SIPP and 
whether this was in line with her attitude  to risk and her ability to bear risk.
As this is the case I dont  think it is necessary  to consider the other investments Mrs M held 
within her SIPP when  considering this complaint.
In reaching this view I have also take into account that in the suitability letter  Apollo has 
provided that covered the structured products recommended it said:
The aim of the transfer to the SIPP was to allow you to access investments which  are not 
normally via an insurance company  plan. We agreed that the market  outlook for some 
considerable time would  be a very muted  with occasional  rallies, followed by 'scare' sell offs. 
Certainly in my opinion  we are in a long term semi  recessionary environment. The need to 
invigorate returns in a pension plan has newer been  more pressing in my view. For now we 
will deal with the investment of £80.000 and discuss other opportunities at our next meeting.
Ref: DRN28981004There is nothing in this letter  that suggests that Apollo was intending to arrange a portfolio of 
investments that, when  considered overall, would be suitable  for Mrs M attitude  to risk and 
her ability to bear risk.
investment
In the fact find information Apollo  noted  that Mrs Ms attitude to risk was mixed and variable 
according to the opportunity. And it was noted that her risk profile varied from medium to 
highly speculative.
But, even  if Mrs M was willing to invest in highly speculative investments, Apollo  still needed  
to assess whether Mrs M was in a position to take a high level of risk with the funds in her 
SIPP. Based  on the information that has been  provided to this service about Mrs Ms 
personal and financial  situation I dont think she was in a position  to take a high level of 
investment risk with her SIPP funds.
I note that Mrs M has cash savings, but no other  equity backed investments. In view of this I 
dont think she was an experienced or sophisticated investor.  Likewise I note that Mrs M had 
moved her personal pension fund to cash in 2011 based on Apollos advice. I think  this 
shows that Mrs M was reliant on Apollo to guide her.
The student accommodation Mrs M invested  in was an unregulated investment. It was an off 
plan development with no track record or guarantee of success. The investment was illiquid  
and speculative. I havent seen anything that suggests Mrs M was experienced in this type of 
investment.
Likewise, I dont think the risks involved were  consistent with Mrs Ms ability to bear risk. I 
think that if she had fully understood the risks involved she would not have gone ahead with 
the investment.  
Apollo has said that Mrs M was fully aware of the risks involved and that she was actively  
considering alternative  investments. It said she had said she was up for a punt. 
Even if this was the case this does not mean  that the adviser should have proposed  an 
investment was too high risk for Mrs M when she was not in a position to take the level of 
risk involved  in the investment. The student accommodation investment would typically only 
be suitable for experienced and sophisticated  investors. 
I note, in an email to Apollo dated 10 May 2012, Mrs M said:
In order to understand more about unregulated and regulated  investments  could  you please 
refer me to the specific rules and regulations that limit the proportion  of my pension fund that 
can be invested in any one investment vehicle. Are you saying and [name  of two fund 
managers] are therefore unregulated?  Which  is why I cant do more in them?
I think this shows that Mrs M didnt understand the difference between regulated and 
unregulated investments and wasnt aware  of all the risks involved.  I think  she was relying 
on Apollo, as her adviser, to recommend suitable  investments. 
current status of investment
Ref: DRN28981005I understand that Lomaxfind Limited  is in administration. In earlier  correspondence  with this 
service Apollo indicated  that a takeover was being  considered with a plan to restructure and 
pay off the outstanding debts. Apollo said it thought  Mrs M would be reimbursed in time. 
Apollo has now updated  this service  on the position with the investment and it appears the 
planned take-over  did not go ahead. 
Should this position  change  the redress set out below  allows  for this.
I note that Apollo has said Mrs M received interest in her Lomaxfind investment. Any income, 
distributions or withdrawals from this investment is taken  into account in the redress  
calculation I have set out.
I am also of the view that Mrs M should  be compensated for the disruption this matter  has 
caused to her pension planning. I think the £150  recommended by our adjudicator is fair and 
reasonable.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs M should be put as closely as possible into the position  she would 
probably now be in if she had been  given  suitable  advice.
I take the view that Mrs M would  have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mrs M's circumstances and objectives when  she invested. 
What should Apollo  do?
To compensate Mrs M fairly, Apollo must:
Compare the performance of Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Apollo should  add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Apollo should pay into Mrs M's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Apollo is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs M's pension plan, it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to her. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected  retirement  age. 
Ref: DRN28981006For example, if Mrs M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs M would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mrs M £150 for the disruption caused to her retirement  planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Apollo deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs M how much  has been  taken off. Apollo should give Mrs M a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Lomaxfind
Limitedstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Apollo should take ownership of the illiquid  
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Apollo is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should  be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. Apollo may require that Mrs M provides an undertaking to pay 
Apollo any amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must  
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. Apollo will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
Ref: DRN28981007calculations simpler, Ill accept if Apollo totals  all those payments and deducts  that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs M wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept some  investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs M's circumstances and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Apollo Pension & Investment Advisers should pay 
the amount calculated  as set out above.
Apollo Pension  & Investment Advisers should  provide  details of its calculation to Mrs M in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M either to 
accept or reject my decision  by 20 May 2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2898100