K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs Z are unhappy with AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) handling of their subsidence 
claim, under their buildings insurance  policy.
When I mention AXA, Im also referring to any of their appointed representatives.
background 
Mr and Mrs Z made a claim for subsidence damage to their house. AXA investigated  the 
cause and accepted the claim. The damage was found to be caused by clay shrinkage 
related to moisture extraction from nearby vegetation.
AXA appointed a specialist to assess the vegetation  and arrange  for it to be removed.  As 
one of the trees involved was the responsibility of Mr and Mrs Zs neighbour, consent had to 
be given by the neighbour for its removal too. This was given and the implicated trees  and 
hedges were removed.
Once the trees and hedges were  removed, it was found that the boundary  wall at                
Mr and Mrs Zs house was unstable. Because of this, some  tree stumps were left in place to 
prevent the wall collapsing. As the wall was structurally unstable  it needed to be pulled 
down.
Mr and Mrs Z had builders in their house  at the time. AXA asked Mr and Mrs Z to get their 
builders to remove the wall. The wall was removed and Mr and Mrs Z provided  the invoice to 
AXA to settle.  AXA didnt agree that the wall removal  was covered as part of the claim, as 
they felt the wall had been damaged  gradually over time and wear  and tear wasnt  covered 
under the policy.  AXA didnt feel that the damage to the wall was caused by the trees and 
hedges so wasnt part of the subsidence  issue.  
AXA offered  Mr and Mrs Z £150 compensation for the bad advice  given when asking the 
builders to remove the wall. But they declined to reimburse Mr and Mrs Z for the removal  
and rebuilding costs of the wall. AXA said that the wall was unsafe and would have had to be 
removed and rebuilt anyway so the costs incurred would always  have happened.
Mr and Mrs Z didnt  agree  with this and complained to our service. They felt that the cost of 
demolishing and rebuilding the wall should  be covered as part of the claim. 
Our investigator didnt  agree with Mr and Mrs Z. He said that AXA had taken the appropriate 
action during the claim to stabilise the house and remove  the mitigating factors,  the 
vegetation, to ensure  a lasting and effective  repair.  He said that, although the removal  of the 
trees and hedges  had highlighted  the instability of the wall, the wall itself had deteriorated 
over time and wasnt damaged as a direct  cause of the subsidence.  Because of that he felt 
that AXA didnt  need to do anything  more at the house. He did feel that AXA had caused a 
delay during the claim process and recommended an additional £50 should be paid.
AXA accepted this but Mr and Mrs Z didnt so its been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN21033822my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator here. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Zs policy covers them for their subsidence claim to their house,  which  AXA have 
accepted. However,  Mr Z believes that the boundary wall should also be covered as the 
damage to the wall is as a result of the same cause as the damage to the house.  And this is 
covered by their insurance policy. I dont agree.
AXA visited  Mr and Mrs Zs house  whilst the tree stump was still in position, to assess  the 
damage to the wall. Its clear from the report provided and the photos of the wall that it had 
been subject to years of vegetation growth  and had been poorly  maintained. In places the 
wall was only held together by ivy vines, which had prevented it from falling completely. 
Its unfortunate that the front boundary wall had been removed prior to AXAs visit but I 
understand the reasons  for that. And that AXA instructed Mr Z to have  the wall removed. But 
Im satisfied from the photos  Ive seen that the entire boundary wall would have been in the 
same condition and for the same reason. Mr and Mrs Zs house had tall and thick vegetation  
around its perimeter and I think its most likely this would have weakened the wall over time.   
Mr and Mrs Zs policy has a list of general exclusions. One of those exclusions is for gradual  
deterioration/maintenance and doesnt cover any damage caused by wear and tear. Which  
Im more persuaded  has caused the instability of the wall. 
I know that Mr Z is unhappy that AXA advised him to have  the front wall pulled down and 
hed like AXA to reimburse  the removal and rebuilding  costs.  I dont think thats reasonable 
in the circumstances. Once  the tree stumps had been removed from Mr Zs house, which 
had to be done to ensure the repairs for the subsidence claim could be lasting and effective,  
the boundary  wall would always have been unstable. And in order  for Mr and Mrs Z to 
ensure their property was well maintained, the boundary wall would have needed to have 
been replaced. So whilst AXA has acknowledged  it gave Mr Z the incorrect  advice to have 
the wall pulled down  immediately,  Im satisfied that the cost of this and to rebuild the wall 
was Mr and Mrs Zs responsibility. So theyre not out of pocket in this regard.
AXA paid Mr and Mrs Z £150  for the poor advice.  Thats a reasonable amount. Theyve also 
agreed to pay Mr and Mrs Z an additional  £50 as some delays were experienced. As it was 
clear that the wall posed a safety  concern I think AXA should  have visited Mr and Mrs Zs 
house sooner  than it did to assess the damage  and what had caused it. The instability of the 
wall was raised in mid-April  and AXA visited  at the beginning of May. While I appreciate Mr 
and Mrs Zs concerns I think £50 is reasonable for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im telling AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay Mr and Mrs Z £50 compensation for the delay in assessing the wall.
Ref: DRN21033823Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019. 
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2103382