K820x#14complaint
Mr M is complaining that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) wont  cover the full cost of damage to 
his car when  he made a claim on his car insurance  policy. 
background
In August  2017  Mr Ms car was damaged  by a stone hitting the radiator.  So he contacted his 
breakdown recovery  agent who advised the radiator was damaged and would need to be 
replaced. Mr M says the patrolman didnt detect further damage as he says there wasnt  any 
sign of water in the oil. He says that the patrolman recommended that he took the car to a 
local garage (H).  
H replaced the radiator  but it said the damage wasnt covered under his warranty  policy. 
Mr M says H thought he may be able to claim on his car insurance policy.  
Around a week  later, Mr M had difficulty starting the car again so he called his breakdown  
recovery agent again, who advised there was further  damage to the engine. It said this was 
most likely to be caused by the damaged radiator.
Mr M was due to go on holiday the next day for three weeks. So he instructed the patrolman  
to take the car to his local dealership (P). P started  to do the work and Mr M contacted  
Covea to claim for the damage on his car insurance  policy. As the car wasnt at one of its 
approved repairers,  Covea arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. The 
engineer concluded that the failure  of the engine is as a consequence of driving the vehicle 
with a damaged  radiator,  which was previously replaced by [H], at which  time the engine  
damage was not detected.
Covea declined Mr Ms claim  for the engine damage  as it said that it wasnt  as a result of the 
initial incident  the stone  breaking the radiator   but because the car was driven with a 
damaged radiator. It said that Mr M hadnt  used its approved repairer network.  And it 
suggested that it raise  this with H.
Mr M referred this back to H who said that they wouldnt have noticed the engine damage 
because it was behind  metal. They  said that the only way they would have seen the damage  
was if theyd fully stripped  the engine down, which wasnt reasonable to simply replace the 
radiator.
Mr M says that both the breakdown recover agent  and H didnt realise further damage had 
been caused to the engine. So he didnt think its fair that hes losing out as a result. He said 
there wasnt any indication of damage  to the engine,  so he still thinks Covea should cover 
the full loss under the terms  of his insurance  policy.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that the independent engineer  had 
confirmed that the damage to the engine was caused by driving the car with a damaged 
radiator. So he thinks it was down  to a poor initial repair. And he said that this wasnt 
covered under the terms of the policy.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigator. He said that the engineer didnt say that it was down 
to a poor repair, but due to being driven with a damaged radiator. He maintained  that it 
wasnt unreasonable that this wasnt noticed as both H and the breakdown  recovery  agent 
Ref: DRN27690122didnt discover the fault. The investigator still didnt think the complaint should be upheld. So 
Mr M asked  for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
Theres no dispute that the damage to the radiator is covered under the policy  as it was 
caused by accidental damage. But the policy doesnt cover mechanical failure. So, the issue 
I have to decide is whether the damage  to the engine was directly  attributable  to the initial 
incident or due to mechanical failure.  Mr M says that the engine damage  was directly related 
to the stone damaging his radiator. Covea says its not covered under the policy  because  it 
wasnt caused by accidental damage, but due to driving the car with a damaged radiator.
As I said,  theres no dispute that there was an insured event  in the stone  damaging the 
radiator. So, for Covea to not be responsible for the damage to the engine, it has to show 
that there  was a break in the chain of causation  i.e. there was a further act that 
unreasonably resulted  in the damage  to the engine. 
So I think the key issue here is whether there was a negligent act by Mr M, the breakdown  
recovery agent or H that was the cause  of the damage to the engine.   
First of all I think  its clear that the damage  to the engine would have arisen (or at the very 
least be developing) by the time the car had arisen at H. I say this because H replaced  the 
radiator so I dont  think the damage  to the engine would have started after this point.  So I 
think the key issue  in this case is what happened before the car arrived  at H.
Im conscious that Mr M said that he wasnt aware that the radiator had been  damaged  until 
the water  pressure indicator light came on about  a mile from home. He then drove the final 
mile home and called the breakdown recovery agent. 
Mr M has told us that the breakdown recovery agent  didnt find any issues  with the engine.  
He says the patrolman filled the radiator with water  and Mr M then followed the patrolman in 
his car to the garage.  But this is in contrast to the roadside assistance  report which said:
car overheated with customer, found  damaged radiator, advised not to drive,  own 
arrangements
This suggests that the patrolman told Mr M to not drive  the car, but Mr M said that hed make 
his own arrangement to get it to a garage  to be repaired. I also note Mr M signed  a 
declaration on the report  that said:
The [patrolman]  has clearly explained  the details and I accept 
My engine  overheated prior to attendance,  which may have  compromised the head 
gasket or internal  components
The vehicle has sustained damage  prior to attendance
The vehicle is considered not safe to drive
Ref: DRN27690123It seems  to me, based on this, that Mr M has driven  the car despite  being advised not to do 
so. And this is likely  to be what has caused the damage to the engine, rather than a direct 
result of the stone damaging the radiator  i.e. theres been a break  in the chain of 
causation. 
Mr M disputes that this is what  he was told. He maintains  that the patrolman said that he 
couldnt be sure whether  there was further damage to the engine.  He says the patrolman 
said it would  be fine to follow in his car and he says H would confirm that he arrived  in his 
car just ahead of the Patrolman. But I cant ignore  that the recovery  agent  said in the 
document that Mr S said that the car shouldnt be driven and it was.
Mr M maintains that he followed the experts  advice. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I 
dont think Covea has to cover the damage  to the engine. If Mr M disputes  that this is what  
he was actually told by the patrolman,  hell need  to raise this with his breakdown recovery 
agent, as I cant hold Covea responsible for anything the patrolman told him.
I understand that Covea has covered the cost of replacing the radiator as that was covered 
under the policy.  But hell need  to contact Covea separately if it hasnt done so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M accept  or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2769012