K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains Scottish Equitable Plc (trading  as Aegon) gave him incorrect information 
which means he can no longer take his pension as a lump sum.
For simplicity in this decision Ill refer to the business  as Aegon.  
background
In 1991 Mr M started a small TP32 pension  policy  with Aegon, in its Deposit Administration 
2 fund (a type of with profits fund). It had reserved  funds  which  gave him a guaranteed 
minimum pension (GMP) in line with his previous  occupational scheme.  His nominated  
retirement date was his 65th birthday in July 2017.  Aegon has provided  updates  to Mr M over 
the years. Six months before  his nominated retirement date Aegon sent Mr M an illustration 
showing his policy was valued at just under £15,500 and his GMP would entitle him to a 
pension of just over £446 per year. Mr M was told his fund wasnt  sufficient to meet the cost 
of the GMP to enable  him to take it under trivial commutation rules,  so it would remain  
invested until state pension age or until the fund value is sufficient to secure the GMP. 
Following his funds  policy terms, at Mr Ms nominated retirement date Aegon moved his 
pension savings to a cash fund, in advance  of him taking his benefits. Aegon  wrote to Mr M 
in October 2017  to say his fund value  was now just over £15,700. He could either take the 
GMP of £446 per year, or a trivial commutation  lump  sum of around £12,800 net was now 
available from the reserved funds, as their value was now sufficient to meet  the GMP. Mr M 
took no action  at that time.  
Almost a year later in September 2018  Aegon wrote to Mr M again to say his fund value was 
now just over £15,600 but the cost of providing  the GMP had increased to just over £17,800. 
Mr M queried why his pension fund had fallen in value when he understood it should be 
growing by 3%. In response Aegon explained  the switch into cash the year before. And the 
reduced value  meant the option of taking the whole  fund under the trivial commutation  rules 
was no longer open to him.
Mr M sought advice from Pensionwise who told him he should be able to take a small 
pension fund as a lump sum, so he went back to Aegon which explained while  he could have  
done so in 2017 he couldnt now. Mr M is concerned that his deteriorating health  means  hes 
unlikely to live the 35 years he thinks itll take to exhaust his fund if he takes his benefits  as 
an annuity. So he complained to this service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and felt it should  be upheld.  She thought 
Aegon should have told Mr M his fund would  automatically be moved to cash  at his 
nominated retirement  date, not relied  on the terms of a policy  he had taken  out so long ago. 
Even if Mr M didnt have the option for his funds to remain invested in the Deposit 
Administration 2 fund after his nominated  retirement date,  she thought hed have been  
better informed in 2017 when the opportunity to take his funds as a lump sum was available 
to him. So she thought  Aegon should pay Mr M some compensation to reflect  the 
inconvenience hed experienced. 
Mr M was confused by the outcome. Now hes in a cash  fund hes trapped  in a situation 
where his fund value  can never grow sufficiently to meet his GMP, so he still wanted  to take 
his fund in full.
Ref: DRN26748402And Aegon thought paying compensation was unfair as it hadnt  done anything wrong. The 
move to cash is part of its standard policy terms, and Mr M had benefitted from a terminal 
bonus when he left the Deposit Administration 2 fund, which might have been lost at any 
time if hed been  able (contrary to the policy terms) to remain in it. And as its agents  arent  
permitted to give advice  it couldnt have discussed anything  with Mr M,
which is why theyd  suggested he obtain  financial advice. 
As agreement couldnt be reached its been passed to me to make a decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered all the available  evidence  
and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, Im going to partly uphold  the complaint and ask Aegon to pay some 
compensation to Mr M. Ill explain why.
Mr M was previously  in an occupational pension scheme, and the GMP reflects  part of the 
benefits hed have received under that scheme.  The guarantee means that at state pension 
age hell receive  that amount (by way of an annuity) regardless of how his fund performs. 
But there are restrictions about  taking  funds out as a lump sum. 
Before his retirement date Aegon explained to Mr M his pension  fund needed  to exceed the 
amount required  to support his GMP, and until he took his benefits it would remain  invested. 
So its likely Mr M assumed  the longer he left his savings to grow before taking his benefits 
the better.  And because  hed been told his pension  would remain  invested he wasnt 
expecting them to be imminently  transferred into a cash fund. I think thats one possible 
explanation of why he took no action in 2017, which appears to have been the last time he 
would have been able to take a lump sum under the trivial commutation rules. 
Although it might be part of the fund terms and conditions, I dont expect Mr M to have been 
aware his pension savings would be transferred to a cash  fund in readiness  for his 
retirement, as that would presume he had documents sent to him many years earlier right in 
front of him. This information wasnt mentioned in the letters  Aegon  sent him, although  its 
not a specific  requirement to do so. Aegon points out cash is the safest option for consumers  
approaching retirement  as invested  funds can go up and down, and he benefited from a 
terminal bonus, which could have been  lost at any time, which  is true. I also appreciate it has 
to be careful not to give advice, but I dont  think this prevented it giving Mr M factual 
information. 
Its also a relevant factor here that the charges  on the cash  fund exceeded its returns, so the 
switch didnt entirely prevent the value  of his investment going  down as Aegon suggests.  
Thats information Mr M could have found  out, had he been  put on notice that the switch  was 
taking place.
Its not certain whether hed have done  anything differently, given remaining invested wasnt  
actually possible past his nominated retirement  date. But he might  have decided to take his 
benefits in 2017 if hed realised there  was less likelihood  of his savings growing significantly 
after theyd been  moved into a cash fund.
Ref: DRN26748403So while Aegon might have  only been  following the terms  of the policy,  I think  they could 
have done more to inform  Mr M of his admittedly limited options  limited  because Aegon  
has confirmed to us that there were no other funds the policy  allowed Mr M to switch into. 
And letting  him think his pension would remain invested when actually it was about to be 
moved into cash meant he didnt have  the full picture on which to make such  an important 
decision. 
Im sorry  to hear about  Mr Ms ill health, and I understand  his concern about whether hell 
live long enough for his GMP to exhaust his pension savings, (although  he might not be 
taking into account  that its index linked). But I have to bear in mind that the funds arent  
sufficient to meet the cost of providing  the GMP now  so both under legislation  and the 
terms of his policy it wouldnt  be fair to direct  Aegon to enable  Mr M to take his benefits as a 
lump sum. This was always a possible outcome of Mr M choosing to remain invested, 
whether he understood he was in the cash fund or the with profits fund (because the amount 
of terminal bonus  can fluctuate).  But I do think it should pay Mr M £200  to reflect the added  
trouble and upset  this situation has caused  him because Aegon didnt give him all the 
information it could  have provided.  
Pension Wise appears to have erroneously told Mr M he should be able to take his benefits 
as a lump sum. But they based this only on what Mr M told them,  which wouldnt have 
included the move into cash,  and they may not have  understood the implications of his GMP. 
But I cant hold Aegon responsible for information  provided by a third party.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. Scottish  Equitable Plc T/A Aegon  should pay Mr M £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2674840