K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complains Acromas  Insurance Company Limited  didnt provide him with a 
courtesy car, which he says it should have done as his  own car was  undriveable  
following a breakdown.
background
Mr T has a roadside assistance  policy with a company Ill refer to as C throughout 
this decision. Part of that policy, relating to the provision of a courtesy car if his 
vehicle cant  be repaired  at the roadside, is underwritten by Acromas.
Mr T had a number of problems with his vehicle  over a short  period of  time and 
called C for roadside assistance each time.  This eventually gave rise to  Mr T  making  
various complaints to C regarding the service he received. The complaint being  
considered here relates to what  happened  after he made his final call to C to  report a 
fault with his car.
Mr T says a patrol  engineer attended at his home, and then followed behind as Mr T 
drove his car to a local garage. Whilst there, Mr T says the patrol engineer spoke to 
the garage,  who advised Mr Ts car wasnt  driveable. C, on the other hand, say their  
patrolman didnt  attend on Mr T at all following this call, instead dealing with  the 
matter over the phone only.
Mr T later complained to C that he wasnt  offered a replacement car under  the 
Onward Travel (Stay Mobile) part of his policy, after  he (and the patrol)  were 
advised that his car was undriveable. He said,  because of this,  he was unable  to 
attend a family wedding  and asked for £800  compensation. C responded  and said a 
patrol didnt attend on that final occasion, and Mr Ts vehicle was  driveable, so he 
wasnt eligible for this benefit.
Unhappy with this, Mr T brought his complaint to us. However, our investigator 
agreed with C - there was no clear  evidence  Cs patrol attended, or Mr Ts car was 
undriveable, or Mr T had asked for a replacement car at  the time in  question. For 
these reasons,  Mr T wouldnt have been entitled to the replacement  car, and 
Acromas hadnt done anything wrong. Unhappy with this, Mr T asked  an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold Mr 
Ts complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN21788982Mr Ts initial complaint  to us was about  failings in the service hed  received  from C  
including rude patrolmen, and incorrect  fault diagnosis. Our investigator advised Mr 
T these  werent complaints we could consider  as they werent  within our jurisdiction.  
Mr T accepted this. However,  Mr T said he wanted us to consider one part of his 
complaint he believed  was within our jurisdiction  he  said he  wasnt provided with a 
replacement car after his own car was deemed  undriveable after a breakdown. Our 
investigator concluded  correctly  this was something we  could look at.
The relevant part of Mr Ts policy  that provides  the replacement car option is  called 
Onward Travel (Stay Mobile), which  is underwritten by Acromas.  So, I need to 
begin by considering what this part of Mr Ts policy says. The relevant  parts  state the 
following:
[The benefit]is available if your vehicle is immobilised following a 
breakdown which [C] has attendedand  where  [C] cannot arrange a local 
prompt repair
memberscan choose from one of the following;  a replacement car, or 
overnight accommodation or public transport
The policy also says what  isnt covered:
[The benefit]...cannot be claimed retrospectively and  must be requested at 
the same time as the request  for breakdown  assistance  is made or such  
assistance is given
There was initially confusion about  which breakdown Mr T was complaining  about. 
However, it soon became  clear  Mr T was complaining about  the last in  a series of  
breakdowns between  August and September 2018. Mr T says he  called C  to advise  
there was a fault with his car. He says a patrol attended and accompanied him 
(driving behind) to his local garage. He says the patrol spoke with a mechanic there  
and was told Mr Ts car was undriveable. C, on the other hand, say no  patrol visited  
Mr T after he contacted  them on this occasion.  Instead, they say a patrol  spoke to Mr 
T on the phone and, as the fault related  to one raised (and attended on) a week 
prior, advised Mr T he was OK to drive his car to his  local garage.
Where theres a different account  of events, such as here,  I need to look at  the 
evidence to decide what I think is most likely to have happened on the balance of 
probabilities. And having done so, Im more persuaded by the evidence  C has 
provided. Ill explain why.
We asked Mr T to provide evidence  a patrol  had accompanied him to  his garage, 
where he was told his car was undriveable  because if Mr T could  show this 
happened, his policy says hed likely  have been  entitled to a replacement car. Mr T 
approached the garage  to try and get this. The garage provided a copy invoice,  
annotated (handwritten) as follows:
Ref: DRN21788983Car driven in by customer. [C] patrol  man told us the vehicle is not driveable  
until  work carried out
However, this invoice  related to work  carried out six weeks before the last callout  
and was dated three  days before a patrol attended a callout at  that time. After  our 
investigator raised  the date inconsistencies, Mr T provided a further annotated 
garage invoice, which said:
I can confirm  that [Mr T] has had a lot of problems with [C]They have 
advised that work needs to be carried out as the car was not driveable[Mr 
T] came into the garage with the [C] patrol man..
This invoice was dated two days  after the last callout request, and supports Mr Ts 
account that his car was driven to his local garage shortly after  he made his last 
callout request. 
Against that, Ive looked at what C has said about the last callout request. They  
havent been able to provide  a phone recording  of the call Mr T made on the day so I 
cant hear what was discussed.  Instead, Ive seen copies  of Cs system notes 
relating to their dealings with Mr T at this time,  and breakdown  report notes  
completed by patrol staff after they attended Mr Ts various  callout  requests between 
August and September  2018.
There isnt a breakdown report for the last of Mr Ts callouts in this period   but 
there are reports for the previous  callouts, suggesting there wasnt a patrol 
attendance on that last date. And looking at the system  notes for the last callout  
request, the notes  say as follows:
spoke to [member], eml light on, previously attended last week  for same fault 
advised safe to drive and to book  in for repair 
These reports/notes  provide a record  of what happened, in real-time. They show  
what the patrol did on any given callout, and what Cs agents discussed  with Mr T on 
the phone. These compare with the annotated invoices from the garage, written six 
months after the events in question. Whilst Im in no way questioning the honesty  of 
the garage  staff who it appears provided these,  I must form a view based on what I 
think is the most compelling evidence. And I think real-time  records, taken from Cs 
system, are more likely to present an accurate  picture of what happened on  the last 
September callout. So, based on an analysis of this available evidence, I dont think 
a patrol attended on Mr T on the last callout. 
I also dont think  Mr Ts car was immobilised. Its clear Mr T was able to  transport 
his car to his local garage within days  of the last callout   as evidenced  by the 
second invoice  he provided, mentioned  above. Taken together  it follows,  according 
to the policy, Mr T wouldnt  have been entitled  to a replacement car  a patrol  didnt 
attend, and his car wasnt immobilised or undriveable.  
Ref: DRN21788984That being the case, I dont think Acromas  has done anything  wrong here, and I 
wont be asking it to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons outlined above,  I dont  uphold  Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2178898