K820x#14complaint
Ms B took out a mortgage in 1997  with Bank  of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax. She says 
that during this application, a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy was mis-sold to her 
because it was never discussed and she didnt agree to it. 
Ms B says she was unaware she even had such a policy.
background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Ms B its unlikely to be 
upheld. She disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed  for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Ms Bs central point of complaint is that she didnt  know she had PPI and she hadnt agreed 
to buy a policy like this. However, I dont think Ms B is correct  about this. 
This is because I can see she sent Halifax a handwritten and signed  letter  dated 
25 February 1999, saying she wanted to cancel her PPI cover. In that letter  she wrote:  
Please  could you cancel  my mortgage  payment protection (£22.77  premium  monthly) as I 
have organised a cheaper but more  beneficial policy directly with [another  company]
In my view, this shows beyond any doubt  that Ms B did actually know  she had PPI and that 
she had originally asked  Halifax  to set up such a policy  for her in 1997. I accept she may 
have forgotten  about this now, but I think Halifax properly obtained her consent.
Halifax accepts it recommended this cover  to Ms B so it had a duty to make sure it was 
suitable for her situation. Overall, I think it was.
This is because Ms B appears to have been  eligible for the cover  and not caught  by any of 
the main exclusions  we sometimes see in these policies. The price  seems to me to be 
comparable with similar policies from around  that time and Ive seen nothing that suggests 
it wasnt affordable for her. 
Ms B then said she didnt  need the cover. Ive thought very carefully  about her job and the 
benefits Ms B told us about.  But I dont think they made the PPI unsuitable. The mortgage 
was secured against Ms Bs home  and so the consequences of her not being able to keep 
up payments could have been serious.  In the event of a successful claim, the cover she 
bought was payable for up to 12 months  and this wouldve been in addition to any other 
means she already  had in place at the time. 
So although  I cant say why Ms B decided to buy this policy, I dont think Halifax  
recommending it to her was unreasonable. I think the policy was suitable.
Ref: DRN26899182 
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I cant 
confirm if she was told everything she ought to have been, after some 22 years have 
passed. But I can see the costs of the cover were  quoted on her cancellation request, so 
she was obviously well aware of how much she was paying and I think she had enough 
information on which to make an informed decision.
This policy wasnt mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint. And I dont direct Bank of Scotland  Plc to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2689918