K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building  Society  didnt refund transactions after he made a 
claim under the direct debit guarantee. 
background
In April 2018 Mr T got in touch with Nationwide and raised a direct debit indemnity claim in 
relation to several direct debits that had debited his current  account  between June and 
August 2008.  The direct  debit amounts varied and the total figure taken was around 
£30,000. Mr T explained that hes suffered  with mental health  issues which delayed him 
raising a direct debit  claim. 
Nationwide didnt agree  to refund the payments. Mr T said that under the terms of the direct  
debit guarantee,  he was entitled to an immediate refund whilst Nationwide  investigated 
whether the payments were  genuine. If the investigation  found no error was made 
Nationwide could then re-debit the funds  from Mr Ts account. 
Nationwide responded and said that it couldnt process the claim due to the amount of time 
that had passed and the lack of information  available. Nationwide  later investigated  Mr Ts 
claim further and got information from a third party bank concerning  the account the direct 
debits were paid to. The third party bank said the payments made from Mr Ts account  in 
2008 were genuine and paid into his account  with it. Nationwide declined  Mr Ts direct debit 
claim. 
Mr T referred his complaint to our service  and an investigator looked  at what  had happened. 
He said that Nationwide had fairly declined the direct debit claim  and didnt ask it to take any 
further action. In response, Mr T said no one had provided evidence of the direct  debit 
instruction used to make  the payments and that he still doesnt think they are genuine. In 
addition, Mr T says Nationwide  failed to follow the right process as set out in the direct debit 
guarantee. Mr T asked  to appeal so his complaint has been  passed to me to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at all the available evidence, I think there are two key issues here. The first is 
whether Nationwide was right to reject Mr Ts direct  debit  indemnity claim and the second  is 
whether Nationwide followed the correct  process.  Ill look at each in turn. 
Mr T says he doesnt recognise the direct debit payments that left his account  between June 
and August 2008 which is why hes asked Nationwide to refund them. Nationwide  has 
provided evidence  that its contacted the third party bank  that claimed the direct debits. The 
third party bank has confirmed that the funds were paid into an account Mr T held with it at 
the time.  In addition,  the third party  bank  has provided evidence that it transferred £25,000 
back to Mr Ts account with Nationwide on 22 July 2009. 
Mr Ts direct debit  refund claim  was made  on the basis  that he didnt recognise the 
transactions. As Nationwide has established  the payments were  made to an account Mr T 
Ref: DRN29616922held with a third party bank (which later paid £25,000 back into his Nationwide  account) I 
havent found it made a mistake when it declined  his claim. 
I appreciate Mr T says that no one has given him any evidence of the direct debit mandate  
or instruction used  to claim the payments.  But Nationwide  has advised that due to the 
passage of time, the information now available is limited. It says Mr T signed up for his 
account with the third party bank online which is why theres no paper mandate.  I dont know 
whether thats  the case but businesses  arent  obliged to keep information indefinitely. Im 
satisfied from what Ive seen that there was a direct  debit instruction in place to pay an 
account Mr T held with a third party bank. 
Mr Ts asked  why the amounts taken varied. Thats because businesses claiming a direct 
debit can vary the amount taken and the level of payment doesnt remain  the same. 
Mr T also complains  that Nationwide didnt immediately refund the disputed direct debit 
payments when he raised his concerns in April 2019. I agree  that Nationwide didnt refund 
the disputed payments in line with the information  contained within the direct debit 
guarantee. But we arent  the regulator  and we dont fine or punish  businesses if a mistake  is 
made. In this case, whilst  I agree that Nationwide didnt refund  the disputed  transactions  
after Mr T raised his concerns I havent  found  any evidence  that failing to do so had a 
negative impact. Ultimately, Nationwide  would have re-debited the funds from Mr T once it 
found the transactions were genuine.  Im sorry to disappoint  Mr T but I dont think  
Nationwide treated him unfairly when it didnt  initially refund the disputed direct debits. 
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im satisfied that Nationwide fairly declined  Mr Ts direct  
debit indemnity claim. And I havent found  that the failure to refund the disputed direct debits 
led to a loss for Mr T. I think  Nationwide dealt with Mr Ts case  fairly  so Im not telling it to 
take any further action to resolve this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2961692