K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco) cancelled her credit card 
without giving her proper warning, and that this caused her embarrassment when she tried 
to pay for fuel at a service  station. She also says it ruined a weekend away  she had planned 
with her partner. 
background
On the 3 September 2018 Tesco received  a notification  from MasterCard  that due to a 
breach of security  with a third party retailer Miss Ds credit card details may have been  
compromised. As a result Tesco say they sent Miss D a text message that day to confirm 
her card had been cancelled and that she would receive a new card within 10 working days. 
Miss D accepts that she received that message but did not read it.
Tesco said the new card was issued on the 7 September, but Miss D says it wasnt  delivered  
to her until the 15 September. On the 14 September Miss D went away for a weekend  break  
taking with her the Tesco  credit  card which was her only means of paying  for items and 
services. When  she tried to pay for fuel her card was declined  which  caused her 
embarrassment. When Miss D rang Tesco to enquire, they arranged  to send a Money 
Transfer (MT) of £300 to her sons account which was received the following day. 
Fortunately her son was able to pay for the fuel but Miss D had little spending money 
available until the following day, which caused  her problems  later that night.  Miss D would 
like Tesco to reimburse her for the cost her travel expenses and holiday which came to 
approximately £500.
Tesco have  accepted that the text message they sent could have been clearer  in explaining 
how long the current card would remain valid for. And for that they have offered Miss D £50 
in compensation.  But they didnt think they had done anything else wrong and had acted 
fairly and reasonably when the issue was brought to their attention. They said they had 
made the MT much  quicker than usual and waived  the fees and interest for doing so.
 
Miss D was unhappy with Tescos response and so an investigator from this service  looked 
into the complaint.  He felt that Tesco couldve done  more in explaining when the old card 
would be out of use, and by not doing  so, it had caused distress,  inconvenience and 
embarrassment to Miss D when she tried to pay for her fuel and later when she had little 
money for an evening  meal or to go out. He considered that the offer of £50 was too low 
given the impact upon Miss D and recommended Tesco increase it to £100. Miss D agreed 
with the investigators  view but Tesco  didnt  and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat our investigators 
background summary since  it is accurate  and full. My own background summary  has been 
necessarily brief to avoid repetition. 
The issue  in this complaint revolves  around the wording of the text message which read;
We're protecting your Tesco Bank Credit Card from potential fraud by sending  you a new 
card. Your  new card will arrive within 10 days.  You can continue to use your existing card, 
and manage your account online, however please  be aware that you will not be able to 
Ref: DRN20995632manage your account using mobile  banking over the next 36 hours. If something on your 
account doesn't look right please get in touch. 
From that, Tesco argue  that Miss D would know that she was expected  to receive  a new 
card within 10 days. Although she hadnt  read the message, had she done  so she would  
have known that it was due to arrive  by the 13 September.  Tesco believe that it would have  
been reasonable therefore for her to make  contact with them when it hadnt  arrived. But she 
was also using the card on the 13 September without problem which  highlights  the 
uncertainty in the text message even if she had in fact read it.
I do think Tesco acted very reasonably and fairly  once they became aware of the problems 
facing Miss D, and so I do agree that it would not be fair to expect them  to compensate  
Miss D in the sum she has asked. But I also agree with our investigator that the text 
message was not clear. So even if she had read it the likelihood  would have been that she 
would have continued to use her card until her new card had arrived.  As her card had not in 
fact arrived in her hands by the time she left on her break, it was that which  led to Miss D 
facing the difficulties she did on the 14 September. 
There are two aspects to Miss Ds inconvenience  and distress.  First there  was the difficulty  
in paying for her fuel. If she had not been  with her son she might well have been  stranded. 
Secondly there was the first night  of her break, when she had insufficient  funds to obtain a 
family meal, and the anxiety of not knowing that the MT funds had reached her sons  
account. To my mind that warrants a compensatory payment beyond £50, and I think  £100  is 
reasonable and fair.
my final decision
Tesco has already made  an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint but I think  this offer too 
low in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC pays 
Miss D £100 in total.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2099563