K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Miss P are unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance Limited has settled a claim on 
his motor insurance policy. 
background
Mr C is the policyholder and Miss P is a named  driver. After an accident involving their car 
driven by Miss P a third party submitted a claim. They say there wasnt any damage to their 
car, the accident  was staged and the third partys  claim is exaggerated. Aviva  investigated 
matters and initially tried to settle the claim on a 50/50 split liability basis. But when that 
wasnt possible it held Miss P fully liable.  Mr C and Miss P are unhappy  about  this. They 
want the fraudulent  claim fought and their no claims back.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary she said Aviva was 
entitled under the terms of the policy to defend or settle any claim. It had investigated what 
had happened  and all the evidence. Its decision to accept liability was fair and reasonable. 
As there was a collision Aviva had to consider the third partys personal  injury claim including  
a medical report.  Aviva  couldnt dispute  the injury claim. It investigated and settled  the claim 
fairly and she cannot ask it to do anything more or differently.
Mr C and Miss P remain unhappy and have asked for an ombudsman  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P in particular has very strong views  about what  happened in the incident and says the 
other party was to blame and it was staged. She has also provided evidence  and 
submissions which she says support her view. But its not our role to decide  whos  at fault for 
an accident. That is something only a court can consider. We can only look into whether 
Aviva has conducted a reasonable investigation into a claim, when making  its own decision 
on liability.
Under the terms of the policy Aviva is entitled  to defend and settle  a claim as it sees  fit. It 
also doesnt need either Mr Cs or Miss Ps approval of any decision to admit liability, settle a 
claim or make a payment to a third party. Aviva also isnt obliged to take a case  to court  
even if the policy holder  or named driver, like Miss P here, would like it to so. Its entitled  to 
consider the economics of proceeding to defend  the case and the potential  costs and risks of 
proceeding to court.
Overall I think  Aviva  investigated matters reasonably. It considered  the vehicles damage 
and what each party said. There werent  any independent witnesses or CCTV. It instructed 
an engineer and took account of what the engineer said.  It also took legal advice from 
solicitors both on liability and the extent of the third partys  claim including the personal injury 
element. Aviva also tried unsuccessfully  to settle the claim on a 50/50  spilt liability  basis.  But 
when that wasnt  possible it followed the legal advice to settle the claim on a full liability  
basis.
Mr C and Miss P may disagree with Avivas  interpretation of the evidence and decision to 
settle the claim on a full liability basis  but I dont think its failed to comply with the policy  
Ref: DRN22366202terms or exercised its discretion unfairly or unreasonably when deciding  to settle the case  as 
its done. 
I understand Miss Ps frustration. But taking everything  into account I dont think  Aviva has 
done anything  wrong. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require it to do anything 
more or differently  including taking legal action or restoring their no claims discount.
And I dont  see a compelling  reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2236620