K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs H says Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think  Nationwide made it clear that Mrs H didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. I say this because 
Ive been given a copy of the credit card application  form that was completed at the time and 
this includes a section  about PPI. In this section  there are boxes to tick to accept or decline 
to take out the cover.  On Mrs Hs form I can see that the yes box to accept the PPI has 
been ticked and Mrs H has signed  the form which suggests she agreed  with everything that 
was entered.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her.
Its possible  the information Nationwide gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would  have been  useful  
for her if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H. 
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because  Nationwide  didnt tell 
Mrs H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said - including  what she has said about  not 
needing the policy as she would receive  sick pay. But this policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay she would receive,  and potentially longer than her full pay. And it 
would also have paid out if she was to have lost her job. As it appears  Mrs H didnt have any 
other way of meeting her repayments if she was out of work, I think  this policy could have  
provided her with a useful  benefit.  So these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN21389882My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019. 
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2138988