K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly applied  an early  repayment 
charge (ERC) when  they repaid their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs A had a mortgage with Barclays. In 2014, they took a fixed interest  rate product. 
An ERC applied  if the mortgage was repaid before 1 April 2019. 
In 2015, Mr and Mrs A took a further advance  with Barclays. In 2018,  they took a new fixed  
rate product  for the further advance. An ERC applied if the mortgage was repaid  before 1 
February 2020. 
Mr and Mrs A say they were forced to transfer  their mortgage and take new borrowing with 
Barclays to a new property to avoid the ERC.  But Barclays wouldnt lend them  the amount 
they wanted and then declined their application.  So Mr and Mrs A repaid the Barclays  
mortgage incurring  an ERC on both the mortgage  and further advance.
Mr and Mrs A think the ERC  is unfair for a number of reasons, including:
There were  only a few months left of the fixed rate on the mortgage. The ERC  was more 
than the remaining payments due on the fixed rate of the main mortgage.
A flat percentage of 3% over the fixed rate term wasnt fair.
Barclays misinformed them about  the suitability of the property they wanted to buy and 
later wouldnt  tell them why it was unsuitable. And they are unhappy  with the way that 
Barclays dealt with their applications. 
Mr and Mrs A also say that the final repayment  fee of £275 is unfair. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ERCs
ERCs arent a fine or a penalty as Mr and Mrs A have suggested. Rather they are a term of 
the contract  that allows a mortgage  lender to recoup its costs if a mortgage is repaid before 
a certain date. They are a standard feature of many fixed rate mortgages  and are allowed 
under the relevant rules. That doesnt mean a lender can apply an ERC in any 
circumstances or charge  any amount  it wants.  There are rules  in place that set out what  
information must be given  to a borrower  about  an ERC and that it must reflect a reasonable 
estimate of the cost to the lender  of the mortgage  being repaid early. 
Mr and Mrs A dont  dispute that when they entered into the fixed  rates on both the main 
mortgage and the further advance they accepted all of the terms of the mortgage. That 
included the ERCs. Im satisfied that the ERCs, the dates when they would apply and the 
Ref: DRN23180032amounts that would be charged were set out clearly,  prominently and unambiguously in the 
paperwork.
The relevant  rules say that the ERC must, at the time the mortgage was taken out, be a 
reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to the lender of the mortgage being repaid early.  That is 
something I must take into account in deciding  what I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
the individual circumstances of this complaint. There is no set formula for lenders to set an 
ERC. And it is for the lender to demonstrate  to me the reasonableness  of the ERC it has 
charged.
I understand why Mr and Mrs A consider that Barclays loss would be limited to the 
remaining payments  on the fixed rate. But because of the way that mortgages are funded, 
many lenders costs could go further  than that and take into account  a number of different 
factors. 
Its also important to note that it is only for the lender to show that the ERC was a pre-
estimate of its losses at the time the mortgage was arranged.  This is to give the borrower 
certainty of the maximum amount they could pay. The lenders actual losses could be more  
or less than the ERC depending on the circumstances. But it doesnt  necessarily  follow that 
the ERC  is unfair  or that the lender isnt entitled to apply the ERC set out mortgage  offer that 
the borrower agreed to be bound by.
There is nothing to prevent a lender  applying  a fixed percentage ERC across  the fixed rate 
term  as long as it can show that is a reasonable way of pre-estimating the cost to it of the 
mortgage being repaid  early.
Barclays has provided a detailed response  setting  out its methodology for the calculation of 
ERCs on the fixed rates for both the mortgage  and further advance. Ive accepted this 
information in confidence as Im satisfied this information is commercially  sensitive. Under 
our rules  Im allowed to accept information on this basis.  Im afraid it limits how much  detail I 
can go into in this decision. But Mr and Mrs A can be assured  that I have very carefully 
checked and thought  about all of the information  that Barclays has provided.
Barclays says it calculated the ERC across mortgages of the same type, rather  than Mr and 
Mrs As individual mortgage. This is permitted under the rules.  It has shown that it takes into 
account a number of factors when calculating its ERC, including  the cost of unwinding the 
agreement it entered  into to raise the funds  for the mortgage and recouping  the costs it 
incurs in setting up and administering the mortgage.  I consider these are reasonable costs 
for a lender  to recover under an ERC.
Barclays goes on to show that it carried out analysis, including  using historical data and 
other information to predict what might happen  over the fixed rate period, to estimate what  
its losses could be. Im satisfied this is a reasonable way to estimate the ERCs and that a flat 
3% over the fixed term is a reasonable figure  based on the information  it has provided. 
Looking at everything that happened and as Mr and Mrs A repaid the mortgage  and the 
further advance  before the end of the tie-in periods, I dont consider Barclays acted unfairly  
in applying the ERCs in the circumstances  of this case in line with the agreements that Mr 
and Mrs A had entered into.
final repayment fee
Ref: DRN23180033Mr and Mrs A say they are also unhappy about  the final repayment fee or mortgage exit fee 
of £275 applied by Barclays when the mortgage was repaid. This fee is to reflect  the 
administrative costs Barclays will incur when a mortgage is repaid. That isnt limited to the 
cost of a telegraphic transfer as suggested  by Mr and Mrs A. I am satisfied Barclays  will 
have other  costs.
The Financial Services Authority (now  the Financial Conduct Authority) previously 
considered the fairness of mortgage  exit fees. Its position was that it was fair to a charge a 
mortgage exit fee as long as it hadnt  been  varied since the mortgage  contract  was taken 
out. 
I can see that the original  offer for the main  mortgage from 2011  sets out that a final 
repayment charge  of £275 is payable on repayment of the mortgage.  As that amount hasnt 
changed  and Mr and Mrs A accepted that fee when they entered into the mortgage  I 
think it has been applied  fairly.
application
We dont have any evidence that Mr and Mrs A had a formal application considered by 
Barclays where it told them they couldnt  borrow as much  as they wanted. As the 
investigator said, it wouldnt be unusual  for a lender  to give an informal  indication  of how 
much someone could borrow. 
Mr and Mrs As application was later declined because  the property they wanted to buy 
wasnt acceptable to Barclays. It instructed an independent suitably qualified  surveyor  to 
produce a valuation report on the property.  The report  states  that the property has an 
unacceptable type of construction. Barclays therefore declined the application.
It was reasonable  for Barclays to rely on a report from a suitably qualified  surveyor  when 
making a decision  about whether to lend against a certain property. So I dont consider it 
was unfair  for Barclays to decline the application  for that reason. I understand that Mr and 
Mrs A were  keen to move and decided to go ahead with a different lender. But that doesnt  
mean that Barclays was obliged  to accept the property  as an exception  to its usual rules or 
that it has acted unfairly. Nor does it mean that it would be required to waive should waive  or 
reduce the ERC.
Barclay has offered £50 to reflect the poor service  it provided. It is for Mr and Mrs A to 
decide if they wish to accept that offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs A should contact Barclays 
if they wish to accept  its offer of £50  if it hasnt  been paid already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2318003