K820x#14complaint
Mr L complained that he was mis-sold  a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy, with a 
car loan,  by Decidebloom  Limited, trading as Stoneacre (Decidebloom).
background
Ive attached my provisional decision from January 2019, which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I didnt propose to uphold  Mr Ls 
complaint. I invited Decidebloom  and Mr L to send  in any further  comments or evidence they 
wanted me to consider by 1 March 2019,  before I reached a final decision.  Decidebloom  said 
it didnt have anything  further to add. Mr L didnt send in a response.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither Decidebloom nor Mr L 
provided further evidence or arguments for consideration, Ive no reason to change  the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. So I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29232702COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr L complained  that he was mis-sold  a payment  protection insurance  (PPI)  policy, with a car loan, by 
Decidebloom Limited, trading as Stoneacre (Decidebloom).
background
Mr L bought the PPI policy  in September 2005 with a car loan. Decidebloom  said that the sale took 
place during  a meeting  and that it didnt advise  Mr L to take out the policy. Mr L couldnt remember  
much about the sale, but said he wasnt aware  PPI had been  added to the loan. 
The policy provided  life and critical illness cover for Mr L for the five-year term of the loan, at a 
monthly cost of £14.17. So it wouldve  paid off the balance owing on the loan if Mr L had suffered a 
specified illness or had passed away. 
Our adjudicator didnt think there was enough evidence  to say that Decidebloom  had mis-sold  the 
policy. So she didnt  uphold the complaint. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls case.
Im not proposing to uphold  Mr Ls complaint.  Ill explain why.
Decidebloom sent us copies of its sales documents, including the demands and needs statement, 
various checklists and the loan agreement. I can see from the agreement that Mr L had to tick a box 
and sign (separately from his signature for the loan)  to say that he wanted  the PPI. He also signed  
other documents  a demands and needs form and a finance and insurance acknowledgement  form 
- to confirm  this.
As the sale took place during a meeting,  I cant know how the salesperson explained  the PPI. But Mr 
L had to sign more  than once to confirm that he wanted the cover.  So overall I think  he was aware  of 
the PPI and was given a choice about  taking  it  and decided to do so. I think he probably just doesnt 
remember doing  so as it was so long ago. 
The paperwork from the time of the sale states that Decidebloom  didnt recommend  that Mr L took the 
PPI. And Ive seen no evidence to contradict that. So Decidebloom didnt have to make sure that the 
cover was suitable  for Mr L. But it had to give Mr L enough  information for him to decide if the policy 
was right for him. 
The monthly  cost of the policy (and the total cost over the term of the loan) was clearly shown on the 
finance and insurance acknowledgement form, along with the level of cover Mr L took out  that is, 
life and critical  illness cover.  The monthly cost was also shown on the loan agreement  in the section 
that Mr L had to sign. 
The demands  and needs statement also shows life and critical illness cover being taken. The policy 
summary seems  to have  been part of the sales documentation  that Mr L signed  to say he received, 
although I cant be certain whether he had an opportunity to read it during the meeting. I cant  know 
whether the salesperson clearly explained the things not covered, but I cant  see that Mr L would  have 
been affected  by any of these. There were different levels of cover available, so I think its likely that 
there was some discussion of the PPI to allow Mr L to decide  what cover he wanted.  As Ive said I 
cant know how the salesperson explained  the policy. But as it provided life and critical illness  cover I 
think Mr L could reasonably have understood the main points. 
Ref: DRN29232703I dont have much information about Mr Ls circumstances   for example any savings  and insurances 
he may have  had - at the point of sale, although I can see from the paperwork that Decidebloom sent 
in that Mr L was married with dependants at the time. I will consider any evidence  that Mr L may send 
us in response to this provisional decision, but at this point I think  he could reasonably  have wanted to 
make sure that the asset he was buying   that is, the car  was protected in the event of his death or 
a serious illness. 
Overall, I cant  be certain that Decidebloom fully explained the details  of the policy. But even if it had, I 
dont currently think that it would have affected Mr Ls decision to take the PPI. This means Mr L is not 
worse off. So theres nothing Decidebloom needs to do to put things right.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not proposing  to uphold  Mr Ls complaint.  
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2923270