K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC) put a block on their account. 
Theyre also unhappy about how HSBC dealt with their attempts  to have the block  removed. 
background 
Mr K, and his sister, Mrs K are joint account holders. On 19 December 2018, whilst at the 
airport for a flight to Greece,  Mr K discovered  he was unable to access his money. He called 
HSBC who told him the account had been blocked because his address was incorrect  on its 
system. HSBC said it needed to speak to both account holders to get the account 
unblocked. 
On 28 December 2018 Mr K and his sister  telephoned HSBC, but it was unable to verify 
Mrs Ks identity.  HSBC said they should  visit one of its branches in Athens  so Mrs Ks 
identity could be verified. Mr K and his sister  visited  a branch on 31 December 2018 but 
were told they were unable to help. 
On 2 January  2019 Mr K visited  an HSBC branch in London  and the account was unblocked. 
There was no need for his sister  to be present.     
Mr K complained to HSBC. HSBC apologised for the time Mr K had spent on the phone  
when he called on 19 December 2018,  but it didnt think  itd done anything  wrong.  HSBC  
paid Mr K £25 as a gesture of good will. Mr K remained unhappy and referred  his complaint 
to us. Mrs K was happy for her brother to complain to us on their behalf.  Mr K felt HSBC had 
been wrong to block the account. He said this, together  with the delays and mis-advice  
about how to get the block removed, caused  him and his sister financial loss, distress  and 
inconvenience. He wanted HSBC to pay him £5,000. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  and upheld it. He felt the closure  of Mr Ks 
account couldve been avoided. He found  it likely  Mr K had updated HSBC  with his new 
address and that it shouldve carried out more checks before blocking the account. He found 
HSBCs mistake was further compounded by the advice it gave Mr K and his sister about 
needing both account holders to be present to unblock the account,  and wrongly telling them 
they should visit an HSBC branch in Greece. 
Our investigator asked  HSBC to cover the costs incurred by Mr K and his sister as a result of 
their account  being blocked. He said they should provide HSBC with the necessary 
supporting evidence. He also asked HSBC  to increase the compensation its paid from £25 to 
£300 (an extra £275) to reflect the distress  and inconvenience caused  to Mr and Mrs K. 
HSBC agreed to pay Mr K the additional £275. Mr K didnt think  the increased payment was 
enough. He said hed accept £3,000. As no agreement could be reached the case  has been 
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator. This means I wont  be asking HSBC  to pay 
more than the extra £275 its agreed to pay. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN26265852I dont intend to go into detail on the circumstances surrounding the block  on Mr K and his 
sisters account. HSBC  hasnt disputed our investigators finding that it acted unfairly  in 
blocking the account. Nor has HSBC disagreed that its actions following the block increased 
the impact on Mr K and his sister.  It seems  to me both parties  accept things went wrong.  
My focus has been on what  HSBC  should do to put things right. Mr K and his sister had no 
access to their money from 19 December 2018  to 2 January  2019.  They  also had to 
telephone HSBC and drove to a branch in Greece. Mr Ks told us that this caused him direct  
financial loss. Hes also told us he and his sister  had to take time off work,  cancel medical  
appointments and borrow  money. In total, Mr K says this cost them in the region of £5,000. 
When looking at whether a business  should reimburse a customer for direct financial loss, 
wed expect a customer to provide evidence of that loss. If that evidence  shows the loss was 
directly linked to the business  mistakes, then wed expect the business to pay it. Weve not 
seen evidence from Mr K or his sister  to support  the loss theyre claiming. Thats  not to say I 
dispute what theyre saying, but without evidence Im not able to ask HSBC to pay what  
theyve asked for. In order to put Mr K and his sister back  in the position they wouldve been 
in if their account hadnt been blocked, they should provide HSBC with evidence of any 
direct financial  loss and HSBC should  consider that evidence.  
Mr K and his sister were clearly caused distress and inconvenience  by the account being 
closed and by the events  which followed thereafter.  But HSBC  accepts  this and has agreed 
to pay Mr K and his sister a total of £300. Mr K doesnt accept this amount, but it seems to 
me his motivation  for that is linked to the direct financial loss he believes he and his sister 
suffered because of HSBCs mistakes. Payments for distress and inconvenience are 
separate to payments for direct financial loss. A payment of £300  is towards  the higher end 
of what Id expect  a business to pay for circumstances like this. And I think this is a fair 
amount for the distress  and inconvenience  HSBC caused Mr K and his sister by blocking 
their account. So I wont  be asking HSBC to pay any more.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint.
To put things right, HSBC  UK Bank PLC should:
pay Mr and Mrs K £275; and
consider any evidence Mr and Mrs K provide to support their claim for direct  financial 
loss.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2019.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2626585