K821x#15complaint
Mr G says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three payday  loans and two instalment loans MYJAR Limited 
provided to Mr G between July 2016  and February 2017. Mr G first borrowed and repaid  
three payday loans  for amounts of £360,  £233.60  and £417.20, including  interest  and 
charges. He then borrowed  £350  to be repaid in three monthly  instalments of about £180. 
Mr G repaid this loan early and then borrowed £1,200 to be repaid in 12 instalments of 
£173.39. There were no significant breaks in the lending.  Mr G repaid all his loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Gs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan three 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. MYJAR  disagreed and so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN29847642Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
MYJAR asked Mr G for information about  his income  and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Mr G said his monthly  income was between £2,100  and £2,200. He said his 
monthly expenditure was between £1,256 and £1,456. 
For loans one and two, given the loan amounts, what was apparent  about Mr Gs 
circumstances at the time and his history with MYJAR, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr G provided or the information 
MYJAR shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what Mr G was saying. So I cant say it was wrong for MYJAR to have provided 
loans one and two. 
But as our adjudicator  explained, a proportionate check  for loan three  would most  likely have 
shown that Mr G was having problems managing his money:
MYJAR would have been aware of Mr Gs other short-term borrowing from its credit 
checks; Mr G had multiple short-term loan commitments  with another  lender;
This persisted for loans four and five. 
So I think MYJAR should have realised that Mr G would  be unable to sustainably repay loan 
three, or any subsequent loans. And so I think it was wrong to provide  loans  three to five and 
I think MYJAR should put things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr G paid on loans three to five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans three to five from Mr Gs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN29847643my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Gs complaint. I 
require MYJAR Limited to pay Mr G compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2984764