K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about the charges  Insurance Factory Ltd (IFL) applied  when  he 
cancelled his motor  insurance policy.
Reference to IFL includes its agents.
background
IFL arranged  a motor  policy for Mr D, which he agreed to pay in monthly instalments. Just 
over a month later Mr D cancelled  his policy. IFL told him he still owed around £140. but 
after he contacted  it, as a goodwill gesture, it offered to reduce that figure  to around £112. 
Mr D didnt think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator 
thought IFL had dealt with Mr D fairly.  Mr D didnt agree  so his complaint's been  passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
Its clear that Mr D wasn't expecting to still have to pay such  a significant sum especially as 
he held his policy for such a short time. But that doesn't mean IFL has done anything  wrong.
IFL is an insurance broker. That means  it arranges and administers policies but it doesn't  
actually provide the cover or apply a charge for the time on risk. That is done by the insurer  
which is a separate  business. And IFL also arranged for a credit provider to loan Mr D the 
full cost of the premium.  Mr D then repaid  that amount in monthly instalments. The credit  
provider is also a separate business  to IFL so any interest or other charges  it applies is 
outside of IFLs control.
When a consumer cancels a policy its usual for the insurer to charge for the time on risk. 
That is the insurer will calculate how many  days it's provided the insurance  cover for and 
charge the consumer for each day of that cover. And if premiums are still owing the insurer  
will generally ask the broker  to collect any sums owed.
Similarly, on cancellation its usual  for a broker  like IFL to make sure that the policyholder 
has paid it all its charges. Those  will include charges for things like arranging  the policy  and 
a cancellation  charge.  It will also seek to recover any non-refundable charges which for Mr D 
included sums for a motor protection policy and a valuation fee. And it will add those 
amounts to any cost for the time on cover  the insurer  has asked it to collect. If the consumer 
has already paid more than the sums owed they will get a refund. If that amount is less than 
the consumer  owes then the broker will charge that balance to the consumer.
In this case after Mr D cancelled his policy he still owed IFL a significant sum. And its clear 
he isnt happy  with that figure. But I don't think IFLs  fees are unreasonable.  Ive seen that it 
made Mr D aware of its cancellation and other  non-refundable  charges  before he took out 
his policy. So given  that it made  Mr D aware of those charges before  he bought the policy, I 
think it was reasonable  that it applied those charges when Mr D cancelled  it. It follows  that I 
don't think  its treated  him unfairly.
Ref: DRN26110832my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2611083