K820x#14complaint
Mrs B feels  Aviva  Insurance Limited treated her unfairly by declining her claim relating to a 
theft from her home. 
background
Mrs B took out home insurance with Aviva in February 2017.  
In March 2017 she registered a theft claim. She said shed been attacked  outside her home 
and then burgled. 
As part of its claims assessment Aviva instructed a loss adjuster, who Ill call C, to interview 
Mrs B. During the interview Cs representative asked Mrs B what happened at the time of 
theft. He also asked her to list the items that had been stolen. Mrs Bs friend,  who Ill call 
Ms K, accompanied Mrs B during the first interview  and acted as her interpreter. C wasnt  
persuaded by the explanations  provided  by Mrs B and Ms K about how the loss had 
happened. It also raised concerns about whether the items claimed for belonged to Mrs B. A 
second interview was conducted with Mrs B, with an independent interpreter present. 
Having considered what Mrs B had said during  both interviews, as well as the evidence 
shed provided,  C declined the claim on Avivas  behalf. It wasnt persuaded the loss had 
occurred as Mrs B described.  It noted  inconsistencies between  what  Mrs B and Ms K said 
happened. Mrs B had said she was hit across the head as she entered  her property. Ms K 
said she later found Mrs B unconscious behind her front door. C suggested this was 
implausible given  the layout of the house and doorway. It said had the event happened as 
described Mrs B would more likely have been  found in her doorway, with the front door 
propped open.  It also thought it was inconsistent that Mrs B said shed been hit hard enough 
to be knocked  unconscious for several hours, but had no recorded injuries and had only 
minimal medical treatment. 
C also doubted that the items claimed  for belonged to Mrs B. It noted the items claimed for  
which included high priced luxury items including designer perfume and jewellery  - didnt 
appear to be consistent with Mrs Bs lifestyle or income. It also said Mrs B had been unable 
to demonstrate she owned the items shed claim for, because some of the receipts  showed  
the items  had been purchased by either  Ms K or Ms Ks husband. It also suggested that 
Ms K had provided detailed knowledge  about  the purchases, whereas Mrs B appeared quite 
vague. 
Mrs B appealed. She said her claim was genuine  and explained  that Ms K had bought some 
of the items but shed then paid for these items  in instalments  over time. She also told Aviva 
she no longer wanted  to pursue the claim for the non-jewellery items from her claim.   
Aviva reconsidered  the claim, but maintained the decision to decline it. It explained  it 
wouldnt be prepared to consider a partial  claim. Aviva also noted that as it considered the 
claim had been  made dishonestly, it had decided not to renew  the policy. It relied  on the 
following policy term:
If your claim is in any way dishonest or exaggerated we will not pay any benefit under  this 
policy or return any premium to you and we may cancel your policy  immediately and 
backdate the cancellation  to the date of the fraudulent claim. We may also take legal action 
against you.
Ref: DRN20337492Our investigator considered the case  and ultimately concluded that Aviva  hadnt acted 
unreasonably in declining the claim.  She explained  it was for Mrs B to demonstrate that it 
was more likely than not that the loss had occurred.  Taking into account  the concerns about  
the circumstances of the loss and the ownership of the items claimed for, she concluded  that 
it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim. 
Mrs B disagreed. She maintained shed acted honestly and felt she was being treated 
unfairly. So the case has been  passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I realise  this will come as a disappointment to Mrs B so Id like to explain how Ive 
reached this decision.  
The policy document sets out that its the policyholders responsibility to prove any loss. In 
practice this means  Mrs B needed  to show Aviva it was more likely than not that there was a 
theft from her house and that the items  claimed  for belonged to her. If shes unable  to show 
the insured event happened, Aviva is under no obligation to pay the claim. So the issue for 
me to decide  is whether Aviva  reasonably  concluded that Mrs B hadnt sufficiently proved 
her claim.
the circumstances of the loss
Ive given careful thought to what Mrs B and Ms K said happened at the time of the loss. Ive 
also considered  the photographs of Mrs Bs front door and her hallway, as well as Cs 
comments. Having  done so, I agree  there were significant inconsistencies  in Mrs B and 
Ms Ks recollections. And this gave  Aviva reason to doubt whether the event happened as 
described, or indeed  at all. 
When describing the events that led up to the loss, Mrs B has consistently described being  
hit over the back of the head  as she was opening  her front door. She said she was found 
unconscious by Ms K several hours later. 
C has said in these  circumstances it wouldve expected Mrs B to have fallen into the 
doorway, which  wouldve  stopped the door from closing.  So Ms Ks statement that she found  
Mrs B inside the front door seemed  unlikely.  It also suggested it was implausible  for the door 
to have been opened from outside  if Mrs B had been  lying in the hallway, as her body 
wouldve stopped  the door from opening. 
C also suggested the medical assistance Mrs B received seemed inconsistent with the injury 
she said she sustained.  Mrs B said the blow to the head had left her unconscious  for several  
hours. Although  Mrs B demonstrated that shed been taken to an accident and emergency 
department, she said she was discharged within a few hours, having been  prescribed pain 
killers. Im not a medical  expert  and so cant say for certain that Mrs B would have received 
more extensive  treatment had she been left unconscious for some time. But I can 
understand why C considered this suspicious given the other inconsistencies.  
Having carefully considered all the available information, I agree there are a number of 
unexplained inconsistencies in Mrs Bs account  of what  happened. When viewed as a whole, 
Ref: DRN20337493I think Aviva  reasonably concluded Mrs B hadnt  sufficiently demonstrated the theft 
happened.   
proof of ownership 
Having carefully considered all the information  Aviva  had available  when it assessed the 
claim, I can understand why it had concerns about  whether Mrs B owned the items shed 
claimed for. 
Mrs B initially submitted her claim electronically. She was then asked to call Aviva  to discuss 
the claim.  Ive listened to a recording of this call and note that Mrs B was hesitant when 
describing some of the items that had been  stolen, and on a couple  of occasions had to refer 
to someone else for the details of what the items were. If Mrs B owned the items Id have 
expected her to be able to easily describe them,  without referring to her friend.  So I can 
understand why this made C doubt  whether  she did in fact own the items.
Mrs B claimed for the loss of a number of high value items  including  jewellery;  designer  
perfume and watches;  a mobile phone;  a laptop and a large quantity of gold.  While  Mrs B 
was able to provide receipts for some of these  items, it was established that Ms K and her 
husband had actually purchased a number of these  items. Aviva also suggested  that an 
attempt had been made to conceal  the true owner  of one of the high value items, as the 
name and address section of the receipt  had been  torn off. Mrs B said the name hadnt been  
concealed it had just torn off from repeated folding. But this doesnt seem likely as the tear 
line was jagged, suggesting to me it had been intentionally ripped off. 
Mrs B has explained that she has a very close relationship with Ms K, and that Ms K bought  
items for her and she then paid her back. But theres no evidence to show  this arrangement 
was in place. Mrs Bs bank statements dont show any evidence  of payments being made to 
Ms K, or any regular cash withdrawals that couldve been used to make  repayments. 
In the circumstances, I think C fairly and reasonably concluded Mrs B had not satisfactorily 
shown the items she claimed for belonged  to her. 
Given the concerns  Aviva  had about both the circumstances of the loss, and Mrs Bs 
ownership of the items claimed for, I consider it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to decline 
the claim.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2033749