K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly  rejected a claim under their 
motor insurance policy.
As Mr T has been the contact in this case Ill refer to him throughout.
background
Mr T believes his vehicle  suffered damage as a result of hitting a pothole.  The vehicle broke 
down and a roadside assistance  company attended.  The patrol person completed a report,  
which was provided  to Mr T. Theres no suggestion  in the report  that a pothole  was involved.  
The issue  with the vehicle included a drive  belt failure and problems with a water pump. The 
vehicle was recovered to a garage  of Mr Ts choice,  and it recommended a replacement 
engine.
UKI declined  Mr Ts claim because the damage  was, in their engineers opinion, mechanical  
failure and not caused by a pothole. It offered to review any new evidence Mr T might 
provide.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  She 
explained that the policy excluded mechanical  breakdown or breakage and so reviewed the 
engineering evidence. She said the damage  areas  were mechanical and the car had 
overheated with a gasket failure.  Water levels were noted to be low and taking  this all into 
account she was persuaded the damage was mechanical. 
Mr T provided some further  documentation as he didnt agree with the investigators 
outcome. She found there was reference  to suspected damage caused  by bad pothole but 
didnt think there was sufficient and persuasive  reasoning to show  that a pothole was the 
likely cause of the damage to Mr Ts vehicle. Mr T disagreed and pointed particularly to 
damaged tyres.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  in dispute is whether the damage to Mr Ts vehicle  was caused by a pothole or if it 
was mechanical damage. While its not in dispute  that the policy doesnt cover mechanical 
damage, its noteworthy that car insurance policies do not cover  this generally. There are 
other more  specific policies that can cover mechanical damage  but such a policy isnt 
involved in this case.
In looking at what the more likely cause of the damage is Ive put a lot of weight on the 
roadside assistance report. It is the most contemporaneous record  of what  was reported, 
and what a likely cause  from a suitably qualified person was at the time of the breakdown. I 
appreciate that the report is not verbatim but I am satisfied  it is more likely to contain a 
relevant summary  of what was reported and what was initially found.
The report  says that Mr T reported the drive belt had failed and that hed driven  a couple of 
miles with defect. It details what checks were carried out and this included a water pump had 
Ref: DRN24355402collapsed. The engine was run up to temperature and was found to be deficient of 2 litres of 
oil. 
I find it highly unlikely  that if Mr T had told the patrol  person  that hed hit a pothole that such 
information would be left off the report. In my experience of dealing with cases  involving 
pothole related damage issues can arise with the suspension and steering. I note that 
neither of these  was checked. In all the circumstances Im not persuaded that Mr T reported 
hitting a pothole. And I am persuaded  that the issues  at this point were  thought  to be 
mechanical rather than an accident with a pothole.
UKIs engineer inspected  Mr Ts car and noted all the damage was mechanically  related and 
there was nothing that suggested hitting a pothole was the cause. And Ive considered  the 
further documents Mr T sent us, which includes  reference to a badly stepped tyre. I accept 
that a badly stepped  tyre could possibly indicate the car has hit a pothole. But its just a 
possibility. Other information  from suitably qualified people would need  to give more  
information to show whether  its more likely  than not that event occurred, and then if it did 
whether it was the likely  cause of the damage  claimed.
There is no reasoning  in Mr Ts documentation to justify  why or how the mechanical  damage 
could be related to hitting  a pothole. Even  if the tyre was accepted  as damaged  in an 
accident its cost would be below the excess amount  and so Mr T wouldnt receive any 
payment from UKI.
Having thought about this carefully Im not persuaded  that Mr T has demonstrated that its 
more likely than not his car was damaged by hitting a pothole. I am persuaded that the 
damage is the result of mechanical breakdown and so isnt covered by his policy.
And thinking more  widely  about whats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances I dont 
think it would  be fair to compel UKI to pay Mr Ts claim. There are other  types of insurance  
policies that could give Mr T cover for mechanical breakdowns in certain circumstances. But 
his car insurance policy is in place for mandatory legal reasons to cover  third party liabilities  
and other  losses as defined and excluded  by the policy. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2435540