K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt  reimbursed  money  she lost as a result of a 
scam.
background
On the evening of 16 January 2019  Miss N was contacted through Facebook Messenger  by 
someone impersonating one of her friends.  Ill call this person the scammer. The scammer  
said hed sold a laptop and the buyer  wanted to pay by PayPal, but he  the scammer  
didnt have a PayPal account.  The scammer therefore asked Miss N if she could receive the 
PayPal payment and then transfer  the funds back to him. 
Miss N agreed to this and received £480.42  to the PayPal  account. She transferred  £480 of 
this to her HSBC bank  account. She was then able to forward just £440 of this onto the 
scammer, as her HSBC  account was overdrawn before the £480 went  in. Miss N said she 
would transfer  the rest (£40) the following day.
Overnight  in the early hours of 17 January 2019  Miss N received a message  from the 
friend she thought  shed  been communicating with, saying that his Facebook  account  had 
been compromised.
Subsequently the £480 that had been credited  to the PayPal account  seemingly  by the 
scammer was reversed out, leaving Miss N out of pocket by £440.
HSBC didnt recover or refund to Miss N the money  she lost. Miss N remained unhappy and 
referred her complaint  about  HSBC here. Our adjudicator didnt uphold  the complaint. 
Miss N remained  unhappy  and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached materially the same  conclusions as the adjudicator, and for 
materially the same reasons. 
I know Miss N has been waiting for this final answer for a long time and this isnt the 
outcome shes been hoping  for. I understand why she has wanted to do all she can to try to 
get her money  back. And I have no reason to doubt  that Miss N has, as she says,  been the 
victim of a scam. Im really sorry shes lost this money. Here, however, I need to decide 
whether it would be fair and reasonable for HSBC, in all the circumstances of this case, to be 
held responsible for this loss. Overall, Im satisfied that it wouldnt and Ill explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Ref: DRN27235122Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Thats not the end of the story though.  The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its 
customer if it makes  a payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although 
not necessarily proof) for believing  that the payment  instruction  was an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds  of its customer (known as the Quincecare duty).  And regulated 
firms like HSBC  are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, care and 
diligence (FCA Principle  for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers (Principle 6). 
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken  
proactive steps  to identify and help prevent transactions   particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions   that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam.  This is 
particularly so in light of the environment  created  by the increase in sophisticated
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the
average customer.
So, with all this in mind,  I have considered the position carefully.
Ive reviewed Miss Ns account  statements leading up to the payment. And overall and in the 
context of Miss Ns normal spending  and account  usage, Im satisfied  here that it wouldnt be 
fair and reasonable to say that the payment  should  have appeared unusual  or suspicious to 
HSBC such that it should  have reasonably suspected Miss N was at risk of financial harm. 
The payment was for a greater amount than Miss Ns normal spend, but it was for £440  and 
Miss N had made payments greater than this before. And Im not satisfied in the particular 
circumstances here that the payment being  to a new payee should have made HSBC 
automatically suspicious that Miss N was at risk of financial harm. So in the circumstances 
here, Im satisfied that HSBC didnt do anything wrong by following the instructions Miss N 
gave to send the money without questioning Miss N about the payment  first. And as there 
wasnt any interaction between Miss N and HSBC as part of the payment request, HSBC 
didnt otherwise unreasonably miss an opportunity to unearth  the scam and prevent the 
payment before it was made.
Ive thought about the likelihood that the beneficiary account holders name didnt match  the 
payee name Miss N instructed. However,  at the time the payment was made, the relevant  
regulations  the Payment Service Regulations 2017  set out that payments are sent 
according to the unique  identifiers (typically the account number and sort code).
In particular, section  90 of the Payment  Service Regulations 2017 states:
(1) Where  a payment order is executed with the unique identifier, the payment order is 
deemed to have been correctly executed  by each payment service provider involved in 
executing the payment  order  with respect to the payee specified by the unique identifier.
(5) Where  the payment service user provides information additional to that specified in 
regulation 43(2)(a)the payment service provider  is liable only for the execution of payment 
transactions in accordance with the unique identifier provided by the payment service  user.
The impact  of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went  to the account 
number and sort code  instructed by the payer (here, Miss N). There was no regulatory  
requirement to check the beneficiary name  provided. So, even  if the beneficiary account  
Ref: DRN27235123holders name didnt match the payee name Miss N instructed, I cant  fairly say HSBC didnt 
follow Miss Ns instruction when it sent the payment to the account number and sort code 
provided, and Im not persuaded  it should have done more to check the beneficiary in the 
circumstances of this payment.
When HSBC became aware  of the scam, it should have acted quickly to try to recover  
Miss Ns money from the beneficiary account.  I know this is disappointing to Miss N and I do 
empathise with the situation she has found herself  in. Ultimately, however, it was the 
scammer that tricked  Miss N. And Im satisfied by the available  information that the funds 
Miss N sent to the payee had already been utilised and spent by the payee before Miss N 
realised she had been scammed  and that ultimately HSBC wouldnt have been able to 
recover the money in any event.
In the circumstances, whilst I empathise  with Miss N and appreciate she will be 
disappointed, Im satisfied that it wouldnt  be fair and reasonable for HSBC to be held 
responsible for her loss.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2723512