K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs P says Barclays  Bank UK PLC,  trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs P says the PPI was added to her account without her knowledge. But I think  Barclays  
made it clear  that Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Barclays has given me examples of the pages  from the online application it thinks Mrs P 
would have completed and these pages show she would have been asked to choose if she 
wanted the policy and select either yes or no options on screen. Whilst I cant be sure 
exactly what she saw and filled in, I think its more likely Mrs P would have seen these 
options when  applying for the credit card and that the PPI was added to her account as a 
result of her selecting yes.
Ive also seen copies  of her credit  card statements and I can see that the charge  for the PPI 
showed as a separate entry. So if Mrs P didnt know what this charge was for or hadnt 
agreed to take out the PPI, I think she would have  questioned this with Barclays  sooner than 
she did.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Barclays  made Mrs P aware the 
policy was optional and she agreed to take it out, knowing she would refuse  it if she didnt 
want it.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have  to make  sure Mrs P got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information Barclays  gave  Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P. 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because:
Ref: DRN25335392Barclays got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about  that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mrs P, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs P has said - including what she has said about not 
needing the policy as she would receive  six months  full pay, followed by six months  half 
pay from her employer  if she was unable to work  due to accident  or sickness. But this policy  
would pay out for up to 12 months  which would be in addition to, and potentially  for longer 
than, her full sick pay. And it would pay out for the same length of time if she was to lose her 
job. As Mrs P has told us she didnt have  any savings  or other  means with which  to meet 
her repayments if she wasnt earning, I think this policy could have provided a useful benefit 
to her. So this point  doesnt change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs P any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2533539