K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out when Mrs T applied for an M&S account card 
in 1996 by filling out a leaflet instore. The PPI gave Mrs T accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment cover. 
M&S sold the PPI to Mrs T but Allianz, the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale and 
the complaint.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed so the complaint was passed
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs T says she didnt  know  she had the PPI, it wasnt  mentioned.  But when she applied  for 
the account card she ticked  a box on the application  form indicating  she wanted to take out 
PPI. Overall,  I think Allianz made it clear to Mrs T the PPI was optional  and she agreed to 
take it out.
Allianz says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs T. Mrs T disagrees,  and points to the 
wording on the form We strongly recommend you take cover by ticking the box. But I dont 
think this is evidence that Allianz made  a personal recommendation after reviewing  her 
individual circumstances.  And I dont think at the time of the sale she would have interpreted 
this pre-printed statement  as a personal  recommendation solely  addressed to her. Given  
what we know about the instore sales process,  I think its unlikely Allianz  provided  advice to 
Mrs T when  she bought the PPI. This means  it didnt have to check  if it was suitable  for her. 
It was up to Mrs T to decide  whether the policy was right for her bearing in mind  her ability to 
make her account card repayments if she was unable to work or lost her job. 
Its possible Allianz didnt  give Mrs T all the information about the PPI that she needed
before she made her decision. But Mrs T chose to take out the policy and so appears to 
have wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  Mrs T says she was 
entitled to between six and 12 months sick pay and had some  savings. But the PPI would 
have paid out for up to 12 months in addition to her work  benefits,  and allowed her to use 
her savings to cover  other  living expenses whilst she wasnt working   or to keep them intact 
for her future needs. So, based  on her circumstances at the time and the terms of the policy,  
I think it unlikely Mrs T wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided.
It follows that I dont think Mrs T has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
Ref: DRN29817232I know Mrs T sent in details of another PPI complaint that was upheld  by a lender  but I can 
only comment here on the individual merits of this complaint. Linked  to that policy,  she also 
explained that she didnt try to claim on this policy when made redundant as she didnt know  
she had it. She should contact Allianz directly to find out if she is able to make a 
retrospective claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept
or reject my decision before 10 November 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2981723