K822xcomplaint
Mr P has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it didnt  
change his vehicle  details under his car insurance  policy.
background 
Mr P contacted Admiral  in February 2018 in order to change  the vehicle  on the policy. 
Admiral charged him a small admin fee and told him he was insured to drive  his new car.
A few months later Mr P was made  aware by the Motor Insurance  Bureau (MIB) that he 
wasnt insured. It transpired that there  had been  an admin error and Admiral hadnt changed 
the vehicle properly on its systems. Admiral told Mr P that it wouldve covered him had 
anything have happened to him while he was driving  as it was clearly its error  and waived 
the admin charge.
So Mr P complained to Admiral as he wasnt happy  and because  it didnt waive  the charge 
as it had suggested. Admiral looked  to ensure that the admin  charge was waived and offered  
£100 compensation. But as Mr P remained unhappy he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He explained  that this 
was the second time that Admiral had made this error and thought  that this wouldve caused  
additional stress and suggested £200 compensation. Admiral agreed,  but Mr P didnt so the 
matter has been  passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
It is clear that Admiral made an error  when  it failed to place Mr Ps car on cover. And 
although it is clear that it wouldve covered him if Mr P was involved in an accident  it mustve 
been stressful for Mr P to have been  contacted by the MIB. Plus, this was the second such 
problem Mr P had with Admiral and it compounded  its error  by not ensuring that the admin 
charge was waived  initially.
But Admiral  has accepted this and agreed  to the £200 compensation the investigator 
suggested which seems  more than fair in the circumstances. Im not persuaded that the 
compensation level should be increased  as it is clear that this was just an error and that 
Admiral wouldve covered Mr P if he was involved in an accident.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay Mr P £200 compensation and refund his admin fee. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Ref: DRN28187552Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2818755