K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about a finance agreement taken out with Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc which he 
thought was interest free. The agreement  financed the purchase  of window blinds and hes 
also unhappy with the quality of the blinds.  
background
Mr M agreed  to purchase two window blinds from a supplier who Ill call T for £2,843. He 
says he was asked  to sign an electronic document which confirmed he was agreeing to pay 
for them using  an interest  free agreement. He says he agreed  there would be a fee of 
£503.50 to have the finance set up, which he says he thought he was paying to Hitachi. He 
also paid a £100 deposit. 
A day later Mr M agreed to purchase  an additional  window blind bringing  the total to £3,460. 
This was arranged during a telephone conversation with T. Mr M says he didnt receive  any 
finance paperwork but understood that he would  be paying for all of the blinds over a four 
year interest free period.  He says it was agreed the previous agreement for £2,743 wouldnt 
go ahead  and hed be left with just one agreement for £3,360  (plus  the £100  deposit hed 
already paid).
Around six months later, Hitachi wrote to Mr M to say hed missed a payment  on his finance  
agreement. Mr M requested a copy of the finance paperwork. He then realised it was a ten 
year agreement and it wasnt interest free. Mr M complained  to T and Hitachi. 
Hitachi said it had sent Mr M the finance agreements  by email after hed signed them.  But 
Mr M said the email address Hitachi sent them to wasnt his, so he never received them.  He 
was also very concerned  that the signatures  on the finance agreements werent his. Mr M 
complained that the agreements therefore werent  valid and had been set up fraudulently.  
He said he was also unable to cancel the finance within his 14 day cooling off period as he 
never received the documents to realise they were  wrong.
T accepted it had made mistakes with the sales process and offered to pay all the interest 
under the finance agreement. Hitachi didnt agree to do anything  further as it thought  Ts 
offer was fair. Mr M also said the blinds  werent of satisfactory quality and they were  falling 
apart. Hitachi agreed to an inspection  which  confirmed there was problems with the blinds. 
Hitachi said those issues have since been fixed. 
I sent Mr M and Hitachi my provisional  decision on 19 December 2019. I explained why 
I thought the complaint should  be upheld. 
I said that the issues concerning the satisfactory  quality of the blinds  appeared to now be 
resolved. For that reason I didnt think Hitachi needed to do anything  more in relation to that. 
But in relation to the sale of the finance agreements I said Hitachi were  responsible  for how 
its agent had brokered the agreement.  I didnt  think enough care had been taken when the 
agreements were brokered. An extract from my provisional decision on this issue  is set out 
below:
Mr M says he never signed  the finance  agreement, nor did he see it. He says he was under 
the impression  the agreement was interest free for four years. But Mr M says he believed 
there was an additional  finance  fee of £503.50  to pay. He says he believed he had agreed  
to pay Hitachi £503.50 and the remainder  (by interest free instalments) directly to T. 
Ref: DRN20598582T says the first finance agreement for £2,743 was signed electronically on the day of sale.  
But Hitachi  (nor T) can provide any persuasive  evidence to demonstrate that happened. 
Further, its not in dispute that the finance  documents were sent to an email address that 
didnt belong  to Mr M. Its also not in dispute that the second  agreement for three blinds for 
£3,360 wasnt  signed by Mr M. So it appears Mr M may not have signed  either of the finance  
agreements. 
Mr M says that the agreements were taken out fraudulently and he therefore shouldnt be 
bound by it. But only a court can decide  whether Hitachi can enforce the agreement  against 
Mr M. My role is to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. To do that, Ive 
thought carefully  about all the wider circumstances.  
Mr M does  appear to have thought hed entered into a finance agreement of some sort. So 
whether he actually signed the agreement or not, he was expecting to be bound to an 
agreement where  hed have to pay at least the cash price of the blinds. Hes also received 
the blinds  and was making  monthly  repayments  for them.  So I dont think  it would be fair or 
reasonable to say he shouldnt have to pay anything to Hitachi. 
Mr M says he should only have to pay £503.50  to Hitachi and the rest of the cash  price to T, 
but I dont agree thats fair. Hitachi has financed the whole purchase of the blinds except for 
the £100 deposit Mr M paid. This is because  T doesnt provide finance  agreements 
themselves. Hitachi has also paid T for the blinds already, so its Hitachi  not T  that is 
owed money for the blinds. As Mr M has had the blinds installed, and has had use of them, 
its fair he pays at least the cash price  for them  which  was £3,460,  not £503.50. 
Mr M says he had only agreed to take out finance for £503.50 with Hitachi.  Hes referred to 
the sales invoice  he was given to demonstrate why he believes the finance with Hitachi  was 
only for £503.50. But I think that document is clear that he was agreeing  to take out an initial  
finance agreement  for £2,743  not £503.50.
The £503.50  was actually a discount he received  because hed agreed to pay by finance 
and not something  additional he had to pay. So had Mr M chosen to pay for the blinds a 
different way  say by credit card or bank transfer, the blinds would have  cost him £503.50 
more. 
I accept Mr M didnt  actually see the finance  agreement and was likely led to believe it would 
be interest free. Hes been consistent  throughout on what he says he was told by the 
salesperson. And given  how hed interpreted the £503.50 discount and who he was 
supposed to be paying, I think further demonstrates he was either  misled  or at the very least  
given unclear or incomplete information  about how the finance would work.  Ive also 
considered that T appears  to accept something went wrong with the sales  process.  
Its not disputed  that Mr M wasnt presented with any documentation  in relation to the second 
agreement at the point of sale.  This is because it was all arranged  over the phone.  Mr M and 
T have said the understanding was that the second  agreement would simply replace the first 
 but for a greater amount of finance to account for the additional blind  Mr M had ordered. 
So I dont  think Mr M could  have  reasonably  known  the second  agreement wasnt  interest  
free either. 
So taking everything into account, I think both agreements werent brokered with sufficient  
care. I think its more likely than not Mr M was led to believe hed signed up to an interest 
Ref: DRN20598583free finance  agreement for initially £2,743, and later £3,360  with a further finance fee of 
£503.50.
putting things  right
It appears Hitachi didnt  offer an interest  free finance agreement  or one where  Mr M would 
only pay £503.50 in additional interest  and charges. Mr M clearly feels very strongly about 
what happened and Im persuaded he wouldnt have entered  into this agreement  or bought  
the blinds  had he known the true cost of the finance.
Ive considered that Mr M has now got the blinds and they have been fitted into his property. 
He has also been  using them for a considerable period of time. While I accept hes had 
some issues  regarding  their quality, those appear  to now have been  fixed.  I understand the 
blinds cant simply be removed without  causing damage to Mr Ms property. While I could 
direct Hitachi  to put right any damage caused  in removing  the blinds, I dont think this is a 
proportionate or reasonable  remedy overall.  
Mr M appears to have wanted the blinds and at various stages of the complaints process he 
has suggested hed be willing to pay the cash price  (plus the finance fee) for them.  So he 
does (or at least did) want to keep them. Allowing Mr M to keep the blinds would also cause 
less disruption to him as arrangements would need  to be made to have them removed and 
remedial work carried  out. The costs involved in any remedial work that might be needed are 
also difficult to predict.  So taking everything into account I think  the fairest  thing to do is to 
allow Mr M to keep  the blinds. 
As Im suggesting Mr M should be allowed to keep the blinds, I think  its fair he pays the 
cash price for them, which is £3,460. But I dont think  it would be fair for him to have to pay 
the contractual interest due under the finance agreement.  This is because Im satisfied he 
wouldnt have agreed to it had he known the true cost. But as Mr M has said he assumed he 
was going to be paying an additional £503.50 for the finance, I think he should also pay this 
to Hitachi. I think this is the fairest outcome for both parties. It means Hitachi  can still charge 
some interest and it is what Mr M was led to believe he would pay (and was happy to pay).  
So the total Hitachi can charge Mr M is £3,963.50. 
Hitachi should come  to a suitable repayment  arrangement with Mr M for any outstanding  
balance. If Mr M has already paid more  than £3,963.50 to Hitachi  then it should  be treated 
as an overpayment. Any overpayment should be refunded to Mr M, adding 8% simple  
interest per year from the date of overpayment  to the date of settlement. Hitachi  should also 
remove any adverse data its recorded  on Mr Ms credit  file in relation to this agreement  (if 
any). 
Lastly, Mr M has clearly been  caused  considerable upset and confusion  regarding these 
finance agreements. There have been  significant mistakes made by Hitachis agents when 
the agreements  were arranged. Further, Mr M has been very distressed by what he sees  as 
fraudulent activity taking  place. He also discovered that he owes considerably  more  than he 
expected and would be committed to an agreement  more than twice as long as he expected  
to be. Taking  everything into consideration, I think Hitachi  should also pay Mr M £500  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  hes been caused. 
Hitachi accepted  my provisional decision  but Mr M only accepted it in part. In summary, 
Mr M said he accepted the amount that should be paid for the blinds. But he wasnt  satisfied 
the £500 compensation was enough to reflect the severity of what  had happened.  
Ref: DRN20598584Mr M said he believes Hitachi and T knowingly  and maliciously attempted  to commit fraud so 
he didnt agree with me when I said significant mistakes had been made by Hitachis agent. 
He said issues such as one of the credit  agreements being in someone elses  name and 
accepting someone  elses signature  shouldnt be classified as a mistake.  He said that as he 
didnt sign the agreements then they should  be legally null and void. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision,  and for the same reasons.  But I will address 
the additional points Mr M has raised. 
Mr M feels very strongly  about Hitachi and Ts actions. While I understand why he believes 
they have been set up fraudulently and/or maliciously, I havent seen anything  to persuade 
me that its more likely than not to be the case.  I do however think  Hitachi  and its agent took 
insufficient care when arranging and setting  up the agreements. And whether deliberate or 
not, their actions did cause Mr M a great  deal of distress and worry. I think these significant 
problems could and should have been avoided and for that reason compensation should  be 
paid to Mr M. 
In thinking about what fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience Hitachi  and its 
agent caused, Ive taken  into account  that Mr M was at least  aware he had signed some  sort 
of finance agreement. But it clearly  would have been distressing to learn  what his overall 
financial commitment was and how the sale had been conducted.  Ive also thought about 
what the impact was specifically on Mr M. This is because any award is intended  to 
compensate him, not to serve as a penalty or punishment to Hitachi. 
Ive considered that it appears no financial loss has been suffered by Mr M as a result  of 
what happened. He also still received and has had use of the goods he intended  to buy. 
Overall, Im satisfied £500 is a fair and reasonable amount for Hitachi to pay given the 
impact it had on Mr M. 
Lastly, Mr M says that legally the agreement should  be void.  But as I explained  in my 
provisional decision, only a court can decide whether Hitachi  can legally enforce the 
agreement. My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And for 
the reasons Ive given in my provisional  decision above, I think its fair Mr M does pay 
£3,963.50 to Hitachi. 
Ref: DRN20598585my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Hitachi Capital  (UK) Plc to:
Waive all interest under the finance  agreement  except  for £503.50, meaning Mr M 
only needs to repay  a total of £3,963.50 (including his £100 deposit).
If Mr M has already paid more than £3,963.50  any overpayments  should  be refunded 
to him. Hitachi should add 8% simple interest  per year from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement.  
Remove any adverse  information from Mr Ms credit file in relation to this agreement. 
Pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
If Hitachi considers tax should be deducted  from the interest element of my award it should 
provide Mr M with a certificate showing how much tax its taken off so that he can reclaim 
that amount,  assuming he is entitled  to do so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2059858