K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a loan Miss B holds  that is secured  by a second charge  over her 
home. Shes  been trying to arrange  a first charge re-mortgage to raise funds, and this 
necessitated her obtaining a deed  of postponement from her second charge holder. This has 
been turned  down, so Miss B hasnt been  able to go ahead with her re-mortgage. Thats  left 
her unable to buy a car, settle consumer credit  debts, carry out home  improvements,  pay for 
a higher education course, and visit elderly  relatives.
The loan was originally  with a lender Ill call W, but was transferred as part of a portfolio 
sale to a new lender  Ill call C in early 2018.  Some of what  Miss B has complained  about 
relates to what W did before the transfer,  but Im not looking into those issues here. Theyve 
been the subject of a separate complaint. Any subsequent references I might make  to W are 
for context only. 
Im looking  solely at what happened after the loan was transferred to C. C has arranged for 
all of its loan administration to be carried out by a third party, Target  Servicing Limited. That 
means Target is responsible for the issues Miss R is complaining about, so from hereon,  Ill 
refer to the business solely as Target.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex  and theres a lot of 
evidence. Ive read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence  are less 
relevant to the underlying  case  than others. There are also a lot of duplicated evidence  and 
repetition of arguments.  In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather 
less detail than has been presented, using my own words. 
No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.  
Another reason  I have  left out a lot of the detail, and also rounded  some of the monetary 
amounts involved,  is to avoid the risk of identifying Miss B when my decision is published.
Turning now to the specific details of the complaint, Miss Bs loan had been in arrears over 
an extended period due to a combination of redundancy and injuries suffered in a road 
accident. Miss Bs situation had improved since those events and she had been trying to 
negotiate a short-settlement with W during the early  part of 2018, but nothing had been 
agreed before W transferred the loan to C in June  2018,  with a balance  of around £19,000. 
At the time of the transfer, Miss B was in a reduced  payment agreement  whereby she paid 
£70 a month instead of the full amount  of around  £380.
Around this time Miss B had begun the process  of moving her first charge mortgage to a 
new lender. The application, made on the recommendation of her mortgage broker, was to a 
lender Ill call B, for £156,000. The aim was to repay her existing mortgage onto a better 
rate and raise  about £65,000 of new borrowing  at the same time. Miss B intended using the 
Ref: DRN25286432money raised to buy a car, do some  home  improvements, clear  some credit card debts, and 
finance a degree  course. 
B issued  a mortgage offer on 5 June 2018;  it was valid for six months. There was no 
intention to repay the second charge loan from the re-mortgage. This meant  that B would 
require confirmation  in advance that Target  would agree  to execute a deed  of postponement; 
that is a formal document agreeing to its charge ranking second in priority behind Bs new 
first charge.  The job of requesting this fell on E, the firm of conveyancers appointed to carry 
out the legal  work for the re-mortgage. 
As I understand it, E initially sent the deed  of postponement to W, who forwarded it on to 
Target to deal with. Target wrote to Miss B in late June  2018 saying it wasnt  currently  able 
to execute the deed of postponement;  at the same  time, it wrote to E asking for more 
information about Miss Bs financial circumstances, in order to give the request further 
consideration. 
Miss B was unhappy  with the time Target was taking, and thought it inappropriate for it to 
have written to E in the way it had. She had a succession of phone conversations with the 
business, which she found frustrating and upsetting. Aside from the delay with the deed  of 
postponement, Miss B tried to agree a short settlement of the debt, as shed tried previously 
with W. This wasnt  successful. 
Miss B also complained  that Target  had given her the wrong bank account details for making 
payments. Target  provided a final response to the complaint on 20 August 2018;  this said,  in 
summary:
it had sent new bank details after the transfer from W but then had to change  them;  the 
second set of new details had been  given in a letter of 22 June 2018 and were also 
confirmed in the final response itself;
because Miss R was applying to borrow more money, Target needed information to 
assess the equity  position and her ability to pay. It hadnt broken  any regulations by 
requesting the information from E, but it agreed  it could  have handled things better and 
given Miss B a fuller explanation  of why it needed  the information;
Target agreed that its service standards had fallen short, apologised and offered Miss R 
£200 compensation, but reiterated that it still needed the information  so that the deed of 
postponement request could be assessed by its senior team.
Another letter from Target in September 2018  gave Miss B more detail about what 
information it needed in order to assess the deed of postponement  request; the letter 
specified two sets of requirements, depending on the circumstances of the new mortgage, 
and the fee for the application. 
Miss B would have  preferred to have spoken  to Target about  this, but says she was told this 
wasnt possible. She wrote to Target on 18 September  2018  supplying the information and 
supporting documentation it required, and suggested it take the £100  fee from the £200 
compensation that had not yet been paid to her. After assessing all the information  about the 
proposed re-mortgage,  and taking  account of the arrears position  on the loan itself, Target 
decided not to execute the deed of postponement.  
Miss B complained to us. She told us that not being  able to complete her re-mortgage  had 
caused her some serious problems. She had elderly family who lived at a distance from her, 
and not being able to buy a car meant  she had to pay costly  hire charges to visit them. Two 
Ref: DRN25286433members of her close family have died, and another family member lives abroad and she 
was unable to travel to make a visit that was personally and emotionally very important to 
her. 
Miss B had had to reschedule  a study course  to a new location at higher  cost. She also 
talked about the impact  on her of the stress  of dealing with Target, to the extent that shed 
failed one of her exams  and would have to re-sit it in the spring of 2019, at an extra cost of 
around £2,500.  Meanwhile, B wasnt willing to extend the mortgage offer and it expired on 
5 December 2018.
When the case came to us, it was apparent  that a lot of what Miss B was unhappy with 
related to matters  that pre-dated the transfer  of the loan from W to C, to be administered  by 
Target. That included,  but wasnt restricted to, a dispute about  how much  Miss B actually  
owed, plus her unhappiness with the decision to transfer the loan, and delays in informing 
her that it was happening. 
We set up a separate complaint against W to look into pre-transfer events, and the 
investigator to whom this complaint was assigned  focused solely on how Target dealt with 
the deed of postponement. When he did that, he concluded that Target hadnt made an 
unfair decision. He agreed that it could  have handed things better  for Miss B, but he 
thoughts its offer of £200 compensation was fair in all the circumstances.
Miss B asked for her complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial, and we 
dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our 
investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone  else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its ultimately my judgement  to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.  
At the same time as asking for this complaint  to be reviewed, Miss B has indicated that we 
didnt fully deal with everything she was unhappy  with in our assessment of the separate 
complaint against  W. Ive looked briefly at the case file for that complaint, and note that the 
case-handler to whom it was assigned gave  an informal view of it, a bit like the investigator  
did in this case. 
Miss B didnt ask for that complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it was closed 
down. Ive already  said that I cant address the substance of the complaint against W here.  
If Miss B is unhappy with the informal view we expressed on the complaint against  W, she 
could ask for it to be re-opened and referred  to an ombudsman. Shell need to do that 
herself, however;  I cant do that on her behalf.
Turning to the case before me, Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments,  
including listening to recordings of phone calls, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
Ref: DRN25286434circumstances of this complaint. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats  fair in 
the round, independently  from anything  the investigator has said.  
I dont agree that Target knew from the outset that the request fell outside  its criteria. 
It probably knew from the outset that Miss Bs history of arrears meant the request for a 
deed of postponement to facilitate extra  debt wasnt a formality that could just be agreed  on 
the nod, so to speak. But thats  why it needed  to do a fuller assessment of Miss Bs ability to 
afford the additional  borrowing she was trying to get from B. 
From listening to Miss Bs conversations,  its quite  apparent she thought  Target wasnt  
justified in asking  for information to assess affordability. Miss Bs free to think that if she 
wishes, but it was a perfectly  legitimate  commercial  judgement for Target to adopt and is in 
line with its regulatory  obligations to ensure that Miss Bs loan with C remains  affordable and 
sustainable over the remainder of the term. It was being presented with a change of risk, and 
in the end decided the proposed new risk wasnt acceptable. That was no doubt unwelcome 
news for Miss B, but I cant say it was unfair.   Its not for me to second-guess or otherwise 
interfere with a lenders risk assessment by substituting  my own in its place. 
Target first requested  the information it needed in order to complete that assessment (from 
E) in late June 2018, but it only received what it needed (from  Miss B) in mid-September 
2018. I appreciate  Miss B would have preferred to speak directly to the decision-maker,  but 
this wasnt a situation that lent itself it to a resolution by phone. 
Target had asked for specific information  and supporting documentation. The request was 
reasonable, as was directing it initially to Miss Bs appointed conveyancer, and it seems  to 
me there was nothing  substantive to discuss by phone other than when  the material Target  
needed for its assessment would be forthcoming.
Miss Bs desire to secure her new funds and realise her spending plans was very strong,  
and thats understandable. Shes naturally  disappointed at not being able to do the things 
she wants to do, and shes had the shock of personal bereavements to deal with as well. Im 
not unsympathetic towards her in that regard, but my impartiality  means I must also have 
regard for Targets point of view.  
Miss B characterises Targets actions  as backing  her into a corner. Thats her prerogative of 
course, but the other  perspective is that Target  was, being asked to assist  someone whose 
loan it had recently acquired  (and who had a history of financial difficulties and was currently 
in arrears) to take on a significant amount of extra  debt elsewhere, most of which was for 
discretionary spending, and for that new debt to be prioritised ahead of the outstanding debt 
owed to Target. 
In my view, any lender  presented  with that situation would be minded to take a cautious 
approach and want to assess the consumers wider financial circumstances very thoroughly 
before deciding whether to agree or not. 
Miss B will no doubt have found  Targets decision  distressing,  especially alongside her 
personal situation, but it wasnt  unfair.  Miss B said at one stage on the phone  to Target that 
she had a right to re-mortgage.  Thats  not so; being  able to borrow money is not a right or an 
entitlement.
Its also reasonable to conclude  that Target  could, in all likelihood  have  reached  its decision 
sooner if it had been given the information it needed sooner. That would  have left Miss B 
Ref: DRN25286435with more time to explore the other  options she says shes  been  denied the opportunity  to 
look into. A part of that delay was down  to a lack of clarity on Targets  part about  what  it had 
received from E. But its not the sole or even predominant reason Miss B hasnt been able to 
complete her re-mortgage.
 
I cant tell Miss B what  she should have done  differently,  but one alternative might  have  been  
to by-pass  the need for a deed of postponement  altogether by clearing  the second charge 
loan in full from the re-mortgage  with B. 
Im aware Miss B had disputed the amount outstanding with W before the transfer,  but she 
could have continued that dispute  after paying  it off, and in the meantime the re-mortgage  
(which by all accounts  was Miss Bs overwhelming first priority) could have  gone  ahead.  
Miss B made it very clear  to Target  on the phone in July 2018 that she had no intention of 
doing that. That was her choice to make, but in doing so, Miss B did close  off one possibility 
for expediting her re-mortgage.
other matters
Its true that Target gave out new bank details for payments following the transfer from W, 
only to have to change them again  soon afterwards. Of course thats a nuisance for 
borrowers, but it was soon put right, and Miss B has been in possession of the right details 
since August 2018 when  the final response was issued  on her complaint.
Miss B believes fervently that Target treated  her badly. Thats understandable; ultimately it 
didnt do what she wanted it to do. But I have  to emphasise that it didnt  have to, and its 
reasons for not doing so werent unreasonable or unfair. As to how it dealt with Miss B, Ive 
listened to recordings  of the phone  calls she held with Target between June and 
August 2018.  Some of those conversations did get heated at times (Miss Bs words) and 
there were long periods where  Miss B had to remain on hold, which  is always  frustrating. But 
at all times, I find that Target  staff remained courteous and professional, even on the 
occasions when  they were  confronted  with intemperate  language.
In summing up, Miss B has undoubtedly  been  through a difficult time since  she started the 
process of trying to re-mortgage, but only a relatively small part of that is down to 
shortcomings in how Target has handled the administration  of her loan account since  taking 
it over from W. In that context, I find the offer of £200 to be broadly fair in all the 
circumstances. Ill leave  it to Miss B to decide whether, on further reflection, she now wishes 
to accept that, but theres no award  for me to make.
If Miss B does  decide  to accept the business offer, I notice that she suggested that Target 
should collect the £100 fee for dealing with the deed  of postponement from the 
compensation, and simply send  her £100.  That seems sensible and reasonable to me, but 
ultimately, its something Miss B and Target  should be able to deal with between 
themselves, without recrimination over what has gone before.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to the complaint against Target rather than W, and to 
those matters that I consider have a material effect  on the outcome. I can see from her 
submissions the determination  with which Miss B has brought the complaint. She sees  error 
or wrong-doing in almost  everything the business has done  (or not done).  Thats  a natural,  
subjective reaction,  and entirely understandable. 
Ref: DRN25286436Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments  that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint.  Be that as it may, I have to take a different approach.  Im impartial and I 
have to look at things objectively,  sometimes taking  a step back and focussing on the 
broader picture. Thats what Ive done.  Having done so, I cant  find in Miss Bs favour,  
however much she thinks I should.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2528643