K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains that Barclays Bank Plc have  opened  a SIPP  account  without his permission, 
and have charged him fees on it.
background 
Sometime before December 2016 Mr E closed his SIPP account with Barclays.  In December 
2016 Barclays sent him a P45, referring  to his recently closed SIPP  account.  
Over the August 2017 bank holiday weekend Barclays migrated its investment accounts to a 
new platform. At the time of that migration it seems  that Barclays  held £99.12  in cash  that 
was for Mr Es SIPP,  along with shares in a de-listed company that had a nominal value of 
nine pence. Its not known  why the cash hadnt  been sent to Mr E prior to that weekend.
In any event, the effect of those assets being  retained by Barclays at the time that it 
transferred accounts  to a new platform meant  that a new SIPP account was automatically 
opened for Mr E, and the cash and shares  placed in it. The account had an opening balance  
of £52.62 in cash. This was after an administration fee of £46.50 had been deducted prior to 
the transfer. 
Once the account was opened, fees and charges began to accrue and be deducted from the 
cash balance of the new account. Mr E began receiving statements for the new account  
showing the deduction of these fees.
Mr E says he contacted  Barclays many  times  to try to get the account  closed,  but was 
unable to do so. Finally, on 28 March 2018  Mr E wrote to Barclays to complain. On 10 April 
2018 Barclays sent a response to the complaint.  It apologised  for the error. It set out the fees 
that had been debited  from the account,  and confirmed the then current  balance  was £3.21. 
Barclays said that in order to refund the fees it needed Mr E to nominate a personal bank 
account to receive  payments out of the new SIPP account. It asked  him to provide a copy  of 
a recent  bank statement if the account he nominated wasnt held with Barclays. Barclays 
explained that once the fees and remaining cash balance had been paid out to Mr E, he 
could request that the SIPP account be closed by calling the bank. At that time he could also 
ask for information concerning his options in relation to the de-listed shares.  
Barclays also confirmed that an administration fee of £46.50  had been charged, but that as it 
related to his original  Barclays SIPP  account it couldnt refund it using the same method (i.e. 
it couldnt refund it into the new SIPP account). It offered Mr E £250 compensation, which  
included the £46.50.
Mr E wrote on 12 April, providing bank  details of an account with another  bank,  but no 
statement. He also said Barclays had missed  the point as it had set up the new SIPP, not 
him. He couldnt call up to close it, as he didnt have the right information to do so. And hed 
received a further demand for fees of £37.50  on an account balance of £3.21.  He said he 
assumed their next move would be a CCJ against  him. He suggested that Barclays  pay him 
all monies and close the account.  He also said his fee for writing the letter was £500. 
Barclays replied on 12 April, saying  its decision in its letter of 10 April wouldnt change.  It 
asked again for a copy of a bank account statement from him. It also said its offer of £250  
remained open, and told him ways he could  contact it to accept the offer and asked him to 
nominate his preferred  payment method for the compensation  payment.
Ref: DRN25374182Mr E wrote again to Barclays  on 23 April,  enclosing further Barclays requests for additional  
fees. He repeated his requests made  in the letter of 12 April.  
Barclays responded on 24 April, in much  the same  terms as its earlier letter  
On 26 April Mr E brought his complaint to our service. He gave the background to his 
complaint and said he was concerned that now his account balance was at zero Barclays 
would issue a CCJ against him for services he didnt  ask for. 
In late September  our investigator gave his view. He thought that providing all the fees and 
charges were put back into Mr Es SIPP account and he was sent a cheque for the balance, 
Barclays offer of £250 for his distress and inconvenience (which included  the £46.50 fee 
deducted before the transfer  to the new platform) was fair and reasonable.
Mr E replied,  saying  the compensation offered in no way covered his time, let alone his 
stress. Mr E said the account was set up without his permission and that the business  
continued to apply charges to his account despite  numerous attempts by him to close  it.
Whilst his complaint was waiting  for allocation to an ombudsman,  Mr E sent to us further 
Barclays statements showing fees and charges  accruing  on the account. He said this 
showed that Barclays had taken no notice  of his plea to close the account. He remained 
concerned that it might  start a legal action against him for non-payment.  
The complaint then came to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see that Mr E is very frustrated  that 
Barclays hasnt closed  the account  it opened in error. Thats  understandable. But Im afraid 
Im going  to have  to disappoint him, as Im not going to ask Barclays  to do anything more  
than it offered when  the complaint came to our service. Im sorry to disappoint Mr E. 
Its clear that Barclays mistakenly  opened a SIPP in Mr Es name when it introduced  a new 
platform in August 2017. Barclays  said this occurred because Mr E had some de-listed 
shares in his SIPP account  that Barclays still held on his behalf  after he closed it. As I 
understand it, the rules applying to SIPPs make  it difficult to transfer  assets such  as shares 
from a SIPP  to the account  holder  where a market value for the account holder to pay in 
exchange for the shares cant be established. 
And because the shares in question were  in a company  that had been de-listed from a stock 
exchange, they werent readily tradable  in other words, a buyer for the shares couldnt 
easily be found. So the shares  remained an asset  of Mr Es original SIPP.  
Although Barclays wrote  to Mr E to say it had closed his original SIPP, the existence of the 
shares meant it couldnt formally do so  as the handling of the shares was unresolved. 
Barclays also had cash of £99.12 after the closure  of Mr Es SIPP,  which for some reason 
Mr E wasnt  given the option to draw out of the SIPP. It may be that Barclays  received the 
money after the account closure, but I dont know whether this had been  discussed with 
Mr E. 
Ref: DRN25374183Barclays has said that these remaining assets were why a new SIPP  was opened in error, 
and the remainder of the cash (after a fee of £46.50 was deducted) and the shares were 
placed in it. And once  that occurred, fees and charges started  accruing on the account, 
running down  the cash  balance. 
Mr E says he contacted  Barclays many  times  trying  to get the account  closed. Ive no reason 
to doubt him. And when he did make a written complaint, Im not convinced that Barclays 
offer at that time was entirely satisfactory. It seems  to me that Barclays initial  response  to his 
complaint, made in its final response letter of 10 April 2018,  assumed that it was right that Mr 
E had to comply with the processes it had in place for the new SIPP,  such as adding a 
nominated bank account, and providing proof of identity in the form of a bank statement, 
before it could pay the sum due to him from the SIPP to that bank account. And even then 
he would  need  to contact Barclays to arrange for the account closure and the disposition of 
the shares. 
As Mr E says,  this was a SIPP opened in error  on the new platform  by Barclays. I dont think 
it was altogether reasonable of Barclays to require all of these  steps. When Mr E brought  his 
complaint to us it indicated that it could refund the fees into the account, close  it, and issue  a 
cheque to Mr E for the amount due to him, and presumably, the compensation if Mr E chose 
to accept it. Barclays has now confirmed  that the shares in the de-listed company could 
continue to be held by Barclays unless and until the shares became tradeable.  
That seems  to me to be a much more suitable  way to resolve the complaint. And I will tell 
Barclays to take those steps in my final decision on this complaint. This minimises the 
inconvenience for Mr E in the new SIPP closure arrangements, given he is unwilling to 
provide a copy of his bank statement to Barclays and there is little need  for a nominated 
bank account  in the circumstances.
I still need to determine  how much  compensation Mr E should receive for his distress and 
inconvenience. As I said at the beginning of my findings, I think the current  offer from 
Barclays is fair, and I wont be asking it to do anything more that its offered. Mr E has been  
offered £250 compensation.  This includes the £46.50 fee that was deducted before the new 
SIPP was opened.  This is because it cant be refunded to the new SIPP  account, for 
administrative reasons.
Ive no doubt that Mr E has experienced stress  and inconvenience.  He tells us that hes been 
concerned that Barclays would  take legal action against him for unpaid fees, and hes been  
put to the trouble of writing to, and calling, Barclays, due to its error in opening the account. 
He says that the offer doesnt recognise  the time hes had to spend, and the stress. I 
appreciate his strength of feeling,  but I still think the offer is a fair one. 
Its unfortunate that the statements continued to be issued even after Barclays were aware 
that the new SIPP account had been opened  in error. But the bank  never suggested in any 
of its correspondence  with him that it would take legal  action or any other action to recover 
the fees due once the account balance had fallen to zero.  And Im afraid that we dont 
compensate consumers for their time in the way Mr E requests,  so Im not going  to tell 
Barclays to pay him £500 for each letter he has written, although I understand the frustration  
that led to this demand. Barclays has offered more than a token sum in recognition  of the 
stress and inconvenience suffered by Mr E, and Im not going to tell it to pay him any more 
compensation than it has already offered.
Barclays has also offered to administer the de-listed shares for an indefinite  period without  
fee or charge until the shares can be disposed of. And its confirmed that the fee charged by 
Ref: DRN25374184the third party  stockbroker is no longer being  applied as the account is now in a suspended  
state. However in the event that any further  fees are mistakenly deducted, Barclays will need  
to ensure in the settlement of this complaint that they are reversed.
 So although  it will disappoint Mr E, Im not going  to ask it to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  Plc must:
(a)Waive any fees and charges that have  been  taken from or charged to Mr Es new 
SIPP account and restore the new SIPP account balance  to £52.62; 
(b)Close the new SIPP account and pay the amount due to Mr E;
(c)Pay Mr E £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience,  this amount 
being inclusive  of the fee of £46.50 deducted from his cash  holdings before the 
new SIPP was opened; and
(d)Make  a combined payment to Mr E of the sums due from b) and c) above.
I would remind both parties that Barclays  has offered to retain the delisted shares on Mr Es 
behalf, but it has also indicated that its open  to discussion about alternative options.  As I 
believe Mr E and Barclays are yet to have  that discussion I cant  comment on what  Mr Es 
options are or require  Barclays to take specific action in relation to the shares.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2537418