K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1994. Mr C says National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think NatWest  made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. I say this because despite the passage of time,  NatWest has provided  a copy 
of the separate PPI application  Mr C completed  to take out PPI. 
This was a separate and distinct application  from any lending  application  Mr C might 
have also completed  around the time.  By having to complete and sign this separate 
application, Im not persuaded  that Mr C would have been  under the impression  that he 
had to have PPI. Im mindful too that according  to NatWest Mr C amended his policy in 
1998 to increase the amount of benefit it provided.  I think this action supports the view 
that Mr C chose to take out the policy because he was interested  in the cover  it provided. 
So taking everything into account, I think its likely Mr C chose to take out PPI and did so 
without undue pressure.
Ref: DRN27643682Both Mr C and NatWest agree that NatWest  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr C - so it 
didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr 
C enough clear  and timely information  so he could decide  for himself if it was right for 
him.
Given the limited available evidence I accept its possible  the information NatWest  gave 
Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been  albeit the application required 
Mr C to say what  monthly benefit he required.  But Ive found that he chose to take it out - 
so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt  fundamentally wrong for 
Mr C  for example  he was eligible for the cover and he wasnt  affected  by the significant 
exclusions on or limits to the cover. He also wasnt entitled to any enhanced sick pay and 
didnt have any other means  he could call on to make the repayments on his mortgage  
had he found  himself unable to work. So I think Mr C wouldve benefitted  from the policy 
had the insured risks become a reality. 
Mr C told us that bad backs were commonplace in his line of work. But in this case  there 
were no additional  restrictions on cover for back problems  or any greater evidential  
requirements for making a claim for this than any other disability claim. And it was the 
same for mental health conditions. 
Overall I dont think the policy was too dissimilar  to what Mr C reasonably  thought he was 
buying from the information  I can see he was given. And at around £13 a month  it also looks  
like it was affordable  so it seems  like it would  have provided a useful benefit in a difficult 
time, given  his circumstances at the time. And in those  circumstances  I dont think Mr C 
would have declined  the cover had NatWest done anything more.
Mr Cs representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant NatWest should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mr Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Cs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means  NatWest doesnt have to do anything  to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr Cs complaint  so I make no award.
Ref: DRN27643683Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2764368