K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained Starling Bank Limited is expecting  him to repay the debt created when  
payments were made  from his account  he didnt authorise.
background
On 21 November 2018 Mr E opened  a new account with Starling. On 28 November Mr E 
contacted Starling as he believed thered been fraudulent activity on his account. Four new 
payees had been set up and payments  of £300, £300 and £150 had been made to three of 
them. Initially a £750 overdraft had been  created  on Mr Es account but this had been  
converted to a loan for £675.
Starling couldnt  see how someone could have  accessed Mr Es account  without  him being 
involved in some way. After hed re-set  his password at 22:20 on 26 November, it had only 
been 21 minutes before a new device had accessed  his account. This would have involved a 
text to be sent to Mr Es registered number. Overall  Starling  felt Mr E had authorised  this 
access and held him liable for the debt that had been created.
Mr E brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. There was no doubt Mr E had re-set his password  
on 26 November: he sent a new video request. This matched his original video  when he first 
opened the account. Then whoever had set up the new device  had used the original 
authentication video Mr E had used when opening  his account; along  with additional ID to 
show this request was Mr Es. Our investigator  felt there was no indication  how someone  
else could have known  Mr Es details without his involvement. He wasnt  going  to uphold 
Mr Es complaint.
Mr E disagreed with this outcome.  Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These  primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise  payments  themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply  but nothing thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making 
here. So when  we look at whether a bank  has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud 
complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made  the transactions  
themselves or allowed  them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Starling and Mr E have shared with us. 
Ref: DRN20948872Firstly I can see the timeline of events, each  partys testimony and how the transactions  
were made were covered in our investigators  view of 29 November 2019.  I dont  intend  to 
repeat everything  that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the 
basis of my decision. I can reassure Mr E and Starling Ive read the file thoroughly.
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
Mr E had only opened this account  a few days earlier  and no transactions had taken 
place. Ive seen  the video used  to authenticate the account-opening. This is the same 
person who then changed the account  password on 26 November.
Mr E has confirmed  this was him (and it matches  the other ID provided). Mr E has 
suggested he changed his password because he thought  someone was trying to 
access his account without his authority.
Theres no doubt a different  iPhone was set up to access  the account only 21 
minutes later. The information Starling holds about this iPhone  shows  it was a 
different model  to the one Mr E had used only 21 minutes earlier.
I think its most likely  someone other  than Mr E was accessing the account. Its 
unusual  to say the least  to update a password and then change  phones just very 
shortly afterwards.
The different iPhone models used also strike me as odd. Its unlikely  someone  who 
had the model  Mr E used, would then start using the other  model on a whim. Thats 
not the phone upgrade most 20-year olds would go for.
Interestingly the new payees being  set up and the payments themselves dont occur 
for another  two days. This suggests whoever  was doing this didnt expect to be 
disturbed as there doesnt  seem to have been  any urgency in transferring funds 
immediately. That is not generally  what youd expect when we see fraud of this 
nature.
All the correct authentication was used so theres no doubt whoever was accessing  
Mr Es account knew the new password.
The test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity for the account details to be 
compromised; rather whether the payment services user (Mr E in this case) authorised  these 
transactions. Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got hold of Mr Es 
details, made these transactions or to investigate who that potential  fraudster  may be. 
However I do need to believe there are scenarios which explain how someone could have 
used Mr Es account details without  his consent.  This is difficult when I note what took place 
as the facts above show. I cant see how someone would have known his new password or 
 in fact as the account itself was so new that Mr E even  held an account with Starling  
unless hed shared this information.
During my review of this complaint, I did consider  alternative scenarios  around what  could 
have happened  here. This included whether the submission of Mr Es request to change the 
password triggered  something to have taken  place. But I have dismissed this as this 
suggests a completely unknown third party was able to access Mr Es account. In that case  
Id have to wonder how they knew other information  about Mr E and his account. And I note 
that only £750 was then transferred to three  other parties.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I believe Mr E authorised these transactions. This 
doesnt mean he made them  himself  which as I say above I dont believe is the case  but 
I do believe he knew about and authorised  them. I wont  be asking Starling to do anything 
further.
Ref: DRN20948873I appreciate Mr E is not going  to agree with this outcome but overall based on the evidence I 
think this is the most likely scenario.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Es complaint against 
Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2094887