K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs B say Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say that they dont recall any discussion with Nationwide  about the PPI and 
didnt knowingly take it out with their mortgage   only becoming  aware  of it in 2013, at which  
point they decided to cancel it. 
But Ive seen a copy of their mortgage  application.  I can see there is a separate section for 
PPI and under we would like the following protection for our mortgage  payments Mr and 
Mrs Bs details  have been completed showing they wished to take accident, sickness and 
unemployment (ASU) cover, the amount of cover they required, and how they wanted the 
benefit to be split between them (50/50). Mr and Mrs B have signed the application  in 
agreement with its contents. This suggests  to me that there  was some discussion with 
Nationwide about  the PPI at the time. And if it was something they didnt want I would have 
expected them to have questioned this when they read over the application before signing.  
Ive also seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  product confirmation document which 
under the bold heading Your decision regarding Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance it 
again details Mr and Mrs B have decided to proceed with ASU cover. Again, this is signed 
by both Mr and Mrs B and indicates  that they had a choice about  the PPI and that they 
chose to take it. Again if its something  they hadnt  wanted I would  have expected them  to 
have asked Nationwide about it at the time. 
Nationwide have provided me with a number of other documents sent to Mr and Mrs B over 
the years  including their mortgage offer  which I can see sets out the cost of the PPI (and 
that the policy was free for the first twelve months), mortgage statements showing PPI 
payments as well as insurance schedules and reviews. 
So, overall, I think Mr and Mrs B would have been aware that they had taken out PPI  even  
if they cant remember this now. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it didnt  have to check  if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs B got the information they needed to 
decide if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like 
they were affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Ref: DRN26609352I can see that Mr B was self-employed at the time. But from what I know  about this policy   
the steps Mr B, as someone who was self-employed, would have to take to make  an 
unemployment claim were different to someone who was employed (this is to be expected).  
But I dont think it would  have been harder for him to make a claim than someone who was 
employed.
Mrs B says she had some  sick pay from her employer.  But this policy  couldve paid out on 
top of anything she received from her employer and for potentially  longer than she wouldve 
received her full rate of pay. And being  self-employed Mr B didnt have  any sick or 
redundancy pay cover. Ive also thought about the savings they say they had. But I have to 
consider they didnt  want to use this money to reduce the amount they borrowed on their 
mortgage. So it seems  to me they wanted  to keep these savings intact  and having  the PPI 
policy would have further protected them. So, overall, I think  the PPI would have been useful 
for them if something went wrong. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. Mr and Mrs B were taking on a large  and long term 
financial commitment, which was secured on their home. So the effects of not keeping  up 
with the repayments could  have  been  serious for them. And I think  having the security that 
their repayments wouldve  been made if they were  unable to work  is likely to have been 
important to them. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put them  off 
taking out the cover.
 
Ive thought about whether Nationwide needs to give Mr and Mrs B some  of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance  dont apply to certain  
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Nationwide 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2660935