K820x#14complaint
The Estate of Mr H complains about  the products held with Santander  UK Plc.
background
The Estate is represented in this complaint by Mr H. He contacted Santander about his late 
fathers investment  in a 2-year fixed bond. It had a very poor rate of interest. And he felt 
Santander shouldnt  have offered the bond to a partially-sighted 95-year old person. The 
bank mustve had something  that offered a better interest rate rather  than rolling the money 
into another poor investment.
Mr H said his fathers money wouldve had reduced in value in the ten years  itd been with 
Santander. So he wants the estate reimbursing with lost interest.  And he doesnt  want  the 
bank to apply  any redemption charges.
Santander explained it sent out notifications to customers  before bonds  matured. But it didnt 
offer any advice when  new savings bonds  were opened. Santander  said its letter  stated what 
would happen  to the proceeds at maturity  if it didnt receive any new instructions. And its 
current interest rates were available on its website and in branches for customers to 
compare.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Santanders response. So he contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He said he could only look at whatd happened in the last 
six years. And he explained the role of our service  was to see whether Santander had made  
an error or acted unreasonably and if so what it needed to do to put things right.
He could see the accounts held by the late Mr H had been opened on a non-advisory basis.  
They were  cash-based deposit accounts  not investment risk products. So Mr H wouldve 
needed to decide for himself which products were suitable. And hed not seen anything  to 
suggest the accounts werent the ones Mr H had wanted at that time.  Although  there may 
have been better products available Santander wasnt able to make suggestions or transfer 
maturing bonds  to other products without  the customers  authority.  And there was nothing  to 
suggest Santander was aware Mr H was partially sighted and or had special requirements 
that it should taken into account.
Mr H didnt agree. He felt Santander had been  dishonest in their offering to the late Mr H. 
The bank shouldve  operated an appropriate level of due diligence. So hes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for the same reasons. 
I can understand how upsetting this mustve been  for Mr H. He is dealing with his late 
fathers estate. And after reviewing the products he held with Santander he felt they werent  
suitable for a person of his age. The bank shouldve offered  different  products. So Ive 
looked very carefully at everything Mr H has said. And whether or not Santander offered his 
father a poor service or made any mistakes.
Ref: DRN22506842Mr H held a number of instant saver, fixed rate bonds and stepped  bonds.  These  were  all 
cash-based accounts  designed to offer a great deal of security with a relatively low level of 
return in the form of interest  payments. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the accounts. And none of the products  carry an 
investment risk that requires a suitability assessment and advice. They  are selected by the 
customer. No advice is given by Santander and no information is offered about whether 
better options might be available. Its the responsibility of the customer  to decide whether  or 
not to open the account.
Banks and building societies are required  to display their current interest rates within  
branches and online  so that customers can make  informed  decisions. I do appreciate that 
Mr H was an elderly gentleman. But it wasnt Santanders responsibility to manage  his 
finances unless  specifically asked to. That wasnt within the terms and conditions of the 
types of account  Mr H held with the bank. And Ive not seen anything to suggest  Santander  
was aware Mr H was partially sighted and might need additional  support or alternate 
arrangements.
The late Mr H had a two-year fixed rate bond. And Mr H feels  it was inappropriate for a 
95-year old person to be invested in such a product  especially when he considered  the 
interest rate to be too low. But Ive not seen anything to suggest Santander was responsible 
for Mr H placing his money in this type of bond. It wouldve been Mr Hs decision to do so. 
And when  the previous bond  matured the money wouldve been re-invested  in a similar 
product for a further two years unless Mr H contacted the bank before the maturity date.
I do understand why Mr H feels someone at Santander shouldve  looked at his fathers  
accounts and suggested alternative products. But that simply wasnt  Santanders 
responsibility. It hadnt been asked to manage his account. And no one had a power of 
attorney over Mr Hs affairs so they could do so on his behalf.  
I realise the estate  will be disappointed with this outcome. But I cant  say Santander has 
done anything  wrong. Mr H had selected the products without input or advice from 
Santander. And the terms of the fixed bonds meant  the money would be rolled  over unless 
the customer requested  otherwise. Santanders  role was to ensure customers  were  provided 
with suitable information  either in branches, leaflets or online  so they could make  their 
own decisions. But it wasnt Santanders  role to assess suitability.
Mr H feels the value  of the accounts has dropped in real terms. But, as Ive explained, it 
wasnt the banks  duty to manage the accounts.  So it wouldnt be fair to hold Santander 
responsible for any comparison  with other  products.
While this isnt the result Mr H wanted I hope this shows I have fully investigated the 
complaint and the reasons behind  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the Estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2019.
Ref: DRN2250684