K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K say GE Money Home Lending  Limited  mis-sold  them  a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I recently issued my provisional  decision on this complaint, which  included  the following:
This complaints  about  a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2006. 
Mr and Mrs K applied  for the PPI during a meeting.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. GE Money disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ks case. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld because  Mrs K had a pre-existing 
medical condition,  which meant the PPI policy sold to Mr and Mrs K was unsuitable.
I can see that, according to the fact find completed by GE Moneys  adviser in May 2006, 
Mr and Mrs K both declared theyd suffered from a psychiatric illness or nervous disorder 
including stress reactions. The adviser added  just below that Mr K is on medication  for 
depression and that Mrs K has been  on medication for depression   which I take to mean  
that Mr Ks treatment was ongoing at the time of the sale whereas  Mrs K was no longer 
receiving treatment by then.
More recently, we asked  for clarification as to why Mrs K hadnt  mentioned  her condition  
(Mr K hadnt either) when  asked in the submissions  to us. Her representative said they 
spoke to Mrs K who said the condition  coincided with a personal  tragedy she and Mr K had 
suffered at the time and that they tried not to think about it as it was a difficult time for them.  
They added this all happened in mid-1996.  
Im very sorry to have  to bring  up these  matters in this decision but I do believe they, and the 
timing of these events, are important  to the overall  outcome of Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. I 
say that because Ive checked the policy terms to see how claims are affected by pre-
existing medical conditions. The policy terms say, among other  things, they exclude claims 
for conditions the insured knew about at the start date or had seen a doctor  for in the 12-
month period  leading  up to the start date.
The terms go on to say that claims will be accepted where there  have been no further 
symptoms and the insured hasnt consulted a doctor, or received treatment, for the condition  
in the 12-months prior to any claim. 
Theres no evidence to suggest Mrs K was undergoing any treatment, or was consulting  a 
doctor, for the condition much beyond 1996, if at all. As such, I think  it unlikely a claim for 
Ref: DRN28197882depression made by Mrs K would have been  excluded as a pre-existing medical  condition.  
So I dont  think GE Moneys advice  on this aspect was inappropriate for Mr and Mrs K.
Ive looked at how the sale was carried out overall but havent seen anything that would lead 
me to believe the PPI was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs K. For example, Ive seen clear  evidence 
to show they were given  a choice about  taking PPI and that they decided to go ahead  with it. 
And, from what  I know about their circumstances  in 2006:
Mrs K was eligible  for the cover. And she wasnt affected by any of the other  
exclusions to, or limits  on, the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs K seem  to have had a need  for the cover  Mrs K had little or no work 
benefits or other means she could have relied on if she wasnt working due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment. On the other  hand, the PPI benefits were 
considerable and would have  paid out for a significant period of time if needed.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the PPI was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs K. And the 
policy was flexible  in that they could have cancelled it any time if they decided  they 
no longer wanted it.
 
GE Money  also had to ensure  it gave Mr and Mrs K clear information  about the PPI to allow 
them to make an informed  decision about whether to take it. As Ive said, I think  that Mr and 
Mrs K chose to take it out  so it looks  like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it 
would have provided useful and affordable protection for them if something went wrong. So 
I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr and Mrs K have lost out because of how 
GE Money  sold them the PPI.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties  to reply with any further  comments or evidence  they might  have before I 
looked into the complaint again.
GE Money  had nothing  further to add to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs K didnt provide 
any more comments or evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Having done so, and bearing  in mind the parties responses (or lack of) to my provisional 
decision, I see no reason  to reach  a different decision now.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN28197883Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.  
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2819788