K820x#14complaint
Ms S has complained about  the service she received from AXA PPP Healthcare Limited 
(AXA) when  making a claim.
background
Ms S has private medical insurance with AXA. In February 2018 she contacted the 
underwriter as she wanted to make  a claim on her policy. She called AXA and explained to 
the representative she spoke to that she was currently  signed  off work by her GP for anxiety 
and stress  and that she wanted to arrange to see a therapist.  
Ms S was advised  that she would need a referral from her GP and would be asked  to 
provide some more  information regarding the type of therapist that she wanted to see as 
there were different kinds available. 
The following  day Ms S called AXA back as she had spoken to her GP again and had been 
given a general referral.  However the person she spoke to said AXA would need further 
clarification on who her GP wanted  her to speak  to. She was advised to go back to her GP 
again and ask for a list of recommended therapists and call back. The representative 
explained that once AXA had this information  it would be able to confirm  whether or not 
Ms S could make a claim under her policy. 
Ms S asked why this hadnt been clarified the day before as she had already been to see her 
GP once. She explained she was suffering from anxiety and not getting clear  information 
was making the situation worse for her. She made a complaint about the information she 
had been given in the previous call. 
Ms S received a call back that day from a senior  representative to discuss  her complaint  and 
was given clearer information regarding what she needed to do and why. The representative 
agreed to send Ms S some forms and information via email  to help her find a therapist that 
would be able to help.
Unfortunately there were  some issues with the online portal  that AXA customers normally 
use to access this type of information securely. Ms S online account was registered  to her 
work email and because  she wasnt in work  she couldnt access  the information.  She had to 
call AXA back a number of times to try to get the information. There were a total of six calls 
between Ms S and AXA that day, before she had received all the relevant information to her 
personal email address  and could arrange  an appointment with a therapist. 
AXA apologised for the problems Ms S had in accessing help via her policy. It agreed that in 
the second call the information she had been given  wasnt clear.  It apologised  to Ms S and 
offered her £50 in compensation  for the distress caused by the problems she had 
experienced. 
Ms S responded by saying that £50 wasnt adequate compensation.  She explained how 
distressed she had been and how much this had impacted her. She also highlighted the fact 
she had an expensive policy and paid a high premium every  month.  
One of our investigators  looked into Ms S complaint already. She agreed  that AXA had 
given Ms S unclear information when she had called back  the second time. However she felt 
that as AXA managed to resolve  the problem for Ms S within a day that the £50 was 
Ref: DRN28490552sufficient compensation.  Ms S disagreed with her findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review her complaint.   
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to all the phone calls between Ms S and the various AXA representatives that 
she spoke to on both days. I agree that the information she was given  could have been  
clearer. I also appreciate  how difficult it must  have  been for Ms S given the nature of her 
illness at the time.  
However, having listened to these calls I cant say that all the problems Ms S experienced 
that day were the result  of incorrect information. The information  she was given on the first 
call, which  lasted less than five minutes, outlined the information  Ms S needed  from her GP 
to access care via her policy. When she called back the next day the first person she spoke 
to gave her some incorrect and unclear information.  This call followed by an incoming call 
from the senior representative who apologised for the confusion caused by the second  call 
and clearly explained the next steps to Ms S.
The next call Ms S received was to confirm that she could access  treatment through her 
policy and what that would look like in regards to frequency and maximum number of 
sessions that would be available.
The remaining  calls were all in relation to the problems Ms S had with accessing her online 
account to get the information  she needed  to arrange an appointment with an approved  
therapist. 
Looking at the overall experience I understand why Ms S found it so frustrating and I 
understand that it must  have  been distressing for her given she wasnt  feeling well to begin  
with. However I need to consider what AXA was responsible for in order  to establish  whether 
or not the offer of compensation made is reasonable. 
Ms S was given incorrect information. However that issue was resolved in as timely a 
manner as possible. I say this because  Ms S received a call back from the senior 
representative the same day and ultimately her claim  was progressed and she was given 
names of therapists that she could speak  to under her policy.
The issues  she experienced accessing her online account however  dont  seem  to be the 
result of any failing  on the part of AXA. It was unfortunate that Ms S had registered her 
account with her work email address. This seems  to be the reason why it wasnt possible for 
her to get the information she needed  via the online portal. Instead the AXA representative 
Ms S spoke to sent everything to her personal email address  and then called back later to 
make sure she had received everything  she needed.  
I do appreciate how frustrating and time consuming the experience  was for Ms S. But I think  
that the representatives that spoke to her tried to help her as quickly as they could. I know  a 
mistake was made and that it had an impact on Ms S but AXA has apologised for this and 
did its best to rectify the issue as quickly as possible. And while I accept that Ms S pays high 
premium for her policy  compensation for mistakes isnt based  on the cost of the policy but 
Ref: DRN28490553rather the impact of the mistake. And while the mistake  was upsetting for Ms S it ultimately  
didnt impact her ability to progress her claim or access the care she needed. 
So, having  taken everything into consideration, I think the offer of compensation made  by 
AXA is reasonable. And I wont  be asking it to increase it. I know this isnt the outcome Ms S 
wanted but I hope she understands  why Ive reached the conclusions  that I have.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Ms S complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2849055