K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Revolut Ltd will not refund a disputed transaction made on his account  
card.
background
Mr B says he was away on holiday between 22 September  2016 and 29 September  2016.  
Whilst abroad, he topped up and used his Revolut  Card.  He  says it works on a pay as you 
go principle and has no credit facility.  He  regularly monitored his balance and topped up 
the card as and when  required.  However, he says this wasnt the only card he used.
Around a year after his holiday, he noticed a debit  on his card for just over £175.   The  
payment was made to P.  It is accepted  by all that P is the place where Mr B stayed whilst 
he was on holiday a year earlier.
When Mr B queried this transaction with Revolut, it told him that the payment had actually 
been made on 22 September 2016.   It had shown as pending on his account  but due to a 
system error, it had reverted back to him.  Revolut had incurred the expense instead by 
honouring the payment  with the merchant.  Essentially, it told him that it was just taking back  
a debt that was owed.
Mr B disagreed.  He  said he couldnt recall making the payment and in any event, Revolut  
was under a duty to process  payments in a reasonable time.   He wanted to complain.
Revolut did not uphold his complaint so he came  to this service.
Initially, our adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint.   He said that Revolut could not evidence 
that the transaction was authorised by him.  However, Revolut submitted further evidence to 
show that the magnetic strip on Mr Bs card was used to make the transaction.  On this 
basis, our adjudicator rejected his complaint  and he asked for an ombudsmans  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I cannot 
uphold Mr Bs complaint  either. My reasons, generally speaking,  are very much the same as 
the adjudicators  second view and I cant see that I can add much more.
Generally, Revolut can hold Mr B liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised it himself.  If it is more likely than not 
that he didnt,  Revolut must refund  it.
On balance, I think it is more than likely that Mr B made this transaction.   I say that for the 
following reasons:
-The transaction was made in favour of P  the hotel where  Mr B accepts he stayed  at 
during his holiday;
-It was made on the day of his arrival
-Revolut has shown  that it was the magnetic strip on Mr Bs card which was used to 
authenticate the transaction
Ref: DRN27584382-Mr B has never submitted that the card was in someone elses  possession  on that 
day
I accept that due to the passage of time, Mr Bs memory may have faded and of course, he 
may no longer  remember a transaction which he made over three years ago.  But he told 
this service that he regularly checked his account and balance  so I think  he would have 
seen the transaction pending and then it being reverted back to him.
So, in the circumstances, I think it is fair and reasonable for Revolut to have  concluded that 
Mr B made this transaction  and I will not be asking it to refund  the amount to him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2758438