K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about two instalment loans he took with Elevate Credit International 
Limited trading  Sunny.  Mr H says these  loans were unaffordable.
background
Sunny provided  Mr H with two instalment  loans  between July 2018  and August 2018. 
LoanDate  
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest  
monthly 
repayment
1 09/07/2018balance 
outstanding6 £450.00 £139.13
2 31/08/2018balance 
outstanding6 £100.00 £171.88*
*As Mr H took the second loan whilst  the first was still outstanding, the highest monthly 
payment is made up of £139.13 for the first loan and £32.75 for the second  loan.
Our adjudicator thought Sunny hadnt done anything wrong when providing Mr H with loans 
1 and 2. Mr H disagreed  with this so the case was passed to me  an ombudsman   for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the law, any relevant
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought  about all of this, I dont  think Sunny has treated Mr H unfairly or that 
it should pay him compensation. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr H and Id 
like to explain why I think this is the case.
Mr H was provided with high-interest loans, intended  for short-term use. So Sunny needed  to 
make sure that it didnt  provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what  this means is that Sunny 
needed to carry  out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending  was 
sustainable for Mr H before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Ref: DRN29126472In his complaint  Mr H says that Sunny didnt lend to him responsibly because  he was unable  
to afford his monthly  bills after he had taken out the loans. He also says that the lending  
meant he had to take out other short-term loans and he resorted to gambling. On the other 
hand, Sunny  says that it carried out adequate  checks  by gathering details of Mr Hs 
income and expenditure. And based  on this Sunny says it didnt see anything  to alert it to 
any sustainability or affordability  issues for the loans  it gave Mr H. 
Its important to note that when Mr H took out his first loan with Sunny it doesnt  seem that 
he had an existing relationship with them. The first loan was to be repaid over 6 instalments 
of around £139.  Hed told Sunny that his monthly income  was around £3,200. Loan 2 was 
taken out whilst loan 1 was still running  but was for a significantly smaller  amount. And 
together it meant  that Mr H was going to have to repay around  £172 per month. When Mr H 
applied for loan 2 Sunny  carried out similar checks as it did for Loan 1. And he said that his 
essential expenditure was £275, his housing  was £950 and his credit expenses were  £350  
totalling monthly outgoings in those three areas  of £1,575.   And I cant  see anything  to 
suggest that Sunny had reason to question the information it had about Mr H.  
Looking at the monthly repayments in light of Mr Hs declared  disposable  income its difficult 
for me to conclude  that Sunny was wrong to decide  that the repayments would be affordable  
sustainably for Mr H. I note what he says about  these  loans forcing him into taking further 
loans. But I dont think there were signs which shouldve led Sunny to do more checks and 
Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that it acted irresponsibly in the 
circumstances of this case.  
Sunny has previously offered Mr H a 70% settlement of his outstanding balance  with it which  
he couldve  taken up within 30 days.  Mr H didnt take this offer up at the time, but Sunny has 
confirmed Mr H can contact it directly  to see if it can re-issue the offer.  Although I'm not 
upholding Mr Hs complaint and cant require Sunny to repeat the offer to settle, I would 
remind Sunny of its obligation to treat its customers fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold this complaint against Elevate Credit  
International Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2912647