K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-sold  
her a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
Ms W bought a regular  premium MPPI  policy in May 1997. Neither party  can be sure where 
the policy was sold.
Ms W says there was no need  to take PPI out and she believes Halifax attached  PPI to her 
mortgage without  her knowledge.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms Ws complaint. As she doesnt  agree with the adjudicators  
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Ms Ws complaint because of the following reasons:
Ms W says Halifax attached PPI to her mortgage  without her knowledge. 
I acknowledge everything Ms W has said. I cant be sure exactly  what was discussed  
between Ms W and Halifax  when the policy was sold. Im also mindful  that the sale 
took place many  years  ago, and that detailed  recollections of what happened  can 
fade over time.
Halifax hasnt provided  much documentation  from the time the policy was sold.  Thats 
not surprising  given the time thats passed,  and its similar  to some  other cases  Ive 
seen. 
Without anything  else to support what Ms W has told me, and based on what I know 
of sales conducted  by Halifax during that time, I cant safely  conclude that Halifax  
didnt make her aware that the policy  was optional. 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI to Ms W during the meeting 
and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business,  I will proceed  that this 
was the case.  So as it did recommend  the policy to Ms W, it had to ensure during the 
sale that the policy was suitable for her needs. 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy  was 
unsuitable for Ms W based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. Ms W 
says she would  have  been able to use her 6 months full and 6 months  half sick pay 
but the MPPI  policy would have paid in addition to any provisions  she would have 
had and for longer. So the benefit  would have been  of use to Ms W during a difficult  
Ref: DRN21618892time as she could have  used her provisions to pay for other expenses.  I think, on 
balance, Ms W had a need  for this cover  based  on her circumstances at the date of 
sale, for any extended period of unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt  find any 
other reason such as a significant  or limiting term that would  make  the policy  
unsuitable for her either.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  policy  
that Ms W took out but even  though  it has provided  information detailing the cover 
and how much it cost, I cannot  be sure that these costs were disclosed  to Ms W in a 
clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly I 
dont think Ms W would  have  done anything different and decided  against having the 
policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Ms W wouldve been  affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold Ms Ws 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2161889