K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  the policy in 2008  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in-branch
The policy provided  cover  for Mr H only for accident,  sickness,  and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £870 a month  towards Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost around £45 a month. 
At the time,  Mr H was employed  as a delivery driver.  He has told us he was not entitled to 
any (enhanced) sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying their mortgage  should 
he be unable  to work. Mr H has said he was in good health at the time of the sale.  
Because Mrs H wasnt covered by the policy Ive not set out her circumstances here.
YBS has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account started in 2008. 
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs H 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Hs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means YBS should have told 
Mr and Mrs H about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs H and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
Ref: DRN28299262The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage. That means  the unfair relationship provisions set out in 
s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of 
that Act and the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA about  the handling of complaints  
about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin  judgment, arent applicable.
This sale took place  in 2008 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
Ref: DRN28299263In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
YBS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so YBS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether YBS gave  Mr and Mrs H sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
Ref: DRN28299264including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs H 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and YBS,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  Mr and Mrs H have said they were 
told they needed to have  the policy to cover  the mortgage.
YBS has provided some of the paperwork  from the time of the sale including Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage application. Looking at this I can see that on page  nine Mr and Mrs H were asked 
to indicate by ticking one of two boxes  Yes  or No  whether  they were  interested in PPI 
or not. And there is a tick in the Yes  box.
YBS has also provided a copy  of Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage offer letter. And this said that 
You are not obliged to take out any insurance  through YBS. And that only buildings 
insurance was a condition of the mortgage. Because of the important nature of this 
document, if what was written here didnt reflect  what Mr and Mrs H understood from their 
meeting with the representative then I wouldve expected them  to have queried  things  at the 
time and before the mortgage started.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs H knew  the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did YBS provide advice?
YBS says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr and Mrs H disagree. Looking  at what  
happened when  YBS sold Mr and Mrs H the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice  
Ive not seen enough to persuade  me that YBS considered Mr and Mrs Hs individual  needs  
and circumstances  and recommended  the cover as being right for them. 
This means  YBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs H. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr and Mrs H to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Ref: DRN28299265Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr H 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment.)  Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr and Mrs H would have taken out the policy  without 
any sense of what the policy was for.
I also think, on balance,  Mr and Mrs H understood the cost and benefit  before they agreed  to 
go ahead   and certainly before the policy started. I say this because YBS has provided  a 
PPI illustration document, which  clearly set out these  things  and its dated  the same  day as 
they signed their mortgage application.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  YBS gave sufficient 
information the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs H agreed to take out the policy.  
So given the available  evidence I dont think YBS gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate 
and timely  information  to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out 
the policy, including drawing their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points about  the requirements  on a business  when providing information 
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Hs. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that YBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did YBS shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs H? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs H suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found YBS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs H. 
Ref: DRN28299266So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs 
H suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs H would have still taken out the policy, had YBS done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs H say they would not have taken  it out and believe that I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs H had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr H being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs H chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs H thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs H have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs H were given  about  the cost and the benefit was, in my view, 
clear. But the information  about other  aspects  of the policy, such  as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr and Mrs H knew  
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy,  or anything 
hed arranged to see a doctor  about  in the 12 months before the start date (subject  to 
a time limit);  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr H 
wasnt a permanent employee; 
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr H be unable  to 
do his own job or any paid work which his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified them to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs H pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy was not as good as they thought and they might  have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr H was eligible  for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved beneficial  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  they 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr H didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and he was in permanent  employment. So, I still think  they had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN28299267Despite Mr and Mrs Hs representative making  arguments about exclusions and limitations 
on claims relating to back pain and stress,  the policy didnt exclude back  or mental  health 
conditions or place any additional restrictions or more onerous evidential  requirements in the 
event of a claim on those grounds than would have applied to any other disability claim. And 
I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have expected to make  a disability claim on the policy 
without first providing some evidence  to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs H had known they could only claim for disability if Mr H was not only unable  to 
do his normal job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he might  
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what they would do. 
And I accept  it may have  given them pause  for thought  although  given Mr and Mrs H 
circumstances and the limited other means  Mr H had to make their repayments if he wasnt  
working, on balance,  I still think they would have  been interested in taking out the cover.
YBS may not have  told Mr and Mrs H that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they didnt have  any real means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs H would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr  H be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr H was made redundant, or unable  to work through  the 
accident or sickness. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not that Mr and 
Mrs H would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Hs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position Mr 
and Mrs H found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Ref: DRN28299268Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. Im not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken out 
the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude YBS should pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that would put them in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs H think YBS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of YBSs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave Mr and Mrs H, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2008  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find YBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs H and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that YBS had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2829926