K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them two monthly premium 
payment protection insurance policies  alongside  their mortgages.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a joint mortgage through Santander in 1998  at a meeting with 
the bank. The policy covered Mr P only, for accident, sickness  and unemployment.  The 
monthly cost of the PPI policy was £18.20 per month for £350 of cover.  The policy  
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per successful  claim.
In 2004, Mr and Mrs P took out further  borrowing. At that time, Mrs P was added to the 
policy, the premium was increased to cover the extra  borrowing and the cover was split 
equally between them.
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, concluding that the 1998 
policy wasnt mis-sold,  but the 2004 policy was. Santander didnt agree with our 
adjudicators view, so Mr and Mrs Ps complaint  has been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
1998 policy
Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs P that PPI was optional and they didnt have to 
have it. 
Santander no longer has a copy of Mr and Mrs Ps separate PPI application from the time of 
sale. Businesses often only keep records for six years. I have seen their mortgage  
application. They selected the box to say they wanted PPI. Mr and Mrs P say they were  led 
to believe they had to have PPI to get the mortgage.  The mortgage  application,  in my view, 
makes it clear that PPI is not compulsory. I cant know  what was discussed  between 
Santander and Mr and Mrs P, but taking everything together, I dont have enough to fairly 
conclude that they were  misled into believing they had to take PPI. So, I cant reasonably  
uphold their complaint  on this ground.
I think the policy was recommended to Mr and Mrs P. That means the bank had the 
extra responsibility of considering whether PPI was right for them in their particular 
circumstances. Santander also had to give Mr and Mrs P enough clear information  so 
that they could  decide  for themselves if they wanted to buy PPI.
As this was a joint mortgage, Ive taken into account Mrs Ps circumstances too when  
deciding this complaint. 
I cant see that the policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs P. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN29434622Mr P appeared eligible to take out the PPI given  his circumstances. It didnt 
look inappropriate that the cover was taken out in his name only. Mrs P said 
shed recently started a new job;
Mr P didnt  appear to be affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions 
in the policy  which  mightve made it harder for him to make  a successful 
claim. As he wasnt affected  by any of these, I dont  think having better 
information about them, wouldve led him to take a different decision and not 
take out the policy;
They had to pay a monthly premium  for the cover. PPI appeared affordable  
and the policy couldve been  stopped at any time without them losing out 
financially.
Mr P said he wouldve got some sick pay, but didnt say how long he wouldve 
been covered  for. The policy wouldve covered him for up to 12 months and 
this wouldve been on top of any benefits he had through work. So, I still think  
PPI couldve provided them  with a useful benefit to safeguard their home. 
So, I cant see that the policy was unsuitable  for them.  I cant see that with better  
information they wouldve made  a different decision  and not taken out the policy.  I say 
this because the policy was suitable  for them, appeared  affordable and I they 
appeared to want  it at the time they took out the cover. This means Santander  UK Plc 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
But Santander UK Plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P because:  
Santander UK Plc got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs P about that. Because Santander UK 
Plc didnt tell Mr and Mrs P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander UK Plc has paid back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
2004 policy amendment
Mr and Mrs P took out further borrowing in 2004. At this time, they increased the 
amount of their monthly premium to cover their additional borrowing. The monthly 
benefit was amended to increase the cover to £617.61 per month. They  added  Mrs P 
to the policy, and split the cover equally between Mr and Mrs P. 
Santander said that they didnt give Mr and Mrs P any advice about PPI at this time. But, it 
said, it had a fiduciary responsibility  to discuss with them increasing their cover, to cover the 
new amount of their new mortgage repayment.  I think given the other changes  made  to the 
cover, its likely that PPI was discussed  in more  detail than that. I think it more  likely that the 
policy was recommended to them.
Santander therefore had to consider whether the amended policy  was right for 
Mr and Mrs P. If any aspects werent  suitable  for their needs, Santander was under a duty 
to point that out. Santander also had to present  the information about  the insurance  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way, and to draw the main features of the policy  to 
Mr and Mrs Ps attention to allow them to make  an informed choice about  whether to buy 
PPI. 
Ref: DRN29434623Mrs P had a medical condition from birth. This led to her having two operations  and she had 
to see her doctor for regular check-ups. I think her condition was likely to have been 
excluded from cover. Ive not seen enough  to show that this was made clear to Mr and Mrs P 
in 2004. I think  had it been,  Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have  taken  out the policy  at all, or in the 
way they did. 
Santander said that Mrs P signed a declaration at the time saying that she was aware that 
the policy wouldnt cover  any pre-existing medical conditions. However, I cant  see from this 
that Mrs Ps personal situation was considered, such  that Mrs P wouldve understood the 
nature of the exclusion in relation to her. I think Santander was under a duty to consider her 
personal circumstances and make this clear.
So, I think the 2004 policy was mis-sold.
fair compensation
Santander UK Plc should put Mr and Mrs P in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out the 2004 policy.  The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  
already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr and Mrs P the amount they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs P made a successful  claim under the PPI policy,  Santander can take 
off what  they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.
As Santander UK Plc has already repaid a commission amount to Mr and Mrs P 
relating to the sale of the 2004 policy, that sum can be deducted  by Santander  to 
calculate fair compensation.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. Santander UK Plc must give Mr and 
Mrs P a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN29434624my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint in part.
The 1998  PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium  up to the date they took out the 2004 policy. I 
understand Santander has already done  this.
The 2004  was mis-sold,  so Santander  UK Plc should pay Mr and Mrs P fair compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2943462