K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  Virgin  Money plc ended her promotional  rate of interest.   
background
Miss S tells us she missed the payment date on her Virgin Money  credit  card account 
because its mobile  app wouldnt allow her to make  the payment. She unsuccessfully  tried 
other methods over the course of the next seven days. In the end she had to go into her 
bank by which time shed  missed the due date.  She would like Virgin Money to refund the 
late payment fees and interest and to reinstate her promotion rate. 
Virgin Money said it could  see Miss S had tried to make a payment on 4 April 2019 but failed  
the payment security  of her current account  provider. It said there wasnt any further  activity  
on the account and she didnt attempt  to contact it to complete the payment. So it said it 
hadnt done anything wrong  because itd acted in line with its terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt  think Virgin Money had made any error. In summary he said Miss S 
attempted to make  a payment in the week before  the payment due date. But she wasnt able 
to access the website because it wasnt compatible  with her phone. On 4 April she made two 
attempts to log in and on the second  attempt she failed her banks security system.  He said 
there was no dispute she tried to make the payment. But he said it would be unreasonable  to 
hold Virgin  Money  responsible for a failed  security check by another  bank. And he thought 
she hadnt exhausted all other options  to make her payment.
Miss S wasnt happy with this. She said she tried a number of options. She attempted to 
make payment a number  of times through an app. She then tried via Virgin Moneys website  
on her phone. She then tried to access  the website through her desktop. She then had to go 
to her bank  and make a payment  by BACS. She said Virgin Moneys app is not fit for 
purpose and it prevented  her from making  her payment. She said she tried three out of six of 
the options for making payment. And there  are numerous complaints on the internet about  
the app not working during the time she was trying to make payment. Shes also concerned 
about the ongoing interest Virgin Money  is charging her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at all the information Virgin Money has provided and I have considered  
carefully all the points Miss S has made but I dont have sufficient evidence to fairly conclude 
that Virgin Money was responsible for Miss Ss late payment.
Miss S said she made many attempts to make  her payment over the seven days  before it 
was due. In summary  she tried using her app on her mobile  phone, but that wasnt  working. 
She tried paying through the website but that wasnt compatible with her phone  and she tried 
using a desktop to access the website but it wouldnt accept the card she wanted  to use and 
which shed previously used without a problem. Virgin Money said it didnt have any record  
of Miss S contacting it to say she was having an issue with her payment.
Ref: DRN23596982Our investigator went back to Virgin Money after Miss S responded to his view letter. It said 
it wasnt aware of any nationwide problem about its app. And it said that it was her card 
issuer who was responsible for the failed  payment on 4 April 2019. So I cant  fairly find her 
late payment was the fault of Virgin Money. I know Miss S wont  agree with me but I think  
she wouldve been aware how important it was for her to make  this payment on time so it 
was reasonable  to expect her to phone  Virgin Money when she had problems paying by the 
due date. 
Virgin Money said itd waived one months  interest  as a gesture of goodwill.  I think thats fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances and Im not going to ask it to do anything  more.
Miss S says shes still being charged  interest despite clearing her account. Ive looked at her 
statements and it seems  to me that any interest Virgin Money has charged  is in line with its 
terms and conditions. But if Miss S is unhappy  about the interest  charged  she will need to 
make a formal complaint  to Virgin Money so it can investigate her complaint more  fully.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October  2019. 
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2359698