K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Astrenska Insurance  Limited  (Astrenska) have charged him for a 
personal accident policy which he stopped being eligible for once he turned 81 years  old.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 30 November 2018, a copy  of which is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained why I was intending 
not to uphold Mr Es complaint against  Astrenska. 
I invited all parties to let me have any further comments before I reached  a final decision.  
Astrenska has responded to the provisional  decision  to confirm  it has nothing further to add. 
Mr E has replied  and, having  repeated a sentence of my provisional decision,  says hes due 
a refund for the proportionate reduction  after he turned 64 years  old which didnt occur due 
to a system error.
my findings
Ive considered what Mr E has said alongside all the available evidence  and arguments 
already submitted to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision 
and for the same  reasons.  
Mr Es original  complaint  to our service is that he thought his cover for the personal  accident 
insurance ended on his 81st birthday but that the policy premiums were  still being taken from 
him. 
I understand that he is now saying - having  taken a part of the provisional decision out of its 
context - this means he is due a refund from when he turned 64 years old. This isnt the 
issue that he brought to Astrenska or this service. Even so, for the reasons set out in the 
provisional decision, the system error made  by Astrenska  when  it failed to reduce the 
premium occurred at each renewal after Mr E turned  80 years  old. Taking this into account, I 
believe that the offer made  by Astrenska to put things right is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
So Astrenska should, if it hasnt already done so, pay back  to Mr E the part of the premium 
he was overcharged  at each renewal since he turned 80, plus interest at 8% and £50 for any 
distress and inconvenience this had caused him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and so theres nothing that Astrenska 
Insurance Limited needs to do to put things right beyond what it has already offered to do.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Ref: DRN24523992Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN24523993extract decision dated 30 November 2018
background
Mr E has been a member  of a group, M, since 1980. Membership of the group has an annual charge  
and, in return,  M gives its members a number of benefits. One of the benefits of membership is 
personal accident  insurance.
Mr E thought his cover  for the personal accident insurance ended on his 81st birthday  but that the 
policy premiums were  still being taken from him. So Mr E complained to Astrenska  about this and 
asked it to refund the premiums charged to him since he turned 81. 
Astrenska explained: 
-Mr E is still a member  of M and the insurance  cover available to him as part of the 
membership package is still available for him although it has changed  since his 80th birthday.
-The benefit under  sections 3 and 4 reduces by 5% per year after the insured has reach 64 
and ends  completely at the age of 80. 
-So Mr E is still covered by the personal  accident  policy apart from the cover given under 
sections 3 and 4, which  ended at the age of 80. It felt this is clear in the policy wording.
-Due to a system error, the premium hadnt been proportionately reduced to reflect  the 
reduced cover.  
To put things right, Astrenska has offered to pay back to Mr E the part of the premium he was 
overcharged, plus interest  at 8% and £50 for any distress and inconvenience this had caused him. 
Mr E brought  the matter to our service. He says hes not covered by the policy so he doesnt see why 
he should pay for it - all the premiums charged since he turned  81 should  be returned to him.
Our investigator looked into matters and explained  that the cover didnt end on Mr Es 81st birthday, 
but rather  the level of cover  reduced  and it was only sections 3 and 4 of the policy  which ended after 
he turned 80. So our investigator thought Astrenskas  offer was fair. 
Mr E was unhappy  with this so the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based  my 
decision on what I thinks more likely  to have happened in light of the evidence.
Having done so, I have  to tell Mr E that I think the investigator has reached the right outcome here. Ill 
explain why. 
Theres no dispute that Astrenska made a mistake  when it failed to reduce the premium charged to Mr 
E when the benefits reduced under  his policy. Astrenska accepts it got this wrong and has offered to 
put this right. 
I also think  theres one further matter to consider  - whether Mr E wouldve done  something differently 
 such as cancel his membership with M and therefore the personal accident insurance   if the 
premium had been reduced when it should have. Having thought  about this carefully,  I dont think I 
can say that this is more  than likely.  I say this because:
-The terms and conditions  of the policy are clear.
-The cover  under  sections 3 and 4 had been reducing  by 5% each year since Mr E turned 65.
-The schedule  of cover  sent to Mr E each year at renewal had shown that cover under 
sections 3 and 4 had been reducing and that there wasnt  any benefit after Mr E turned 80.
Ref: DRN24523994-Membership  of M gave Mr E a number  of benefits. One of those  benefits is the personal 
accident cover but that wasnt the only benefit. 
Taking everything into account, I believe  that what Astrenska has offered to do to put things  right is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I know Mr E will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what we  in 
trying to informally  resolve his dispute  with Astrenska  can do for him. 
copy extract
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2452399