K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that they understood that when they got a further advance from 
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Woolwich that their Mortgage Reserve would be reduced 
to zero but instead  a £5,000 overdraft was retained.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2011. This was a capital and interest 
repayment mortgage. It had an overdraft facility  called a Mortgage  Current  Account Reserve. 
Mr and Mrs D applied for a further advance from Barclays  at the beginning of 2014. Mr and 
Mrs D wanted to borrow about £74,000. Some £44,000 of this was to pay off debts including  
the overdraft facility of the mortgage.  At the time of the application,  the Reserve had reached 
£15,160 although the limit was £ 15,740. 
Mr and Mrs Ds application was successful  and they got an offer dated 5 February 2014 
which they accepted. According to the offer, the Mortgage Current Account Reserve was to 
be repaid out of the further advance and the overdraft limit on the reserve account reset  to 
£5,000. So, Barclays  should have paid off the overdrawn balance on the Reserve  of £15,160  
and paid Mr and Mrs D the remainder of the further  advance. Instead, according to Barclays  
it paid £10,224.07 to the Reserve and paid Mr and Mrs D £63,935.93.This left Mr and Mrs D 
with a £5,000 overdrawn balance in the Reserve  which was the new limit. This meant that 
when interest was added to the Reserve, the overdrawn balance exceeded the limit.
Barclays said that if Mr and Mrs D wanted to pay off the MCA Reserve in full, they could 
have done so from other funds released  as part of the further borrowing. It says that Mr and 
Mrs D got monthly statements showing the state  of the MCA Reserve.  But Barclays 
accepted that there had been issues in the service  provided to Mr and Mrs D and that it 
should have paid off all of Mr and Mrs Ds MCA Reserve account. But Barclays didnt agree 
to remove any adverse information passed to the credit reference  agencies about the 
operation of the account. It offered Mr and Mrs D compensation of £260.  Our investigators 
view was that Mr and Mrs D could have  paid off the MCA Reserve from the money  they had 
and thought that Barclays offer of compensation was fair. Mr and Mrs D disagreed saying in 
summary the problems  they encountered with an adverse credit history  were the result of 
Barclays mistake.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D were borrowing just over £74,000 by way of a further advance  from Barclays. 
Barclays said that it would pay off the MCA Reserve of £15,160 and pay Mr and Mrs D the 
balance of the money borrowed. Instead  according to Barclays,  it partially paid off the MCA 
Reserve paying £10,224.07 but sent £63,935.93 directly to Mr and Mrs Ds nominated 
account. I asked  Mr and Mrs D how much  was paid to them  directly  and they have told me 
£74,809 but I think this is unlikely as Barclays seem to have separated  the payment as 
described above. I understand the reason  Barclays didnt pay off the Reserve in full was that 
in order to allow Mr and Mrs D to retain the Reserve  with a facility  of £5,000 it had to leave it 
Ref: DRN24303992with a £5,000 overdraft.  So, £5,000 less was paid off the MCA Reserve than was intended in 
the letter of offer but Mr and Mrs D got £5,000 more directly than was originally intended. 
Barclays accepts that there was an error  and made an offer of £260 compensation. Mr and 
Mrs D believes  that this is insufficient compensation as they say that the  error led to 
massive future implications as they werent  able to move mortgage  providers  due to missed 
mortgage payments  on the reserve. Mr D says it was like getting a credit  card already 
loaded to the maximum limit. But Mr and Mrs D had the solution to this in their hands.  They  
had the extra £5,000  which they could have used to pay off the Reserve  in full. Or they could 
have paid off the excess  interest above  the overdraft from the extra  £5,000 and retained the 
rest. To that extent it was different than the credit card example. They  got an overdraft  at its 
limit of £5,000 but also got £5,000 if they wanted  to pay it off.
I have looked  at whether Mr and Mrs D should have been aware of the situation. The March 
statement for the MCA Reserve  dated 3 March  2014 shows  that the overdraft was partially 
cleared, that there is a lower balance of £5,000 and that with interest  added  it was above its 
limit. That should  have drawn to Mr and Mrs Ds attention that the overdraft hadnt been 
cleared. Mr and Mrs D should also clearly have  been  aware  that they had been paid directly 
£5,000 more than was intended in the letter of offer. 
So, whilst accepting that the original error lay with Barclays I consider that Mr and Mrs D had 
the means to rectify the situation but didnt. They could have used the extra  money they got 
to bring the overdraft  within  its limit which would have prevented adverse information going  
to credit reference agencies. Barclays says that any adverse history was recorded  on the 
account from April 2014 onwards which would  have given Mr and Mrs D sufficient time and 
notice to have  kept the overdraft within its limits. Barclays has indicated that its offer of £260 
is available for its initial  error. I believe that that it appropriate compensation and will leave 
Mr and Mrs D to contact Barclays directly  if they wish to accept it. But for the reasons stated 
I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2430399