K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Society of Lloyds refused his motor trade insurance claim.
Reference to Lloyds includes its agents.
background
Mr H said that his car was stolen  so he claimed  on his policy. After investigating Lloyds 
refused to pay the claim. Mr H brought his complaint about  that to us. Our investigator  didn't 
think Lloyds had dealt  with Mr Hs claim fairly.  She initially said that it was reasonable for 
Lloyds not to pay the claim but said it should  cancel the policy as though it hadnt ever 
existed, known in the insurance industry as voidance.  She added  that it should  return  Mr Hs 
premium to him. 
Lloyds didn't think that was fair but said that, as a goodwill gesture after deducting its 
investigation costs,  it would refund the remainder  of his premium  of roughly £1,200. Our 
investigator then said that, as Lloyds hadn't voided  the policy,  it should pay the claim and 
add simple interest to that sum.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 December 2018. For ease Ive copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it.  
In dealing with Mr Hs claim and complaint both sides have made a number of detailed  
points. But in this decision I will focus  on what  I see as being the key outstanding points.
Lloyds told Mr H that it wouldn't pay his claim because  it didn't  think he had given a true 
account of his personal circumstances or the history of his car. In particular, amongst other  
things, it didn't think that he lived at the address on his policy;  it also said hed given it 
inaccurate information about repairs hed done  to the car. Ive addressed those points  in 
turn.
Mr Hs address
Lloyds thought that Mr H didn't live at the policy  address. Ive looked very carefully  at the 
evidence Lloyds gathered in coming to that conclusion.  In particular it referred  to entries on 
social media which strongly indicated that Mr H didn't live at the policy  address but lived 
elsewhere with his partner and children. And Mr H wasn't able to provide convincing  
paperwork that was persuasive that he lived at the policy address. Indeed  Mr H gave Lloyds 
a utility and council tax bills in support of his account  that he lived there. But he also told 
Lloyds that his dad, who has the same name as him, paid the utility costs  and council tax. 
So the bills he supplied were  clearly in his dads  name and not his own. Also the council tax 
bill had a 25% deduction  for single occupancy. So that was further evidence that only one 
person lived there and that wasn't  Mr H. Having considered that and the other evidence on 
file I think Lloyds conclusion that Mr H didn't live at the policy  address  was reasonable. 
So it seems  likely that Mr Hs usual address is the same as his partners. And Lloyds has 
shown us evidence  that if hed given  that address it wouldn't  have offered him the policy. In 
Ref: DRN20154482those circumstances  it would be reasonable for Lloyds to void the policy.  And, given that 
Mr H must have  known where  he actually  lived but chose to give a different address, I think it 
would have been reasonable for Lloyds to decide that Mr H deliberately gave an incorrect 
address. In those circumstances it would also have been reasonable for Lloyds to keep the 
full premium. But, by the time it decided to refuse Mr Hs claim, his policy had already 
expired. So Lloyds didn't  go through the process of voiding  it. But, as a gesture of goodwill, 
it refunded Mr H roughly  £1,200 of his premium after deducting  its investigation costs. In the 
circumstances I think that goodwill gesture  was generous. 
I also think its worthwhile pointing out that its likely Mr H will benefit  from Lloyds decision  
not to void the policy.  That's because many insurers will see consumers whove had a 
previous policy  cancelled or voided  as a high risk. And insurers  may not offer polices to 
those consumers or only offer them at very high premiums. So if Lloyds had actually voided 
Mr Hs policy  future  insurers  would ask him about that and it would almost certainly have 
affected his ability to obtain insurance and the price of that. But as Lloyds haven't voided  the 
policy Mr H hasn't been affected  in that way.
the repairs to Mr Hs car
Lloyds also said that it didn't think Mr H had given  a true account of his cars history. It might  
help if I explain that Mr Hs car had previously  been  damaged in an accident and his then 
insurer said it was a total loss. Mr H bought the salvage from the insurer and told Lloyds 
hed repaired the car himself. Mr H signed a statement to say that hed bought parts costing 
between £5,000 and £6,000 from the manufacturer.  
To support that he later gave Lloyds a manufacturers invoice showing parts costing roughly 
£5,300. Lloyds contacted  the manufacturer which confirmed Mr H hadn't  actually bought  the 
parts and that the paperwork he provided  was an estimate not an invoice.  Mr H then told 
Lloyds hed bought the parts  elsewhere. He provided two handwritten receipts  showing 
parts costing roughly £1,000. Both receipts  are dated in the year before the car was 
damaged in the accident. So its clear that the statement  Mr H signed to say was true and 
accurate - that hed spent over £5,000  on parts from the manufacturer  - wasn't true. 
Thats significant as Mr Hs policy says that it can refuse a claim, cancel the policy  and keep 
the premium where a policyholder acts fraudulently  or provides false or stolen  documents to 
support a claim. I note that Lloyds didn't ever accuse Mr H of fraud. But Mr H gave it a 
manufacturers estimate which he implied  was an invoice. He then supplied two different 
invoices, both dated from a time before the accident  in which his car was damaged, from 
different suppliers to the one named in his signed statement. So I can understand why 
Lloyds didn't think hed given a true account  of his cars history.
It follows that I think Lloyds concerns over Mr Hs address and his cars history  were 
reasonable. And in those circumstances I don't think it needs  to pay Mr Hs claim or refund 
him the balance of his premium.
Neither Mr H nor Lloyds commented on my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Ref: DRN20154483As neither Mr H nor Lloyds has raised  any objections to my provisional  decision I see no 
reason to change  it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2015448