K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains about over limit fees that NewDay Ltd applied to her account.
background
Mrs P opened a credit card account with NewDay  in September  2012. During 2014 her 
account exceeded its credit limit twice and she incurred two over limit fees. In 2015,  four 
over limit fees were  applied to Mrs Ps account.  And  in 2017 a further five over limit fees 
were applied when  Mrs Ps account  exceeded  its credit limit. During  2018  seven over limit 
fees were charged  by NewDay  after which Mrs P repaid her balance in full using her 
savings.
Mrs P complained to NewDay  that the over limit charges it had applied were  unfair  and 
disproportionate. She also said the charges had caused her account  to exceed her credit 
limit, which had added to her financial burden  and resulted in further default fees being 
charged. 
To resolve  her complaint  Mrs P asked NewDay to refund the default charges it charged 
together with all over limit fees it applied to her account as a consequence of the default  
charges along  with compensation  for being unfairly deprived of this money. 
After it investigated  Mrs Ps complaint, NewDay didnt uphold  it. It thought  the over limit fees 
were fair and justifiable. And it felt it had properly applied them  in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Ps account.
Being dissatisfied with NewDays  response  Mrs P referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator empathised  with Mrs P but thought  the over limit charges were  applied in line 
with the accounts terms and conditions.  And they thought it was fair for NewDay  to charge 
Mrs P in circumstances where she had gone  over his limit. But Mrs P disagreed and asked 
for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, which I know  will be disappointing to Mrs P. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is whether the over limit fees have been applied  correctly here. 
And my role is to decide what is fair and reasonable. 
Mrs P complained that the over limit charges that NewDay applied  when she exceeded her 
credit limit were unfair and disproportionate.  But there was a Supreme Court  ruling in 2009 
which means the amount of charges cant be challenged  on the grounds theyre too high. 
Like our investigator explained to Mrs P, our service  can consider whether the charges were  
applied fairly  and in line with the terms and conditions of Mrs Ps account. 
Having seen statements  of Mrs Ps account  from November 2013 to February 2018  I can 
see that she incurred  an over limit fee on18  occasions. Based on what  Ive seen, the over 
limit fees didnt cause  Mrs P to exceed her credit limit. Rather, the fees were  incurred as a 
result of both purchases being made  and her account not being brought  within  the credit limit 
immediately as required. And each time this happened an over limit fee of £12 was applied. 
Ref: DRN23138032Before Mrs P became  a NewDay  customer she had to sign a credit card agreement. This is 
regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974  and Ive seen the terms and conditions  that she 
agreed to adhere  to. As its a binding agreement Id expect Mrs P to have read this 
agreement prior to signing it
Ive considered what the terms and conditions of Mrs Ps account state about over limit fees. 
Having seen the credit agreement  Mrs P signed,  clause 8 outlines the tariff of charges it may 
apply to a customers  account in certain  circumstances.  In relation to over limit fees this 
clause states  that a fee of £12 will be applied each time a customer  exceeds  their credit limit.
Im satisfied that the information NewDay provided in its terms and conditions  was clear  and 
transparent. I say this because  the terms set out clearly what  charges  can be applied, when 
and how theyll be applied and how NewDay would  tell a customer about them. 
Ive seen evidence  that NewDay sent Mrs P annual statements, which  explained the over 
limit fees she had been charged each year. And I can see that every  time an over limit fee 
was applied to Mrs Ps account an over limit fee advice  (Notice of Default Sum) letter was 
also sent to her as we would expect. This notice explained why an over limit fee had been 
charged, what would  happen and what Mrs P should do if she had any queries. 
From the notes NewDay has provided  our service, I can see that in September  2015 it told 
Mrs P that if she increased  her monthly  payment it would clear  her balance quicker. This 
was following a number  of over limit fees being applied  to Mrs Ps account. I think  this 
demonstrates that NewDay were  trying to assist Mrs P to avoid her incurring further  over 
limit fees. And I can also see that Mrs Ps credit  card statements indicated that she needed  
to repay  the amount she had exceeded the limit by immediately as it didnt form part of the 
minimum required payment. So, again, I think Mrs P was presented  with clear information 
about the over limit fees she was charged.
I understand Mrs Ps perspective that if she couldnt  afford to make a higher minimum 
payment then she also couldnt  afford the over limit charge  so it shouldnt have been 
applied. But NewDay is entitled to apply charges in line with the terms and conditions  
which its done. So, I cant fairly conclude its done  anything wrong in applying  over limit fees 
to Mrs Ps account.
Mrs P said the over limit fees added to her financial burden.  But, while I sympathise with Mrs 
P, theres no evidence  she told NewDay she was experiencing financial difficulties prior to 
March 2018. Mrs P told our service  that she thought NewDay shouldve spotted  that she was 
experiencing financial difficulties before this point because she had incurred a number of 
over limit fees consecutively.
Having carefully considered the way in which Mrs P was managing her account  I can see 
that she incurred  three  consecutive  over limit fees in 2015 and four in 2017. I can also see 
that from Dec 2017 until she closed her account she incurred eight consecutive  fees.  I dont 
think three consecutive fees in 2015 were sufficient  to trigger a concern  with NewDay  that 
Mrs P may have been  experiencing financial difficulties. And from December 2015 until 
February 2017 Mrs P didnt incur any fees or exceed  her credit limit. In March 2017 she 
exceeded her credit  limit and incurred over limit fees until she brought her account within its 
limit in July 2017.  Again,  Im not persuaded that four consecutive over limit fees were 
sufficient here to flag potential financial difficulties with NewDay.  
Ref: DRN23138033There were no further over limit fees charged after July 2017 until December 2017. From 
then onwards Mrs Ps account remained over its credit limit until July 2018,  when she paid 
off the balance using her savings. In March 2018,  when  Mrs P told NewDay  she was 
struggling financially, she had incurred at least three consecutive  over limit fees.  As our 
investigator explained to Mrs P, at that time, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) outlined 
new rules for credit card debt, and gave financial businesses six months in which  to comply. 
These rules  required credit card providers to carry out a persistent debt test. And a customer 
who had paid more  towards interest and charges over the previous 18-month-period, than 
towards the principal  was considered to be in persistent debt.
Where a customer is in persistent debt the business  is required to communicate with them  to 
explain they should increase their level of payment and make  contact to discuss  their 
circumstances. The business  should also warn customers  of the consequences  of persistent 
debt. As our investigator stated, when this rule came into effect, its clear from the way in 
which Mrs P had managed her account  that she wouldve been considered to be in 
persistent debt. But NewDay didnt have to comply with the new rules until September 2018  
by which  point Mrs P had already paid her balance  in full. And theres  no evidence to support 
any argument that the FCA intended that the rules be applied  retrospectively.
Ive considered the duties of businesses prior to March 2018.  Businesses were required to 
try to ease a customers financial burden if they were made aware they were  experiencing 
financial difficulties. To do this they could ask the customer to contact  it for help in managing 
their finances, temporarily suspend  usage of the account or offer to reduce  or freeze  interest 
or fees.  But the decision on how help was given was left up to the business, as theyd be in 
the best position to decide  after assessing the customers  circumstances.
With this in mind Ive thought about  the action NewDay  took prior to March 2018. It said its 
usual process is to send  an income and expenditure form to a customer in financial 
difficulties and to establish a suitable payment arrangement once the completed  form is 
returned. NewDay stated  that it isnt able to provide a copy  of the form it believes it sent Mrs 
P. It said this is because these forms are issued manually by its financial difficulties team  so 
theres no footprint  of it being sent on NewDays system. It does think,  though, that this form 
was probably sent to Mrs P with correspondence she recalls receiving in early  March 2018. 
I understand that Mrs P no longer has a copy of Marchs letter. But, given when she 
contacted NewDay  to explain she was in financial difficulties, it think  its more  likely than not 
that the letter she received in early March  2018 enclosed the income and expenditure form 
NewDay would typically send customers who are experiencing financial hardship. And Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest NewDay departed from its usual  process of sending that form.
I havent seen  any evidence that Mrs P completed that form. This explains why a suitable 
payment plan wasnt set up. I think it was reasonable  for NewDay  to send  this form to Mrs P 
as it would enable  it to undertake a detailed financial review.  And I think  it also demonstrates 
that NewDay was acting responsibly and proactively  with a customer  in financial difficulties.
NewDay informed Mrs P before March  2018 that if she increased her monthly  payment  it 
would clear her balance quicker.  And it wrote  to her on multiple occasions before and after 
March 2018 explaining that it had stopped her using her card in efforts  to prevent her from 
getting further into debt and to make it easier  for her to repay  her balance. It explained that if 
she was finding  it difficult to pay she should  contact  NewDay  and it would assist her in 
finding a solution. Im satisfied that in sending this correspondence NewDay  was trying to 
Ref: DRN23138034ease Mrs Ps financial burden. And I can see that NewDay signposted Mrs P to debt 
advisory services, which I think was helpful  and responsible. 
I dont think its reasonable to expect NewDay to chase Mrs P where its sent multiple  letters 
asking her to contact it so it could  assist her in managing  her account. Its a more  reasonable 
expectation that a customer  would telephone NewDay and engage with it in these 
circumstances. Mrs P didnt engage  with NewDay  in its efforts  to help her manage her debt 
until March 2018.  Im satisfied that it tried on multiple occasions to engage with Mrs P and 
address her financial situation  with her before and after March 2018.  As NewDay  offered the 
assistance that I would expect it to offer in these circumstances, I cant fairly conclude  that it 
shouldve done  more to help here.
I have a great deal of sympathy for the financial situation Mrs P found herself in. But, for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think NewDay has done anything  wrong  here. Its acted fairly 
and reasonably and I wont be asking it to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2313803