K820x#14complaint 
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK plc wont refund  payments made using his credit  card 
in a club in Poland. 
background
Mr T was at a club in the early hours of the morning.  His Barclaycard was used for two 
transactions made about 12 minutes  apart  and totalling over £6,200.  There were further 
attempts to use the card about two-and-a-half hours  later, but these were declined because  
Mr T had exceeded his credit limit. 
In respect of the first payment, Mr T says he was overcharged and that the club took 
advantage of the fact that he had been drinking and was making a payment in a foreign 
currency that he wasnt familiar with. He has no recollection of the second payment, and 
believes his card was used to make  a payment without his knowledge or authority while the 
card was out of his possession for a short time.  
Mr T says as well that Barclaycard should  have identified the payments  and stopped them. 
He hadnt told the bank  that he was travelling abroad  and the payments were  out of 
character. They also took him over his credit limit. 
Barclaycard looked  into things  but said that it thought Mr T had carried out the transactions 
himself, rather  than being defrauded. Whilst it had fraud prevention  systems in place, it was 
under no duty to identify all unusual payments; and it was entitled  to allow payments, even 
where they would  take a customer over their credit limit. The later payments were declined 
because there were insufficient  funds.   
Mr T referred the matter  to this service, where one of our investigators considered  it. She 
didnt think however that there was enough evidence  to suggest anyone  other  than Mr T was 
responsible for the disputed payments. Mr T asked that an ombudsman review the case.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons. 
Barclaycards evidence  indicates that, on each  occasion Mr Ts card was used  or there  
was an attempt to use it  the chip in the card was read and the correct  PIN was used. The 
investigator concluded, therefore,  that the genuine  card was used on each occasion. I agree 
with that analysis and for the same  reason. I note that Mr T had the card with him later the 
same day. So, if anyone else had used the card without Mr Ts knowledge,  they would have 
had to return it to him. And if they also tried to use it for the later (failed) payments, they 
either had it for more  than two-and-a-half hours   but didnt try to use it in that time  or took 
it from Mr T on a second occasion, before returning it to him when it didnt  work.  I cant rule 
out the possibility that someone  at the club observed Mr T while  he was using his card to 
make the first transaction and was then able to take it from him and make the second 
payment. On balance,  though, I think it more likely that he made  both. 
I think it quite likely  too that Mr T was overcharged   in the sense that he paid more than he 
had been expecting. Online reports indicate  that other visitors to the club have reported 
similar stories, and Mr T has acknowledged  that he had been drinking and was unfamiliar 
Ref: DRN24709732with the local currency. He may well have been taken advantage of. That doesnt mean 
however that he didnt  authorise the payments,  in the sense that he used his Barclaycard 
with the PIN. 
I must therefore consider Mr Ts second argument   that Barclaycard should have 
intervened to stop one or both transactions that went  through,  as it did later that night. Im 
afraid I dont agree with him on that point. Ive explained  why I believe  on balance  Mr T 
made the payments to the club himself. Hes also explained why he perhaps wasnt fully 
paying attention when  he was in the club. Whilst card providers have  systems  in place to try 
to identify potentially  fraudulent transactions  and those systems  might sometimes flag up 
payments that are not fraudulent but merely  unusual, I dont believe I can fairly conclude  that 
Barclaycard should  have  acted to protect Mr T in this case. Nor was Barclaycard bound to 
stop transactions which took Mr T over his credit limit  it had a discretion to allow  him to 
exceed his limit. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator  that a refund  would  not be appropriate.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything further to resolve 
Mr Ts complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr T to accept  or reject  my decision before 24 October 2019.
Michael Ingram
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2470973