K820x#14complaint
Mr Y feels  that Barclays Bank  UK Plc has treated him unfairly in relation  to some losses  on 
transactions totalling over twenty thousand  pounds he made on his debit card from his 
current account to a trading company abroad.
background
Mr Y accepts he made these transactions  on his card to the trading company in order to 
trade with that company on the markets it said it provided access  to. These payments left his 
account in October  2017. Sometime  later Mr Y became  concerned that the trading company 
wasnt reputable  and sought  the return of his money by raising chargebacks through 
Barclays. It raised the chargebacks. Then, as Mr Y was talking to the trading company, he 
asked Barclays to withdraw  the dispute  in a letter of 15 February 2018. Barclays says it 
didnt apply the withdraw the dispute instruction of the 15th February to all of the 
chargebacks it had started for Mr Y. So some chargebacks continued  and were  successful 
and Mr Y received  refunds on those  chargebacks  that had continued.
Mr Y then asked Barclays to freeze (letter 1st March 2018) and then restart  the chargebacks 
again (10 April 2018). Barclays  then responded that the outstanding chargebacks  were  
unsuccessful. Mr Y complained and Barclays said it hadnt done  anything  wrong that needed 
rectifying.
Mr Y remained unhappy.  so he complained here.  The investigator  thought  that Barclays  
didnt have to refund the outstanding transactions made to the trading company.  Mr Y 
doesnt agree. So this complaint comes  to me to decide on the matter.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of what Mr Y says I shall now address the key issues of this matter  as 
I see them. Firstly  I must  make very clear  that this decision is solely  about  the behaviour of 
Barclays in relation to these transactions. It is not and cannot  be a decision on the 
behaviours or actions  of the trading company. Mr Y has pointed  to various sources  of 
evidence regarding the legitimacy  and integrity of the trading company. Mr Y says the 
trading company is a scam and have stolen from him. This may be so. However this doesnt 
detract from the fact that I can only decide on how Barclays  has acted in this decision  as it is 
Barclays and its actions  which fall within this services remit. 
As Mr Y made the transactions on his debit  card from his current account to the trading 
company there are two issues to consider. Firstly were the transactions themselves properly 
made and secondly  when  Mr Y approached Barclays seeking the return of his payments  did 
Barclays fulfil its obligations.
The transactions
Mr Y accepts he made the transactions. Barclays has debited  them  from his account  and 
showed them on his statements. And its clear that Mr Y didnt challenge the transactions at 
the time he made  them. So I think he made  the transactions to the trading firm when he 
wanted to and didnt have  concerns until sometime after those transactions  had cleared.
Ref: DRN20984692Mr Y has suggested that Barclays  didnt  do enough  to look into the legitimacy  of the trading  
company when he made the transactions. The onus is on the account holder to consent and 
authorise the transaction. Barclays does have  a duty to prevent fraud broadly. It doesnt 
have an obligation  to stop all fraud in all cases.  So I dont think it did anything wrong in 
processing Mr Ys authorised transactions.
The chargebacks
The chargeback process  is administered by the card provider (not Barclays)  and provides a 
process for bank account providers to request the recovery  of funds for its account holders in 
certain limited situations. This is a voluntary scheme  and I should stress that this process is 
not a right for consumers to go through.
I should make clear that there is no obligation  on the firm (Barclays here)  to challenge the 
evidence the merchant (the trading company  in this instance) provides or to perform  some 
sort of investigation into the merchant. Barclays duty here is simply to consider the 
circumstances and then apply its discretion as to whether  it should  proceed or not with the 
chargeback process.  And when it does so it should  do so fairly and reasonably. I should also 
make clear  that the final stage of the chargeback sits with the card provider. So even in the 
situation where the bank pursues the chargeback to the end of the process in support of its 
account holder  the final decision doesnt sit with it.
I should also add specifically to this case that if the merchant (trading company) decides to 
refund a transaction it may do so for a variety of reasons, but it isnt under any specific  legal 
obligation to do so from the chargeback scheme-which is, as Ive said,  a voluntary scheme. 
It is also entitled to consider each chargeback on its individual merits.
In this instance Barclays accepts it didnt stop some of the chargebacks to the trading 
company as Mr Y instructed it to. These  went to the trading company and it refunded those  
transactions. Why the trading company  chose  to do this considering Mr Ys representations 
on its integrity and FCA warnings about it is unclear.  But it did and significant  amounts  of 
money were  refunded  to Mr Y. If Barclays had correctly  stopped  all the chargebacks as Mr Y 
instructed, I think it likely that Mr Y would be in a worse position financially than he is now as 
he probably wouldnt have  had the benefit  of those refunds considering  what  we now know  
about the trading company.
Once Mr Y asked Barclays to restart  the dispute  (for the second  time) it didnt succeed in 
recouping the transactions. Barclays has since explained that the first time Mr Y told it to 
stop the chargebacks took the dispute passed the 120-day time limit within the scheme.
Ive considered the scheme rules and also looked  at the dates  of the transactions  and when 
Mr Y asked Barclays to restart the chargeback.  And this was outside of the 120-day time 
limit. The scheme rules make  clear of the obligations required of the various parties and 
significant obligations on the trading company fall away at that point. So bearing in mind this 
time limit I dont think Barclays has done  anything wrong in not trying to restart the 
chargeback after the time limit expired.
Bearing in mind what we know  about  the trading company and the voluntary nature of the 
scheme on balance  I think  if Barclays had tried to make  the chargeback after the time limit it 
would have been likely to be unsuccessful.
Ref: DRN20984693Considering the matter  in the round it is clear  that Barclays can only be held accountable for 
things it has done  wrong.  It is clear  Mr Ys loses sit primarily with the trading company which 
fraudulently deceived  him (Mr Ys words). In short,  the errors  that Barclays  has made has 
led to Mr Y benefiting in terms of his receiving funds through chargebacks  that hed 
instructed Barclays to stop.
Mr Y also points to other successful chargebacks  hes raised with other banks. This maybe 
so. However Barclays is not responsible for the actions of the trading company if it accepted 
earlier chargebacks  or indeed other  financial firms who may have made  a commercial 
decision to cover those transactions. It is only responsible for its actions. Mr Y says that 
when he spoke to Barclays, he was told it could reopen his chargeback. Barclays doesnt 
have record of this. However I dont  think it makes a difference  because  if it was after the 
120 days had passed it would be too late to do so and if it had been before  the 120 days  it 
would have been true. But the reason Mr Y withdrew  the dispute  was because he was 
speaking to the trading company and it was this that took the matter  passed the time limit.
He also says To remind you this was a major fraud  to which  nobody  seems to be able to do 
anything about  it. There has to be a mechanism to challenge the banks stand  in these 
cases.  However it is my position that Barclays hasnt done  anything here which  has caused 
loss to Mr Y. So why should  it foot the cost of Mr Ys decision to invest  what  he now calls a 
major fraud . Mr Y says he was intimidated into asking for a hold to be put on. I am sorry to 
hear this. But that intimidation didnt come from Barclays.  He also says By paying the three  
claims at the time they did, they created  a precedence  and thereby makes them  liable to pay 
all of the outstanding claims.  Barclays didnt pay the successful chargebacks,  the trading 
company did.
Ive considered everything that Mr Y has said.  I appreciate how Mr Y feels about the whole 
matter and why hes particularly vexed at the situation he finds himself  in. I am empathetic  
towards his plight. However  all in all I dont  think  it fair for Barclays to have to cover  the value 
of the outstanding transactions  to the trading company to Mr Y. I dont think it did anything 
wrong which needs fixing in relation to making  the transactions or in its position  regarding 
the chargeback.  Mr Y has repeatedly said he will take the matter further. He is at liberty  to do 
so. But this decision ends  our complaint process  and our involvement in the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is I do not uphold  this complaint about 
Barclays Bank UK Plc. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required 
to ask Mr Y to let me know whether he accepts or rejects my decision before 08 May 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2098469