K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that following possession and sale of her property by her mortgagee 
Landmark Mortgages Limited, it made  unjustified deductions from the sale proceeds  leaving 
her with a shortfall  which it now unfairly  seeks to recover from her.
background
Mrs S got into arrears on her Landmark  mortgage. Landmark obtained and executed  a 
possession order from the court and appointed  an asset manager. Following sale of the 
property there was a shortfall of just over £3,000. 
Mrs S wasnt  happy about this and made  a complaint to this service. She said:
1.She had been  contacted in February  2018 and wanted to know if there were copies of 
any letters previously sent to her.
2.Why had interest  and charges been suspended? What were  they for and how were they 
calculated?
3.What were asset managers costs? She wanted a full breakdown of these costs.
4.What was OS3?
5.She wanted signed paperwork  for the house  sitting contract. Why should she bear this 
cost?
6.What were the call outs for?
7.She wanted to know the price of the fence panels and labour.
8.What was the yard maintenance for and why it was done six times?
9.Why was removal  of paint charged  five times? Did Landmark have photographic  
evidence of all five pictures of graffiti and vandalism?
We initially referred Mrs Ss complaint to Landmark for a final response. It responded:
1.Copy letters were enclosed.
2.Following the sale the shortfall had been  passed to its loss recoveries unit and no 
interest or charges had been added to the account since then. The unit had been trying  
to contact the parties named on the account  to discuss their situation  and agree a 
mutually acceptable arrangement to clear the outstanding balance on the account.
3.Following the possession of a property  an asset manager was appointed and the costs  
incurred in managing, maintaining and preparing the property  for sale along with the 
estate agents  and solicitors fees were added to the outstanding balance.  A completion 
statement confirming the costs  incurred in managing, maintaining, preparing and 
marketing the property along with the estate agents and solicitors fees had been sent to 
Mrs S. A further copy was enclosed.
Ref: DRN281277424.The £3.00 charged under the heading  OS3 was for the official search carried  out by the 
solicitors.
5.Mrs S was notified of the eviction date and it was her responsibility to remove her 
belongings from the property. However,  as she failed to do so, house  sittings  were 
arranged so that she could come and collect her belongings.
6.Whilst a property was secured,  if Landmark was informed about  any intrusions or 
damage to the property, the asset  manager would send their staff to investigate the 
issues, report back and take appropriate action to protect the property. The call out 
charges were correctly applied  to the account  to cover the costs involved.
7.The costs including  labour and VAT to replace the damaged  fence were £858.00.
8.As it took nearly  a year to sell the property, maintenance  was carried  out on a regular 
basis on six occasions.
9.Mrs S hadnt been charged five times for the removal of the paint cans.  Five cans were 
removed from the property and these were  disposed of in line with the guidelines for a 
total cost of £18.00. Photos of the property taken at the time of possession were 
enclosed.
Mrs S wasnt  happy with this response. She said:
1.Landmark had been sending letters to the property address.
2.Why was interest charged  when  the house was being repossessed?
3.Why was she being charged for asset  managers, estate  agents  and conveyancing when 
these werent a service  she had requested  but were Landmark repossessing  the house? 
Should Landmark not cover these costs? 
5.She wanted Landmark to supply an agreement regarding the house sitting, as she hadnt  
been given a choice of house sitters. Why should  she pay for a service she didnt agree 
to? Where was the signed house  sitting agreement?
8.Why was she paying for maintenance six times when her garden waste  would have 
needed to be cleared  once?
10.Why was she being  charged  for maintenance of a property which she was no longer 
living at owing to repossession? 
Ref: DRN2812774311.Why did she have to pay for a valuation for a house sale that was out of her control? 
Once she vacated the property why should she have to pay for the costs of the sale 
when this should have been  taken care of by Landmark?
Mrs S said it was Landmarks  lawyers as well as the judge who chose  not to accept the 
payments which  she proposed on a monthly  basis. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend Mrs Ss complaint be upheld.  He said Landmark  should 
have had Mrs Ss correct address, but she should  have provided  a forwarding address so 
that it could keep communicating.
In the adjudicators opinion, until the sale of the property took place Mrs S was the legal 
owner of the property,  and he thought it fair that Landmark would need to protect its security 
and interest in a property  which wasnt  being  lived in.
A property  which  had been left vacant for a year would require maintenance and general 
upkeep more so when someone  wasnt living at the property, as it wouldnt have regular 
maintenance. Landmark would need  to make  sure the property was in good condition for 
viewings that would  need to take place, to get the highest sale price  available  on the open  
market.
The adjudicator thought  the costs Landmark had charged were  reasonable costs it would 
incur over the course  of a year whilst  it tried to sell the property.
Mrs S didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman. She said 
the court decision was made by the judge and the lawyer representing Landmark. After two 
court hearings the judge with Landmarks lawyer agreed to have the property repossessed. 
The judge  chose to side with Landmark and not to accept the payments she proposed and 
could have paid on a monthly  basis.
If the judge had chosen  to accept the payments her two young sons and elderly  mother  
wouldnt have ended  up in a hostel for over six months and payments would still have  been  
made towards the property. She had started  speaking to estate agents regarding  the sale of 
the property and Landmark knew that she didnt want to have it repossessed.
She had requested copies of receipts, contracts, and invoices from Landmark but these 
hadnt been supplied. An income should  have been  generated  until the property was sold by 
renting it out. This should have been  done  since it took nearly a year to have the property 
eventually sold.
She said costs such as rubbish removal, cleaning, emergency call outs, yard maintenance 
and extra locks  should have been included in the asset managers fees.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Following the numbering  above:
1.If Landmarks letters were going to the property  address, that would have been because 
Mrs Ss new address hadnt  been entered on its system. She says Landmark was made  
aware that she was housed at a hostel but she doesnt say when or how the address of 
Ref: DRN28127744the hostel was communicated to Landmark and I cant  see any reference  to this in the 
documents supplied to me.
2.The reason  why interest  was charged  when  the house was being repossessed  was that 
at that point, the loan was still outstanding.
3.The reason  why Mrs S was charged  for asset  managers, estate  agents  and 
conveyancing wasnt because shed requested these services.  It was because  they fall 
within paragraph 13 of the terms and conditions  of the mortgage,  which  sets out the 
costs and fees which Landmark is entitled to charge.
4.This has been answered.
5.The asset manager was appointed by Landmark  but Im not aware of any separate  
signed house sitting agreement. I wouldnt expect  a borrower following repossession to 
be consulted about a choice of house sitters if she wanted to come  back  to retrieve 
possessions.
6.This has been answered.
7.This has been answered.
8.The adjudicators  view about  this was:
A property which had been left vacant for a year would  require  maintenance and 
general upkeep  more so when someone  was not living at the property, as it would not 
have regular maintenance. Landmark would need to make sure the property was in good 
condition for viewings that would need  to take place, to get the highest sale price 
available on the open market.
I agree.  The maintenance charge on each occasion  was £40 plus VAT and I dont 
consider this unreasonable.
9.This has been answered.
10.Because it was necessary for Landmark  to keep the property  properly maintained in 
order to obtain  the best price on sale. These are costs incurred in protecting or 
preserving the security under paragraph 13.1(e) of the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage.
11.Because the valuation  and other  costs of sale are costs incurred in recovering the 
mortgage debt under paragraph 13.1(a) of the terms and conditions of the mortgage.  
Such costs are always recoverable by a lender from a borrower  who defaults.
I cant interfere with the judges decision not to accept  Mrs Ss payment proposals.
If Landmark had known in advance how long it would take until the property were sold then it 
might have let it. But Landmark  couldnt  know that, and letting the property prior to any sale 
would have caused obvious  problems  if a purchaser had been found during the term of the 
letting.  
Ref: DRN28127745The asset managers fees are a percentage  of the sale price  and arent  intended to include 
disbursements such as removal of rubbish  and emergency call outs and locks.
In my view Mrs Ss questions have been  adequately  answered and I dont consider that 
Landmark should be required to do anything more. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Mrs S has also raised two new complaints set out below.  These  werent included in her 
current complaint so I cant deal with them  here. If she wishes  them to be dealt with she 
should raise them with Landmark and make a new complaint to this service if shes not 
happy with Landmarks  response.
The shortfall had been recorded  on her credit file. Landmark hadnt  been given her 
monthly income and outgoings for an arrangement  to be made for a suitable  payment 
plan for this shortfall. So it was unfair  to have put this shortfall on the credit file.
There seemed to have been discrepancies in the sale of the property. Landmark  had 
said that at least  two independent valuations of the property were normally done  and the 
aim was to sell for the best price within a reasonable amount of time.  If an effort had 
been made the property would have been  sold in a reasonable time.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2812774