K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that a car he financed  through an agreement with Alphabet (GB) Ltd 
(Alphabet) required  an additional service, that he had to pay for, but should not have been 
due during the lease period.
background
Mr H took receipt of a new car in September 2016.  He financed the deal through a personal 
contract hire agreement with Alphabet. 
In July 2018 he received a message through the cars information  screen  that a further 
service was due. 
He thought the service wasnt due until the car was two years old and that hed therefore be 
able to hand the car back early without  completing  it. 
He noted that the inspection completed  before  he received  the car (the PDI) had been 
completed in August  2016 almost two months  before  the car was in his possession.  He said 
that when the PDI was completed the service  clock started to wind down and that this meant 
the car required a service  almost two months earlier than it should  have. 
He therefore complained  to Alphabet. He said he should not be held liable for the cost of the 
service and he wanted it refunded.
Alphabet agreed  that the PDI triggered  the start of the servicing  cycle  but they explained that 
it was rendered irrelevant  as servicing was variable between 9,000  and 19,000  miles or 12 to 
24 months. 
So Mr H referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided his opinion. He 
reviewed the servicing requirements of the car and noted that servicing  was automatically 
triggered between  9,000 and 19,000 miles or 12 and 24 months  depending  on what  sensors  
said about the cars condition. He thought it was more likely that the servicing had been 
triggered by use and not by time and he didnt think there was evidence  that Mr H had lost 
out financially. So he didnt  support  the complaint.
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicator. He said that because the second service was triggered 
prematurely he had to pay £279  to complete it when that should not have been necessary. 
He therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr H so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN28490712Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired  his car under a personal contract hire agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about 
it.  
Ive reviewed the servicing  information provided by the manufacturer. That explains how the 
car knows when a (variable)  service is required and says:
sensors throughout the car continuously monitor the engine  oil the monitoring system 
also checks other element, including  mileage covered, brake pads, and battery  condition.
It goes on to explain: the onboard computer then uses this information to calculate  its own 
maintenance interval
The dealership have explained that variable servicing can be triggered anytime between  
9,000 and 19,000 miles but that a second service  would always be triggered by 24 months. 
So, regardless of when  the PDI was completed, the car would  always  have required a 
second service if the full 24 month  term of the lease had been completed.
As the car had completed a little over 15,000 miles when it was handed back I think  its 
reasonable to consider that when Mr H was thinking  of returning it, a few months  early,  he 
would have already exceeded  12,000  miles. Thats the point after which a service may be 
triggered if sensors detected sufficient wear. So I think it was always  possible that a second 
service could be required even if the car was returned a few months early. 
The servicing information also explains that the onboard computer provides the driver with 
ample warning when  an inspection service  is due. So I dont think Mr H has been  
deprived of an opportunity  to return the car before the service  was due. In fact the car would  
have warned him of the impending service  so he could return  the car before  it was 
completed.
But Mr H didnt return the car. He continued  to use it and as a result he had to pay for the 
service. In those circumstances I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest hes 
experienced any financial loss. The second  service was always  due if the lease  ran its term; 
it could have been triggered  earlier than that in line with the variable servicing plan. Mr H 
would also have had prior warning  a second service  was imminent and could therefore have 
returned the car before that time if hed accepted the business early  settlement quote.
Ref: DRN28490713my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2849071