K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK plc wont refund  transactions  that he says he neither 
made nor authorised  and that it said it would  no longer provide him with banking services.   
background
Mr W had a basic account and a top up debit  card account with Santander.  
Shortly after midnight  a balance enquiry was made at a cash  machine, followed by a 
withdrawal from his basic account and, over the next hour,  by a number of further balance  
enquiries and attempts to make  further  withdrawals. They were unsuccessful, because the 
daily withdrawal limit had been  reached. The total amount in dispute in respect of the cash  
machine withdrawal from the basic account  is £251.99 (which  appears to include a £1.99 
fee). 
On the same  day, and a few minutes  after the withdrawal Ive mentioned above, a further 
cash withdrawal for the same amount was made  at the same location  this time using the 
card linked to Mr Ws top up account.  Again, the withdrawal followed a balance  enquiry at 
the cash machine  and was followed by further balance enquiries and unsuccessful  attempts 
to make further withdrawals. 
Later that day Mr W contacted Santander  to say that hed lost his wallet,  containing his cards  
and his driving licence. He said he kept his PIN in his wallet as well, because  he has 
difficulty remembering numbers. 
Less than a week later Mr W contacted Santander  again,  this time to say that he wanted to 
report three payments  to PayPal and one to One Click  Limited as fraudulent. Santander 
raised a chargeback claim in respect  of the PayPal  payments and they were  refunded.  But it 
said that the One Click payment had been made using  Mr Ws card details and mobile 
phone and had been made from an IP address that he uses frequently.  The card details 
were for a new card, and so it didnt believe there  had been an opportunity  for anyone  else 
to obtain them. It didnt agree to refund that payment,  of £200. 
Santander decided  to withdraw  banking  facilities from Mr W, because  of the number of 
claims hed brought.  
Mr W wasnt happy that Santander hadnt refunded the disputed  transactions and that it 
withdrew banking  facilities from him, and so he complained to this service. One of our 
investigators considered  his complaint  but concluded that the cash machine withdrawals and 
the payment to One Click had been authorised by Mr W. He also thought Santander had 
acted reasonably in closing  his accounts.  Mr W asked  that those conclusions  be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.        
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar  reasons. 
Ill deal first of all with the cash machine withdrawals. Given  the location and timings,  Im 
satisfied that both withdrawals were  made  by the same person and that they must have 
Ref: DRN25693972acquired the cards together.  Im satisfied too that the genuine  cards  were used with the 
correct PIN. 
Before the withdrawal was made from the basic account, a transfer was made  to that 
account from the top up account. But for that transfer, the withdrawal would not have been 
successful. The transfer was made  using Santanders mobile banking app. A further transfer 
was made  in the same way after the withdrawal. There  were several online log-ins  shortly  
after the withdrawals.  
The payment to One Click was also preceded and followed by mobile  logins. It was made  
from the same IP address  as that used by Mr W to access online banking. 
I think it more  likely than not that the use of Mr Ws phone  to access  the accounts  at around 
the time of the disputed transactions was closely  linked to them. That means that whoever 
was responsible for the transactions was also able to access  the accounts using Mr Ws 
mobile phone.  Its most unlikely in my view that someone unknown to Mr W was able to 
obtain his cards and their PINs and his phone without his knowledge or authority. He hasnt 
suggested that his phone  was missing at any point and hasnt provided any detail about the 
circumstances in which he might  have lost his cards. I note too that it was several  days  
before Mr W reported the One Click payment to Santander, even though his account was 
being monitored from his phone. 
Further, the investigator identified that the One Click payment was used  to fund a betting 
account. Mr W has said he didnt recognise the account, but it was set up in is name and 
using his contact  details. 
For these reasons, I think it more likely than not that Mr W made  the disputed transactions 
himself or authorised  someone  else to make them. In the circumstances, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable of Santander to remove his banking facilities. But, even if Id reached a 
different conclusion about how the transactions came about, I still think the bank would have 
been justified  in taking steps to prevent further  loss. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK plc to take any further steps  to resolve  
Mr Ws complaint.  Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2569397