K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  Nationwide  Building Society  gave them a sealed  bag which  
shouldve contained  £1,000 cash but it was £100  short.
background
On 18 November 2019 I issued a provisional  decision  saying  that subject to any further 
comments or evidence from Mr and Mrs S or Nationwide, I intended to uphold  this complaint. 
I outlined the background  to their complaint as follows:
Mr and Mrs S wanted to close  their Nationwide account. When  Mr S went into the local 
branch on 3 August 2018 Nationwide  gave him three bags which it said contained £3,000. 
But when he took the money to another bank to pay it in the following day one of the bags 
only had £900  in it. He sent us a copy of a signed  note from the other bank dated 4 August 
2018 saying £100 short in £20 notes when opened  sealed bag.
Nationwide said there werent any discrepancies in their tills that day. And the bags were 
signed and sealed by two members of staff.  It noted  Mr S was happy to accept the money 
this way. So it didnt  think itd done  anything  wrong.
Our investigator didnt  think Nationwide  had done  anything wrong either.  He said Nationwide  
had provided evidence to confirm there were no discrepancies  with the cashiers  till or 
branch records on that day.
Mr S wasnt  happy with this. He said the sealed bag was not opened until he took it to 
another bank.  And he wanted to know why Nationwide was using sealed bags from another 
provider. So he thought the bags  had come sealed  from that provider and not counted by 
Nationwide.
Our investigator said Nationwide told him it sources unsealed money  bags from various third 
party suppliers. All cash deliveries to the branch are in sealed bags which are opened and 
counted under the supervision  of two members of staff. The bags are then resealed and 
signed by the same two members of staff. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings based on the evidence available at the time were as follows:
Mr S has sent us a photo of the sealed bag which has two sets of initials in the space for the 
customers name and a date of 1 August 2018.  But it doesnt have any signature in the box 
marked checked bysealed by. Hes sent photos  of the other two bags which have the 
same initials but the date of 2 August.
Nationwide told us it checked its cashier  and branch records  on the day which  showed both 
balanced. It said it checked transactions between the 3 August  when  the withdrawal was 
made and 6 August when the complaint  was made.  It said there  were no differences keyed 
in this time. So it said it could not prove that one of the envelopes was £100 short. 
Ref: DRN25155082But the sealed bag which was £100  short appears  to have been checked two days 
previously. I asked Nationwide for further  information about its systems for checking the 
sealed bags. It responded  with the following  information which  Ive summarised.
The bags are all sealed in branch under dual control. They are put though a note counting 
machine in the presence of two staff members and then sealed, dated and initialled by those 
staff members. The exact position of those initials does not change  the fact that the bags 
have been sealed and checked under dual control. They are not rechecked before handing 
them to a customer although Nationwide always asks if the customer  wants the bag opened 
and counted in front of them. It checked  its records and said there  hadnt been  any cash 
discrepancies on either  1 or 2 August 2018, the date of the initials  on the three  bags.
When the evidence  is contradictory as it is here I have to make  a decision on what I think is 
most likely to have happened. 
I can see that there are a number of measures in place  for ensuring a customer  was given 
the correct amount of cash.  But when  Mr S went back  to Nationwide with the signed  slip 
from the cashier with the other  bank I wouldve expected it to contact the other  bank so a full 
investigation could  take place. When we asked Nationwide  why it didnt do that it told us itd 
given Mr S the opportunity to count the money  in the branch, the sealed bags were signed 
and checked by two colleagues.  And the cashiers till balanced. But I dont think  that was 
enough once hed presented it with evidence that one of the bags was £100 short. 
This Service contacted  the cashier of the third party  bank. Unfortunately  due to the length of 
time since this happened  (more than a year ago) the cashier  cant  remember  the transaction  
but said that when a customer brings  in pre sealed  bags the bag is opened in front of the 
customer and the notes counted though  a machine. If the amount  is incorrect  the notes are 
then counted manually. If the customer wanted confirmation of this the plastic bag with 
confirmation of the difference would  be give to the customer. 
There isnt any dispute that the three  bags  Mr S took to the third party  bank were from 
Nationwide. The signed note from the third party bank  makes it clear the bag was still sealed  
when Mr S took it in. If the bag had been  tampered with I wouldve expected the cashier  to 
have noticed that. So Im satisfied that on a balance of probabilities  the signed note and the 
photos of the sealed  bags is sufficient evidence for me to find that one of the bags was £100 
short. In those circumstances  I intend to order that Nationwide pay Mr and Mrs S £100 and a 
further £50 for the trouble and upset its caused  them.
Nationwide has accepted my decision.  Mr S said he thought Nationwide had got off lightly  for 
the failings in their procedures.  And he said it still hadnt altered those procedures. But we 
cant make  Nationwide  change those procedures. We try to sort out individual complaints  
between consumers and financial institutions  where the consumer thinks he or she has lost 
out. We cant comment on processes which apply to all its customers. Thats the role of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. But Ive looked at the experience of Mr and Mrs S with those 
processes and Ive based my decision on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN25155083my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. To put matters right Nationwide  Building  Society  
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S £100 to make up the shortfall.
Pay Mr and Mrs S £50 for the trouble  and upset its caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 January 2020. 
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2515508