K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about the length  of time it took Allianz  Insurance  Plc to settle a claim  
they made on their home insurance policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 28 January 2019, part of which  is detailed  below
Allianzs claims and complaints are handled  by a third party  company, but as Allianz is 
ultimately responsible  for this complaint, I will refer to it throughout. References  I make to 
Allianz also include the actions of this third party company.
Mr and Mrs S have  had a bespoke buildings insurance policy  for foster carers with Allianz  
since 2014. 
In August  2016,  during  some routine work  on their bathroom, their plumber discovered a 
leak under  the bath.  The leak seemed to have started some  time before but he wasnt  able 
to identify exactly when.
In September  2016, Mr and Mrs S made a claim on their buildings insurance policy  to cover 
the damage caused by the leak. Allianz  sent a loss assessor to assess  the damage  and it 
provided a report which  recommended  that the claim  should be settled. The report  also 
confirmed that no additional damage had been  caused because of the late notification to 
Allianz.
In October  2016, Allianz confirmed the claim was covered for the amount quoted by 
Mr and Mrs S builder  less the policys £250 excess. It instructed the loss assessor to go 
ahead and deal with the repairs. 
A period of confusion between Allianz and the loss assessor then followed and during this 
time Mr S was chasing  Allianz for updates. 
In February 2017,  Mr S chased  Allianz again  to find out what was happening. He told Allianz 
the loss assessor  had said they could accept  them  to do the work or get someone else to do 
it. Allianz told him theyd  need to provide a number of quotes if they decided to get someone 
else to do the work.  At this point,  because they hadnt been told this before, Mr and Mrs S 
complained. 
Mr S sent a quote  to the loss assessor  on 28 March  2017. Towards the end of April,  having 
not heard  anything again, Mr S chased  Allianz  for a further update.  It said it hadnt seen a 
copy of the quote  so it got in contact  with its loss assessor which  confirmed it had received 
the quote at the end of March. Allianz  then said it would be making the payment shortly.  
There was then a further delay  in the payment being made due to an administrative error at 
Allianz. Eventually the payment was made  to Mr and Mrs S in mid May 2017.
By this time, Mr and Mrs S had complained to us as they werent happy with the way their 
claim had been  handled.  Initially, our investigator said he thought Allianz  should  refund the 
£250 excess charge  and, accepting the delays had mainly been between  it and its loss 
assessor, Allianz agreed.  But Mr and Mrs S said they didnt think  this accurately reflected the 
impact on them.
Ref: DRN26411082Mr S explained that he and his wife acted as foster  parents  and they hadnt been  able to 
foster children all the time the bathroom  had been  out of use while they waited  for the claim 
to be settled. And as they received financial sums  in relation to the fostering  he estimated 
their financial  losses to be in the region of £20,000. 
Our investigator reconsidered his initial findings  in the light of what  Mr and Mrs S had said.  
He concluded  that it would be fair for Allianz  to pay Mr and Mrs S £500 per week  from 
29 November, when  he thought the payment  could have been made, until the date it actually 
was paid. 
He also said it should pay an additional  £500 per week  for five weeks  to cover some  of the 
further delay because Mr and Mrs S building contractor wasnt  able to start work as quickly 
as he would have  done if the settlement had been made on time.
Allianz didnt think  this was right, so it asked  for an ombudsman to make a decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant  law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS)  
states, in clause 8.1.1
An insurer  must:
(1)handle claims promptly and fairly..
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed
In this case, the claim for the damage  to the bathroom was accepted by Allianz and paid 
some time ago but it acknowledges it caused  delays  in the settlement being  paid. 
Mr and Mrs S say these delays caused  them  financial  loss as they werent able to foster  
children until the bathroom  was repaired. While financial loss isnt specifically covered by the 
policy, if a loss is caused by an insurer well consider whether its appropriate for it to pay 
compensation to make  up for the loss. 
So what  I need to decide here is what compensation Allianz should pay Mr and Mrs S for the 
losses they incurred  because of the delays it caused.
I dont believe it will be possible  for me to calculate  this figure  with clinical accuracy; there 
are too many assumptions  and variables for me to do that. And Im mindful that my role is to 
make a determination as to what I consider  to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
There are a number of things I need  to consider to reach a decision  on this case;
Ref: DRN26411083the time period over which Mr and Mrs S losses occurred  due to the delays  caused  by 
Allianz
the proportion  of time that they would have had foster  children in their care over the 
period of delay
the likely  number of children they would  have fostered over this same  period
the proportion  of the income they normally received that theyve lost out on
Ill deal with each  of these in turn.
the time period over which Mr and Mrs S losses occurred
To decide how much of this period can reasonably be considered  impacted by the delay  
I must first decide when  I think the claim should  reasonably have been settled if everything 
had happened  the way it should.
Allianz confirmed cover  for the loss on 25 October.  But because of some  confusion between  
Allianz and its loss assessors,  Mr and Mrs S werent  asked to provide a quote  until 
28 February. They sent the quote  to the business on 28 March, some  four weeks  later.  
After that, there was a further  delay caused  by lack of communication  between Allianz and 
its loss assessors together with some  administration errors. This meant settlement wasnt  
actually made until 22 May, some  30 weeks after cover for the loss was confirmed.
If things had gone as they should  have, Im satisfied a five week  period for Mr and Mrs S to 
provide a quote and for the settlement to be paid, would be fair. 
Ive therefore  concluded  the delay caused  by Allianz  is the difference  between these two 
time periods and that is 25 weeks.
Allianz says the weeks before 28 February  when Mr and Mrs S first informed it they were  
losing money should  be excluded from the calculation. But I dont agree. Allianzs call notes 
show Mr S was chasing for settlement of the claim at regular intervals  during this time. He 
says he received assurances that the claim would be paid shortly. 
Given that Allianz had agreed to cover the claim on 25 October, it seems  reasonable to me 
that Mr and Mrs S relied on these  reassurances and didnt see the need to inform  Allianz,  
specifically as they were  dealing  with their loss assessor. Mr S says it was only as time went 
on that they got increasingly concerned about how slow the process was becoming  and the 
impact this was having on their finances.  
So, taking this all into account  Im not satisfied  that, on balance,  Allianz handled  
Mr and Mrs S claim promptly and fairly.
At the time payment for the claim was made, Mr and Mrs S chosen  builders were very busy 
and werent able to start the work for two months. Its been suggested Allianz should also 
pay for this delay but I dont agree. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Allianz to be 
held responsible for these additional  weeks as Mr and Mrs S could  have employed  the 
services of another builder to complete the work  more quickly.
the proportion  of time that they would have had foster  children in their care over the period of 
delay
Ref: DRN26411084Its not possible to say with certainty  what proportion of this period Mr and Mrs S would have  
had children in their care. Placements  vary in length and there may be gaps between  
placements but equally these may also run fairly consecutively.  
Having spoken  to the county council which places children in Mr and Mrs S area, Ive been 
told theres a national shortage of foster carers  so demand for their services is high. So it 
seems likely to me gaps between placements  would be relatively short.
I think a fair way to reach an estimate  for the proportion of time is to look at what  happened  
in the previous year. During that year,  Mr and Mrs S had children in their care for 43 weeks 
out of 52  thats 83% of the time. 
So Ive concluded  this is a fair percentage to apply to the delay period.
the likely  number of children they would  have fostered over this same  period
 
Mr and Mrs S are approved  to have three children in their care at any one time but the actual 
number will vary,  often  dependent  on the size of sibling groups requiring care. From the 
information Mr and Mrs S have supplied it seems  that for the majority of the time they have 
two children in their care.
So Ive concluded  two children concurrently placed  is a fair assumption to apply for the delay 
period.
the proportion  of the income they normally received  that theyve lost out on
While children are in their care, Mr and Mrs S receive an income to pay for their professional 
services and to cover  expenditure incurred in the care they provide. The income  is divided 
into three parts. The county council has helpfully provided an explanation  of each of these as 
follows:
Mainstream professional fee  this is the fee they receive for undertaking their role 
Maintenance allowance  this is a payment they receive to cover  the financial  impact of 
caring for children
Enhanced discretionary payment  this is received where the children in care need 
increased supervision. It represents  an uplift in both the professional  fee and the 
maintenance allowance to reflect this
So during  the period they werent able to foster children, Mr and Mrs S missed out on their 
professional fee income and so I need  to take account of this in the calculation of their loss. 
Im satisfied its fair to account for 100%  of this income in my calculations  as its a fee for 
services provided, distinct from the allowance  for providing care.  But Im satisfied  its fair not 
to consider the loss of maintenance allowance as this is purely to cover the costs  of caring 
for the children.
The enhanced payment  includes an element of professional  fee albeit the split between  that 
and maintenance  allowance  isnt defined.  So I think a fair and proportionate approach would  
be a 50/50 split and that means Ill include the loss of 50% of this income in my calculations. 
Ref: DRN26411085Mr and Mrs S have  provided a selection of payment advices showing the money received 
from the county council. Looking at these,  its clear the amount received each week  varies 
slightly. So Ive taken  an average of these and that gives  a weekly income of:
£147.33 per week  per child for mainstream  professional fees and
£103.28 per week  per child for enhanced  discretionary payments 
Im satisfied these are fair figures to base my calculations on.
the calculation
The weekly  income  Mr and Mrs S have missed out on per child is;
(100% x £147.33) + (50% x £103.28) = £198.97.
For the purposes of this calculation Ive assumed there would have been two children in 
Mr and Mrs S care so their lost income  each week is; 
£198.97 x 2 = £397.94
The period  over which Allianz caused  delays is 25 weeks.  So the loss over that period based 
on two children being fostered by Mr and Mrs S, 100% of the time would be;
£397.94 x 25 = £9,948.50
But for reasons  Ive explained Im satisfied  a fair and proportionate approach is to determine  
that Mr and Mrs S have two children  in their care 83% of the time: 
£9,948.50 x 83% = £8,257.26
So, taking everything  into account Im satisfied that a fair and reasonable determination in all 
the circumstances is that Allianz should  pay Mr and Mrs S £8,257.26 to compensate  them 
for the loss of income  they experienced because of the delays  it caused.
Mr S has said, because  the delays caused by Allianz caused a drastic loss of income, he 
and his wife were placed under unnecessary stress and pressure. I understand why that 
would be the case. So in addition to the payment to cover the loss of income,  I plan to 
instruct Allianz to pay Mr and Mrs S an additional £250 to reflect the trouble and upset they 
experienced because of the considerable delay it caused
responses to my provisional  decision
Allianz responded to my provisional decision,  saying, in summary, it had nothing further to 
add.
Mr and Mrs S also responded and accepted  the majority of what I said but pointed  out, in 
summary, they thought if Allianz  had asked for a quote sooner, they may have been able to 
obtain this at the same time as its loss adjusters were considering their claim.  They  say that 
would have meant some of the period would have run concurrently rather  than 
consecutively. They go on to say, because of this, an additional five weeks  should be added 
to the period of delay caused  by Allianz. That would  mean the total delay would have been 
30 weeks not 25. 
Ref: DRN26411086my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge what Mr and Mrs S say in their response.  I can see how things might have 
played out the way they suggest if Allianz had asked for a quote sooner. But its equally 
possible other things  may have prevented  this from happening. Overall, Im not satisfied I 
can say its more likely than not that their suggestion would have happened in reality.  
As I explained before, my role here is to reach  a determination on what I consider fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. I agree Allianz should have asked for a quote earlier  
and this is one of the factors Ive taken into account in deciding  on the sum it needs to pay 
for the trouble and upset  it caused. But Im not persuaded to change  the period over which 
Ive based my calculation.  Im satisfied the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision is 
a fair and reasonable way for this complaint to be settled.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  Allianz Insurance  Plc to pay Mr 
and Mrs S
£8,257.26  for the loss it caused
oInterest on this amount at the simple rate of 8% per annum from the date of the 
claim to the date it makes  the payment*
£250 for the trouble  and upset it caused  them
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
* If Allianz Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr and Mrs S 
a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2641108