K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Barclays had to make  it clear to Mr H that he had a choice about  it. 
But Mr H says he wasnt told he was taking out PPI with the credit card and so it must have 
been added  without his knowledge  or consent.
Barclays has sent us a copy of Mr Hs application form for the credit card. This included a 
section on PPI with yes and no boxes to be ticked  to show whether Mr H wanted  to take it 
out. And the yes  box has been  ticked.
Mr H has said the form was filled out by a member  of Barclays  staff, not by him, and that the 
box couldve  been ticked after he signed  the form. But if Mr H didnt  want  the PPI I think  he 
couldve ticked the no box. So I dont think theres enough evidence to say the yes box 
was ticked against  Mr Hs wishes.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think Barclays did make it clear  to Mr H that he had a choice 
about the PPI. And that Mr H chose to take it, knowing  he didnt have to.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr H, so it had to check that it was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of Mr Hs circumstances at the time, I think  that the PPI was 
right for him. For example, he doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the exclusions  
to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer  than hes told us he 
wouldve been entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant he didnt need to rely on his family 
or any savings he had to make his repayments  if he wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for him, Barclays had to give Mr H clear information  about 
the PPI. Its possible the information it gave him about the terms, costs  and benefits  of the 
policy wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. But, for the same  reasons I think  it was right for 
him, it seems like the PPI would have been useful  for Mr H if something  went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
Mr H off taking  it out.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr H, that 
was unfair.
Ref: DRN21243222To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019. 
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2124322