K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains that she was trapped  by NRAM Limited on its high standard variable rate 
(SVR). Ms N says she been a mortgage  prisoner and shes  struggled financially because  
NRAM wont offer her new interest  rate products.
Ms N would like a refund of the extra interest  she feels shes  paid on her mortgage.
background
In 2006 Ms N took out a Together mortgage with Northern Rock. The mortgage was for 
around £188,000. Of this around £166,000 was on a capital repayment  basis,  and around 
£22,000 was on interest  only terms. The mortgage  was given over a 23-year term. 
Ms Ns mortgage was taken out on a fixed interest rate of 4.99% until 1 June 2009. Ms N 
also borrowed around £29,000 from Northern Rock as an unsecured  loan. This Together  
loan was stapled to the mortgage and attracted the same interest rate as the mortgage.  
In 2008 Northern Rock was nationalised  during  the credit crisis. In 2010 Ms Ns mortgage 
was transferred to NRAM Limited.
In 2018 Ms N took out a mortgage with another lender,  and she repaid her mortgage  and 
Together loan with NRAM. Ms N complained about the interest rate shed been paying  
around the same time. Ms N said shed  been unable to move her mortgage  to another lender  
for around  ten years due to problems shed had with her credit history.  This had meant shed 
been trapped on the reversionary rate and this had put pressure on her financially.
NRAM issued its final response  to Ms Ns complaint on 18 January 2019. In it NRAM said, it 
hasnt offered new interest rate products  to any customers since  Northern Rock was 
nationalised in 2008. It also said it never  guaranteed  that new products, including interest 
rate deals, would  be made available and this would always  have been dependent on Ms N 
meeting its lending criteria.
NRAM didnt uphold  the part of the complaint  about its SVR being  unfairly  high. It said its 
SVR is broadly in line with comparable lenders. And NRAM didnt think  any interest should 
be refunded to Ms N. Our investigator  didnt think this complaint  should be upheld.  He 
thought it wouldnt  be fair to hold NRAM responsible for the fact other  lenders wouldnt offer 
Ms N a new mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should  say that I have not looked at Ms Ns complaint about the fairness of the level 
of NRAMs SVR. This matter has already been addressed in a final decision issued by 
another ombudsman  on 17 December 2018. Ms Ns mortgage was repaid within  days  of the 
ombudsmans final decision.
Ref: DRN20488072Was Ms N unfairly trapped by NRAM on its SVR?
I have considered the part of Ms Ns complaint that she was unfairly  trapped  by NRAM on 
its SVR and that it wouldnt make any new interest products available to her. Ms N has 
referred to herself  as a mortgage prisoner.  
Ive thought carefully about Ms Ns situation, and Im sympathetic to the arguments that she 
makes. Ms Ns said that she tried several times  since Northern Rocks collapse to move  her 
mortgage to other lenders. Ms Ns said that problems with her credit history,  and the fact 
shed previously been in a debt management  plan, had been given to her by other 
prospective lenders  as reasons why they wouldnt agree to offer her a mortgage.
Typically, if Ms N was unhappy  with the rate of her lenders  SVR shed have been able to 
apply for a new interest rate product  with her lender or remortgage elsewhere.  Unfortunately, 
in this case she couldnt do either  of those things. 
Im aware there isnt an early repayment  charge  (ERC) anymore that would have prevented 
Ms N moving this mortgage. I can also see from the mortgage documentation that the last 
fixed rate product (with  an ERC) that applied to this mortgage expired on 1 June 2009. 
But Ms N hasnt said that there were barriers in her mortgage contract that stopped her 
going elsewhere. Shes said she was unable to move her mortgage because  of other 
practical barriers, particular to her own financial situation  and which  appear to be related to 
things that have happened since she took this mortgage out.
Because Ms N couldnt get a mortgage elsewhere, shes  complained  that NRAM should 
have made  new interest rate products available to its customers. NRAMs told Ms N that its 
not an active lender  and hasnt offered any new interest rates or further lending to any of its 
customers since the collapse of Northern Rock. 
NRAMs also explained to us, in considerably more detail than it gave to Ms N, further 
reasons for this. Its said there  are competition  laws which prevent a government-owned 
lender being in direct competition  with other  banks.  For this reason, it says it cant  offer new 
rates. And, to that extent,  its not treating Ms N any differently  to any of its other  customers.
Ive looked carefully  at Ms Ns mortgage agreement. Theres nothing in Ms Ns mortgage
agreement that says she was entitled  to a new rate  and thats  also true of most other 
lenders mortgage  agreements too. Theres also nothing in the regulators rules that requires 
NRAM to offer new interest rates.
Through no fault of her own,  Ms N ended up with a closed book lender, owned by the
government, that didnt  offer her new rates. NRAM was her lender until the mortgage  was 
repaid in December 2018,  and legitimately so. It was unable  to offer new interest rates  to 
any customers, including Ms N. While I appreciate the dilemma that Ms N found herself in, 
and her frustration that no products were available to her, I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint against  NRAM.
Ref: DRN20488073Is NRAM responsible for the fact Ms N couldnt remortgage elsewhere?
Ms Ns said shes  aware that there was a shift in lending appetite since  the financial crisis. 
There have also been significant changes to mortgage regulation. A primary driver for these  
changes in regulation has been to try to make sure mortgage lenders are acting responsibly 
when granting  mortgages  and to protect  consumers  from unfair treatment. These  factors  
have made  it more difficult for some consumers who took out mortgages before the credit 
crisis to be able to get a new mortgage in current market conditions.  Regrettably Ms N has 
experienced how difficult it can be to get a mortgage in the current  lending  environment.
I think NRAM has tried to help Ms N to explore looking to move  her mortgage elsewhere. 
Both parties  agree that NRAM put Ms N in touch with a broker  to discuss her options  and to 
potentially refinance  and repay her mortgage. NRAMs notes record this discussion with a 
broker happened in 2016. Ms N says she doesnt  think the information she was given by the 
broker was helpful,  and she says she was told to borrow more  money.  NRAMs said it wasnt  
responsible for what the broker told Ms N. I appreciate  that Ms N didnt agree with the 
brokers comments and she chose not to pursue this course of action at the time. But I think 
NRAM acted responsibly by providing  Ms N with access  to expert  help when it did. 
Im pleased to hear that Ms N has now managed to take out a new mortgage elsewhere  and 
that shes managed  to repay both her mortgage  and her Together loan. Its also really  
encouraging that Ms N will be saving money  every month as a result  of the lower interest 
rate shes  managed to get on this new borrowing. 
I can appreciate why Ms N questions  whether  its fair that she couldnt get such  a good deal 
sooner. However,  I dont  think it would be fair to hold NRAM responsible for Ms N not being  
able to get a mortgage  with another lender before. It strikes me that Ms Ns difficulty  getting 
a mortgage from other lenders has been as a result of changes in the appetite of other 
lenders and a tightening  of the regulatory  environment in which new mortgages  are taken 
out, as well as difficulties with her own financial  position. 
Overall, I dont  think I can fairly hold NRAM responsible for the fact other lenders wouldnt 
agree to make a new mortgage available to Ms N at an earlier date. I dont think it was within  
NRAMs influence to make another lender offer Ms N a new mortgage sooner.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2048807