K820x#14complaint
Ms K complains  that West Bromwich Building Society (West  Bromwich) mis-sold  her a 
regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out by Ms K in 2003. Neither 
party are sure where the policy  was sold. The policy and mortgage ended  in March 2005.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Ms K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ks case.
I have decided not to uphold Ms Ks complaint. Here  are my reasons:
 I cant be sure what was discussed  between Ms K and West Bromwich. But based on 
what I have seen, Ms K would have had to sign for MPPI on a separate  application 
form, agreeing to have  the policy. I can see on this occasion that she did this. 
 Its completely understandable that Ms Ks recollections are not detailed as the sale 
took place a number of years ago. And because of this and the detail given in the sales 
documentation including the MPPI application form, I dont think the evidence is strong 
enough for me safely to say West Bromwich  didnt explain that PPI was an optional 
feature. So I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint on this point.
 Moving on, I need to consider next whether West Bromwich provided  advice  to                 
Ms K or not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to 
ensure the policy  was suitable  for Ms K. West Bromwich  says it gave advice so I will 
proceed that this was the case.  West Bromwich also had to ensure that it provided 
information to Ms K in a clear, fair and not misleading way however, so that she could 
make an informed decision  on whether she wanted  the policy. 
 And based on the information Ive seen,  I think the policy  was suitable for Ms K. 
 I say this because  I think Ms K would have found some use in obtaining the policy to 
cover her against  sickness, unemployment  and accidents. Having it in place would  
mean Ms K could use any other  provisions  she may have had (6 months full and 6 
months half sick pay along  with some  additional monthly  income)  to cover her other  
expenses. I am persuaded  she would  have found some value in having the policy  at 
least enough that it wouldnt have made the policy  unsuitable for her.
 There were  no other significant  or limiting terms that would  have made the policy  
unsuitable for Ms K or would have put her off from buying it either  that I can see.
Ref: DRN21187372 West Bromwich  has provided our service  with some information  on the costs of the 
policy, but I havent  seen enough  that these costs  were disclosed  clearly to Ms K at the 
time of sale. That said even if they were, I dont think  it would have put her off from 
taking the policy for the reasons I have already given.
Overall, even though  I know  it will be a disappointment to Ms K, I dont think  she has been 
mis-sold MPPI for the reasons given.
my decision
I do not uphold  Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2118737