K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  they were mis-sold a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy  by 
Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide).
background
Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 1992. At the same  time they took a 
PPI policy  which would  have covered  their repayments for up to two years  at a time if Mr T 
couldnt work.
Mr and Mrs T say they didnt know they had been  sold PPI. They say they didnt need it 
because they could manage  their mortgage repayments even if Mr T wasnt working. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs T 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaint. I realise  this will be disappointing for them, so I will explain why Ive reached  this 
decision.
Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage in 1992.  It had a special preferential interest rate on the 
condition that Mr and Mrs T also took buildings and content insurance. It also offered a year 
of free PPI. After the free period ended Mr and Mrs T were  charged for the PPI, until they 
cancelled it in late 1995.
Mr and Mrs T say they didnt know they had the PPI. Over 27 years have passed since the 
sale, so unsurprisingly  neither party has retained  any of the original documents  from the 
sale. It is not reasonable to expect either party to have done so, although  this does mean  I 
have to make my decision on limited information.  
Nationwide has provided a copy of the information  leaflet for the mortgage. I can see from 
this that the free PPI was clearly stated on here  indeed it was a selling point of the product. 
Nationwide has also provided  a sample copy of the insurance schedule Mr and Mrs T would 
have received when their free PPI commenced.  This included clear wording stating that 
premiums would be payable after 12 months. 
In addition, Nationwide has explained  that Mr and Mrs T would have received renewal 
documents for the policy  each year about  six weeks before the anniversary of the inception 
of the PPI. A new schedule was also sent each year. Mr and Mrs T would  have received 
these at least three times before  they cancelled the policy.
I think its possible Mr and Mrs T forgot that they had the PPI during the free period. But I 
think Nationwide are likely to have  taken sufficient steps to remind  them that the free period 
was ending and that they had a choice about  whether to continue paying  premiums. Mr and 
Mrs T were clearly aware of the policy in 1995 when they cancelled it. I think  if theyd been  
Ref: DRN20920062paying for something they hadnt  asked for or wanted they would have complained  at that 
point, or when they received the new policy schedules and renewal documents in the 
preceding years.
So while I appreciate Mr and Mrs T are unhappy  that I cannot  base my decision on 
documents specific to them and their policy I have to decide, on the balance  of probabilities, 
what is most likely  to have happened  on the information available  to me. And on this 
information I think its most likely Mr and Mrs T bought the PPI knowing they had a choice 
about it. I can understand why they might  not remember this over a quarter of a century 
later. 
Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs T a personal  recommendation  about  the PPI, so it didnt 
need to take steps to make sure it was right for them. But it did need to make  sure Mr and 
Mrs T had all the information they needed to make  their own decision. Its possible Mr and 
Mrs T didnt  get all this information, but this doesnt mean I should automatically uphold  their 
complaint. I have to consider what Mr and Mrs T would most likely have done if theyd had 
all the information  they needed.  
Looking at Mr Ts circumstances (whom  the policy covered), I think  the policy  was suitable 
for him. So I dont think more information would have changed their minds about buying  it. I 
say this because:
Mr T was eligible  for the policy and wasnt affected by any conditions which might 
have made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, such as those relating 
to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr T had sick pay from his employer. But the policy would have paid out in addition 
to this and potentially for much longer than his full sick pay would have lasted;
Mr T is likely to have  been eligible for some  redundancy pay. And Mr and Mrs T had 
some savings  they could have used if Mr T was out of work. But, again,  the PPI 
would have paid out in addition  to that, leaving any redundancy pay or savings  to 
cover other uninsured  expenses;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  around 
the same  time. It was flexible, because it could be amended  or cancelled  at any time 
without a financial penalty.
So, on balance, I dont  think Mr and Mrs T lost out as a result of anything  Nationwide might 
have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint so it follows that Nationwide  Building Society 
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 October  2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2092006