K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Swinton  Group  Ltd mis-sold him a home emergency policy.
 
background
Mr B had a home insurance policy but decided  to take out a home emergency policy  for 
added protection.  
He made  a claim under the policy  for a toilet leak and a temporary  repair was carried  out. 
Mr B felt that the policy  had been  mis-sold to him as he wasnt  covered  for a permanent 
repair. 
Our investigator explained that Mr B was covered for emergencies  and this was set out in 
the policy.
Mr B appealed. He said that the leaflet  he was given at the sale said he would be covered 
for plumbing  problems relating to leaking pipes,  central heating  systems or toilets. He said 
that nowhere was it written that if he had more  than one toilet  he wouldnt be covered, so he 
reiterated that he felt he was paying for something  that did not cover  him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Having done so Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Swinton had a responsibility to provide clear information about the cover being provided, the 
cost and any significant terms or conditions. The information provided  to any potential 
buyer must put them  in a position to make an informed decision about  whether or not to
take the policy. 
The policy was taken  out during a face to face meeting  and there are no available notes of 
that meeting.  So Ive looked carefully  at the documents that Mr B was provided with when he 
took out the policy.
First the leaflet that Mr B was given does say that youre covered for plumbing problems 
relating to leaking pipes, central heating systems or toilets but it also clearly states that the 
cover is only for the cost of emergency repairs. Emergency  is defined  in his policy  as: 
The result of a sudden and unforeseen incident at the property which immediately:
1. Exposes the insured  or a third party to a risk to their health or;
2. Creates a risk of loss or damage  to the property and/or any of your belongings or;
3. Renders the property uninhabitable.
Im not considering  the claim here  that is the responsibility of the policy  underwriter. The 
underwriters didnt sell the policy, Swinton  did. But I note that the underwriter authorised an 
emergency repair. Emergency repair is defined in the policy  as work undertaken by an 
authorised contractor to resolve the emergency  by completing a temporary  repair.  The 
policy makes clear  that these are repairs undertaken to resolve an emergency  there was 
no cover  for a permanent  repair.
Ref: DRN21403082Mr B feels  that he wasnt covered because he had more than one toilet, this is not so. He 
was covered in the event of an emergency.  In the particular  circumstances  of his claim the 
fact that he had another usable toilet meant  a temporary  repair was appropriate. Additionally 
the policy covered  other types of home  emergency, such  as heating or hot water  failure  or 
gas leaks inside the home. 
I havent disregarded the fact that Mr B says he wasnt told the policy only cover  
emergencies. However the adviser  had to discuss certain things during the sale, one of 
these was to explain  what a home  emergency  was. Ive looked  too at the policy document  
and I cant say that its mis-leading on this point. The documentation is clear.   On balance I 
dont find it likely that Mr B was mis-led at the point of sale. 
In all the circumstances here, I dont  find that Swinton Group Ltd has done anything  wrong  or 
that the policy was mis-sold to Mr B.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2140308