K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about Julius Baer International Limited. Hes unhappy with the charges 
theyve applied to his investment account  and the service hes received.
background
Mr S opened  an investment account  with Julius Baer in October 2014. The ongoing 
(management) fee charges  applied to his account  were about £650  to £800 per quarter up 
until the end of 2016. It then increased to about  £4,100 and £3,100 respectively for the next 
two quarters.
In June 2017 Mr S arranged for his investment portfolio  to be transferred to another provider. 
Julius Baer applied transfer charges  of about £800.
Mr S complained to Julius Baer about the transfer  charges and the management fees 
applied to his investment  portfolio. He said a cash deposit of about £1 million  that was made 
to his account in December  2016,  which came from the sale of a property, was never  
intended to be invested as part of his portfolio but it was to be used for further  investment  in 
a property project. He didnt think the management  fees shouldve been  applied to this cash 
amount. Mr S wanted  the fees to be recalculated on his invested portfolio, excluding  the 
cash, with the difference refunded - which he estimated to be in the region of about  £6,000.
Julius Baer responded to Mr S complaints  on 10 August  and 27 November 2017. They  said 
they couldnt waive the exit fee as it forms part of the terms of the account  which  were  set 
out to him when  it was opened.  But they explained  that the fees had recently been reduced  
from CHF100 per position to CHF30 per position.  So they said the new rates  would be 
applied to the transfers and the differences refunded.
Julius Baer also explained that the account charged  an annual fee based as a percentage of 
the value of the assets under management.  And that this fee is taken quarterly based on the 
value of the portfolio at the time of the charge. They said,  as per the terms of the account, 
that cash is included  in the valuation  for fee purposes.  So although they noted Mr S 
comments about the intended  purpose  for the cash, they explained that services  were 
provided during  the time it was held with them. But, as a goodwill gesture, they offered to 
refund the advisory fees charged on the cash balance  within  the portfolio during the first two 
quarters of 2017. This came to about  £2,200.
As Mr S remained unhappy, he contacted our service about the matter and raised further  
issues that hed experienced with Julius Baer. This included the level of service he received 
from Julius Baer dropping  after his adviser  left in January 2017  even though  they still 
charged him the full management  fee. And that under the terms of the account  he shouldve  
received, at minimum, quarterly reviews  but he doesnt think this happened.  He also said 
Julius Baer increased the fees for transferring his investment  portfolio  to another  provider 
without warning  and although theyve  offered  to refund some  of these fees they never said 
how much.
Julius Baer, in summary,  added:
The decision to hold cash  in the portfolio is recorded as being deliberate in order to 
defensively position the portfolio and the risks were explained  to Mr S and he 
understood them. Their records also show Mr S told them  in April 2017 of his 
Ref: DRN20250652intention to use about £850,000 of the cash for property investment in the next few 
months. As a further gesture of goodwill, they offered to refund the second  quarters 
custody fee (about £900) charged on the cash  balance as this is when it is first 
shown the cash  would  be used for this purpose.
They didnt agree there was a drop in the level of service provided to Mr S. They said 
they were in touch  with Mr S on a regular basis, almost fortnightly, during the period 
of January and May 2017. And that the quarterly portfolio reviews were  conducted  
resulting in personal recommendations  being made to Mr S. So they thought theyd 
fulfilled their obligations under the terms of the account.
They didnt increase the transfer fees but decided to reduce them for all clients and 
so honoured the new transfer  fees for Mr S. The difference (about £550) was 
refunded in October 2017 by being  paid in to Mr S account with his new provider.  
Our investigator looked in to the matter but he didnt  think Julius Baer had to do anything 
further. Although  he was understanding  towards  Mr S views on the matter, he said he hadnt 
seen anything to show that the cash would be exempt from the management fees. And the 
account literature  confirms that cash top-ups are considered part of the portfolio   and so the 
relevant fees would be applicable to it. The investigator also said that he couldnt  see the 
change to the transfer fees had led to Mr S suffering a loss. And that, while  Mr S may have 
different expectations  as to how his portfolio would be managed, he didnt think he could 
fairly say that the reviews hadnt taken place or that Julius Baer had acted outside the terms 
of the account.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator  and so the matter has been passed  to me to review.
Before I go on to explain my findings  on this complaint,  Id like to clarify that Ill only be 
looking at whats happened in respect  of Mr S account. So although Mr S has raised 
concerns about  family members experiencing similar problems, my decision wont  be 
addressing or commenting on this. They will have  raise  their dissatisfaction  with Julius  Baer 
separately should they want to take it any further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read and considered  the whole file, 
but Ill concentrate  my comments  on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific 
point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think  about  it, but because  I dont 
think I need to comment  on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
First Id like to acknowledge Mr S dissatisfaction with whats  happened.  I understand he 
feels hes lost out financially  due the returns he received on the cash being less than the 
charges he incurred. But while I realise  this will come as a disappointment  to Mr S, after 
carefully considering  this matter, I dont think Julius Baer has acted unreasonably. Ill explain 
why.
The terms of the account say the charges applied are:
calculated monthly based on the asset  value at the valuation  point for that 
calendar month. The asset values used in this calculation are the asset values, 
excluding negative positions, for your securities  accounts and cash  and money 
market positions  as shown in the portfolio valuations at each relevant valuation point.
Ref: DRN20250653Im therefore  satisfied the cash Mr S held in his investment portfolio was subject to the 
management fees applicable to his account.
I understand however that Mr S says the cash should never have been included  as part of 
his investment portfolio as it was always earmarked for further property investment. Its 
unclear what discussions  took place between  Mr S and his adviser  at the time the cash was 
credited to the account. But I havent seen anything to show there was an agreement made 
for the cash to treated  separately to the investment portfolio  and therefore not chargeable.
I think its also worth noting that Mr S had the option of holding  the cash elsewhere if he 
didnt want it to be included as part of his investment portfolio.  By doing so he couldve 
avoided the management fees that were  applied to it and, depending  on where it was held, 
still had the funds readily available  for the property investment. But, as Im satisfied the 
management fee was applicable  to the cash,  I dont think I can fairly  conclude Julius Baer  
has acted unfairly or outside the terms of the account by applying it here.
Julius Baer has however  agreed to refund  about  £3,100 of the management fees they 
charged. This consists of the advisory part of the fees charged  on the cash  balance  within  
the portfolio during the first two quarters  of 2017,  along with the custody fee charged  in the 
second quarter  of the year. Given there wasnt any advice to invest  the cash I think  its 
reasonable for Julius Baer to refund the advisory fees. And, as theyve explained, it was in 
April 2017 that their records first show Mr S intention  to use £850,000  of the cash  for a 
property investment in the next few months. So I think its reasonable for them to refund the 
custody fees applicable for the second  quarter as, at this point  at the latest,  they wouldve 
known about Mr S intentions and they couldve informed him that it wouldnt be in his best 
interests for it remain  as part of the investment portfolio. I therefore think  the offer Julius  
Baer has made is fair in the circumstances.
Mr S has also complained about  the charges that were  applied when transferring his 
investment portfolio to another provider. Ive looked  at this but Ive not seen anything to show  
Julius Baer increased these charges, as Ms S alleges, without notice before this happened. 
But rather  it seems that hes benefited  from a reduction they made  to the applicable  transfer 
charges. So, I dont think he suffered a financial loss as a result of whats happened  or that 
Julius Baer incorrectly charged him when he transferred  away.
Mr S is also unhappy with the level of service he received from Julius Baer after his adviser 
left their firm in January  2017. He says they charged  him the full management fee even  
though he didnt receive the quarterly reviews  which,  under the terms of the account, they 
were required  to provide.
The terms of the account say Julius Baer will:
[Provide] quarterly  portfolio reviews  on your account for your Relationship 
Manager. These reviews  summarise the alerts  that result from our 
monitoringas well as deviations from the minimum and maximum asset class 
exposures relevant  to the tactical asset  allocation model.

[Provide] recommendations to you when our quarterly review or alerts  from our 
from our systematic monitoring suggests to us that taking action  would benefit  
your portfolio or when you ask for them.
It also goes on to say that this type of account may be suitable:
Ref: DRN20250654if you want us to advise  you based  on our monitoring of your portfolio against 
minimum and maximum asset class exposures and a limited  set of additional 
parameters. We will make  recommendations on how to change your portfolio only if 
our monitoring  suggests it would benefit your portfolio, or if you ask us to do so.
From the above I think its clear  that the quarterly review is for the use of the relationship  
manager. And that the relationship manager  would  provide Mr S with a recommendation if 
their monitoring  suggests it would be beneficial for his portfolio. So Ive considered whether 
they did this and for the reasons Ill explain, I think they did.
I can see Julius Baer was in regular  contact with Mr S from January 2017 up until he 
transferred his portfolio to another provider  in June 2017. And during  this time the contact 
included - amongst  others  discussions about  Mr S capital gains tax allowance  and ISA 
subscription, the redemption/sale of funds, his investment risk profile,  a portfolio risk 
notification and the transfer of money. Taking  all of this in to account, I think  Julius  Baer 
were actively  monitoring  Mr S investment  portfolio, assisting him with his financial affairs  
and providing  recommendations where they felt appropriate.
I appreciate Mr S may feel the level of service worsened after his adviser left and that he 
doesnt think the advice or recommendations Julius Baer  provided justified the amount  he 
paid in fees. But if he had any concerns about his investment portfolio and wanted further 
advice then, as per the terms of the account,  he couldve requested it. I cant see that this 
happened. 
Im aware Mr S has also argued that had Julius Baer carried  out the quarterly reviews then 
they ought to have  identified that his portfolio wasnt in line with his investment strategy due 
to holding an overweight cash position.  Ive carefully  considered this point in respect  of the 
complaint that has been referred  to our service  that being  the management fees applied to 
Mr S account and the service hes received. Having done so, I can see that in April 2017  
Julius Baer provided a risk notification that provided an overview of the current  asset  and 
currency allocation against Mr S investment strategy. This shows the cash  was within the 
tactical asset allocation  band recommended by Julius  Baer  for Mr S.
Im therefore  satisfied that Julius Baer reviewed Mr S portfolio and found  it to be in line with 
his investment strategy.  I understand  Mr S may disagree with this. But Im not considering 
the suitability,  or lack of, advice he received from Julius Baer as part of this complaint as I 
cant see that it has been raised with them first. So if Mr S is unhappy about how his 
investment portfolio was managed then he will need  to raise a new complaint to Julius  Baer, 
and so giving them the opportunity to look in to the matter, before we can get involved.
From what  Ive seen though Im not persuaded  that Julius Baer failed to carry out the 
quarterly reviews or provide Mr S with the service they were  contractually required to under  
the terms of the account. And so while I know isnt the outcome Mr S is hoping  for, I wont be 
directing Julius  Baer  to do anything further. I think their offer to refund about £3,100 of 
management fees is reasonable in the circumstances.  If this hasnt yet been paid then Mr S 
should contact  Julius Baer directly to arrange this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN20250655Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2025065