K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy The Protection Specialist Limited (PSL)  is charging a fee for payment 
protection insurance (PPI) claims that he has done  the work  on.
background
In November 2017 Mr B signed a letter of authority (LoA) for PSL to act on his behalf to 
make PPI claims. PSL asked several lenders  to check whether Mr B had any PPI policies 
with them.  For several of them a PPI policy couldnt be located. But for one of his lenders, Ill 
call lender L, three PPI policies were found, two loan accounts  and a credit card.
In January 2018, PSL asked Mr B to complete and sign LoAs and a PPI questionnaire for 
each of the loan accounts and credit card PPI policies he had with lender L.
And in March 2018 lender  L upheld Mr Bs PPI claims  for the two loan accounts and told him 
what compensation it would award. In April 2018, PSL sent Mr B an invoice for its fee for 
each of his successful claims.
In May 2018, lender L confirmed it had upheld Mr Bs remaining PPI claim for the credit card 
account and told him what award it would make. In the same month PSL sent an invoice for 
its fee for this successful  claim.
Mr B said he had used the services  of PSL as he didnt  have  the time to handle the claims 
himself. But said that despite  being  told thered  be little he needed  to do, PSL had harassed 
him for information,  so didnt think PSLs fee should be paid as he had done most  of the 
work. He also said hed cancelled his agreement  with PSL and that PSL were  looking to 
charge a fee of 30% when  he had only agreed  to pay 25%.
PSL said itd had to ask Mr B for further information as his lenders hadnt been  able to locate 
some of his accounts.  It also said it hadnt  received any request from Mr B to cancel his 
agreement. And its fee was 25% plus VAT or 30% inclusive  of VAT.
Mr B wasnt  happy with PSLs response  and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said PSL could charge its fee for Mr Bs successful claims. But said PSL 
shouldnt charge any late payment fees as Mr B had been  disputing its success  fees.  Mr B 
said there has been a financial  impact  to him with loss of earnings  in having to deal with his 
claim, but our investigator said this wasnt something we as a service  could  consider.
Mr B didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman  to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
The agreement Mr B had with PSL was on a No win No fee basis. This means PSL 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work  it did. So, any 
work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where  a claim was 
Ref: DRN25073602successful, PSLs fee may be more  or less than the value of the work  they actually did. This 
is the risk taken by all parties  in this type of agreement.
In November 2017, Mr B signed a LoA instructing PSL to act for him in checking whether he 
had any PPI policies.  In signing the LoA Mr B confirmed he had read and accepted PSLs 
terms and conditions. The LoA also said that:
I understand that, in addition  to the present Letter of Authority I will need to provide 
further informationabout the underlying product(s), service(s) and where known, 
specific account number(s)  being  complained about.
And the terms and conditions say:
You agree  that you will provide any information  we request, and return  any 
documents we need you to return as soon  as reasonably possible to allow us to 
provide the services to you
So, Im satisfied PSL had been clear that Mr B might be asked to provide further information 
to help progress  his claim. And that any fee it charged was based on whether the claim was 
successful rather than the amount of work PSL did.
I can see Mr B contacted PSL in April 2018, saying:
. put my frustration into writing last month  by way of a cancellation form I 
downloaded from your website and specifically told you that I wished to end our 
agreement and pursue the claim myself.
PSL said it hadnt received any cancellation notification. But to cancel the agreement its 
terms and conditions say:
you may cancel your instruction within a cooling  off period of 14 calendar days of the 
date you return your signed letter of authority to us
From what  Mr B said,  this would have meant he sent his cancellation form around March  
2018. But as Mr B signed his agreement with PSL in November  2017,  his cancellation would 
have been made outside  of the 14-day  cooling off period.  
 PSLs terms and conditions go on to say:
If a lender makes a reasonable financial award  after we have started providing the 
services to youwe will send an invoice  for our fee.
I dont know the exact  date in March 2018 when  Mr B said he sent his cancellation  
notification to PSL. But lender L wrote to him 27 March 2018  to advise him that his PPI claim 
was successful. And as outlined above Mr B got in touch with PSL in April 2018  to express 
his dissatisfaction  with how his claim had been worked. 
So, while I can understand Mr B is frustrated  about  the fee PSL is charging him, I cant see 
that Mr B cancelled the agreement before being  told of the success of his claims. And Mr Bs 
PPI claims were successful. So, Im satisfied PSL can charge its fee.
Mr B said PSLs  fee should be 25%. I think the confusion here is about  whether the fee is 
inclusive or not of VAT.  Again, I have looked  at the terms and conditions Mr B had agreed to. 
Ref: DRN25073603In the terms and conditions of the agreement PSL set out its fee as being 30% inclusive of 
VAT. It also gave an example of what the monetary  value  of the fee would be, and what 
payment its client would get. So, I dont think PSL has mis-led  Mr B about  the amount of the 
fee it would  charge for a successful claim.
Late payment fees
PSL in its terms and conditions make  clear that if an invoice for its fees isnt paid in full by a 
set date it would charge  late payment  fees and interest on the outstanding  amount. But its 
terms and conditions also say these wont be applied  whilst the fees being charged  are 
being disputed, as is the case here. As Mr B started to dispute  the success fees on receipt of 
the first invoice, I agree with our investigator  that these charges shouldnt  be included.
PSL has agreed that upon payment of its success fee any late payment fee that had been 
added will be removed. 
So, I think its fair and reasonable for PSL to charge Mr B for its success fees. And this fee 
would be no more than 25% plus VAT (30% inclusive of VAT).
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019. 
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2507360