K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that National Westminster Bank  Plc mis-sold them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C bought  the PPI at the same time as arranging their mortgage in 2002. 
NatWest called its PPI policy Mortgage  Repayments Protector.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say they would never  have  taken out PPI and it was never mentioned  at any 
point during the mortgage application process,  so they believe that the policy was added 
without their knowledge or consent.
Mr and Mrs C say they have kept all the paperwork they received from NatWest and none of 
it mentions PPI. They have provided a copy of a mortgage quotation dated 8 July 2002 
which details the various costs of the mortgage,  including the monthly  repayment  figure  of 
£467.91 per month.  They say that this amount must have included the premium for the PPI 
and yet the PPI isnt mentioned anywhere,  even where it should be where the cost of it has 
been lumped  in with the mortgage.
I wouldnt necessarily expect the mortgage quotation to contain information about  PPI. And I 
dont think that the cost of the PPI formed part of the repayment cost detailed  on the form, 
the reasons for which will become clear  below.
Ive seen other paperwork from the sale where the PPI is mentioned. The mortgage 
application form has a separate section for Mortgage Repayments  Protector.  Next to the 
question: Do you want Mortgage Repayments  Protector?  there is a printed  YES.  
An internal  document called a Supplemental Fact Find to the mortgage interview has a tick 
in a yes box next to the statement:  We discussed:  how NatWest mortgage  repayments 
protector cover works and the cost. It also states:  Mortgage Repayment Protector    YES  
£500 of cover (£25.60pcm).
There are also a number  of forms that post-date the mortgage quotation document:
A Declaration & Signatures form which states: We confirm  we have received the 
accompanying booklet Insure You & Your Home. I/We understand the information  in 
it is about Mortgage Repayments  Protector  and NatWest Home Insurance. 
Mr and Mrs C signed this form on 12 July 2002.
Ref: DRN23191712A mortgage offer document dated  18 July 2002. This shows  the monthly repayment 
for the mortgage  as being £467.91  (the same as on the mortgage quotation) but it 
also lists the cost of the PPI separately. The form states: You have selected  a 
monthly benefit of £500 on a joint basis under Mortgage Repayments Protector. The 
monthly premium will be £25.60.
A direct debit form headed MORTGAGE REPAYMENTS PROTECTOR 
INSURANCE Instructions to your Bank  or Building Society to pay by Direct Debit. 
This form was solely to set up the payments for the PPI and the payments were 
going directly to the insurer rather  than to NatWest.  Mr C has provided  his bank 
details and then signed the form on 7 August 2002.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr and Mrs Cs 
recollection of events has faded. I appreciate  the strength of Mr and Mrs Cs feeling that they 
wouldnt knowingly have taken out PPI. But the evidence  indicates that the policy was 
discussed and that Mr and Mrs C were aware of it. From what we know  of NatWests sales 
processes at the time,  the PPI was presented as optional and I have nothing to make me 
think that NatWest lied on the application form when it said the PPI was discussed, as Mr C 
has alleged. Overall I think that Mr and Mrs C had an interest in the policy  and decided  to 
buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember  doing so.
Both NatWest and Mr and Mrs C say that the sale was non-advised, meaning that NatWest 
didnt recommend the policy to the couple.  I dont know whether this is the case  or not, but I 
dont have to make a finding on this point as it doesnt  affect my decision. If NatWest  did 
advise Mr and Mrs C to buy the policy, it needed to ensure  it met their needs. And from what 
I know of Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, the policy  was suitable.
Mr and Mrs C would  both have received sick pay from the jobs,  but the policy would have  
paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than they would have received full pay 
for. The couple say that they had some savings, but having the policy  would have meant that 
they could retain these  or use them to cover  other  household outgoings at what would have  
been a difficult  time.  They  have also lately said that their parents would have helped.  But 
asking someone  else to pay your mortgage for you would presumably be a last resort and 
other people  cant  always  be relied  upon  as their circumstances  can change.
A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and the consequences of defaulting on a 
mortgage can be very serious. Mr and Mrs C were  buying their first home together  and it 
wouldnt be surprising if they had an interest  in protecting their repayments.
Its possible that NatWest  didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs C were not affected by 
any of those things.  As I think  that Mr and Mrs C had an interest  in the policy and decided to 
buy it, I dont think  that further  information  would have caused  them  to change their minds.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs C paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Cs PPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Cs commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
Ref: DRN23191713commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr and Mrs C back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2319171