K820x#14Complaint
Mr P and Mrs P are unhappy TSB Bank Plc changed the address on Mr Ps profile  and sent 
statements to an address that wasnt  theirs.
For ease of reading Ive referred only to Mr P throughout as the complainant.
background
In November 2018, TSB changed the address  on Mr Ps account, and sent his statements to 
the new address.  But his wifes profile wasnt changed so she continued to get her joint 
account statement  sent to her at the correct  address. 
In April 2019, when  Mr P wanted  a new cheque book, he logged  onto his internet banking  
and saw the new address on his account.  As the address wasnt known to him, he contacted 
TSB. Mr P wasnt able to correct the information held on his account over the telephone. So, 
in May 2019,  he went into his branch  with identification to show  the address details updated  
in November 2018 were wrong.  
Mr P said both he and his wife had suffered  extreme worry and upset as they felt their funds 
with TSB were at risk. And theyd had sleepless nights worrying about the account and had 
been checking the account for suspicious  activity.
TSB accepted a mistake had been  made  but gave reassurance about  the security  of the 
account. It accepted  there had been  human  error and offered £250 for the trouble and upset 
this had caused.
Mr P wasnt  happy with TSBs response  as it didnt explain  how the error had been made. 
And he said TSB should pay £1,000  for the worry and upset caused. He referred  his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator gave  Mr P more detail about  the cause of the error.  And said he thought the 
£250 offered by TSB for trouble and upset was fair and reasonable.
Mr P didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman  to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint, Ill explain  why.
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. As our 
investigator said, it isnt our role to punish  a business. In considering Mr Ps complaint Ive 
looked to see whether  TSB has been fair and reasonable in what  it has done.
In November 2018, Mr Ps address was incorrectly changed, I can understand his frustration 
as it was TSBs mistake. But mistakes do happen.  In this case it was human error.  The call 
handler had been dealing  with a call from Mr P and had his sole account details open.  Mr Ps 
call ended  but the call handler in handling  the next call (which  was a change  of address 
request), hadnt  closed Mr Ps account details. So, the change  of address was made to his 
profile and not to the new callers account.
Ref: DRN25756072As it was only Mr Ps profile that was changed,  it meant his statements were sent to the 
wrong address.  But his wifes joint statement continued to be sent to their actual  address.
In December 2018, TSB was told by its customer living at the other address that they were  
getting correspondence for Mr P.TSB  said when mail is returned it usually adds a check  
address indicator to the account to make  its staff (branch and Telephone Banking)  aware  
that there  might be an issue  with the address. 
I cant see that TSB, despite knowing from December 2018 that Mr P didnt live at the 
address, investigated  the cause of the error  or were proactive  in correcting its mistake on 
Mr Ps account. And continued to send Mr Ps statements to an address he didnt live at after 
December 2018.  It wasnt until Mr P noticed the error, several months later,  was corrective  
action taken.
I think TSB could have done  more to have corrected  the situation sooner. And I dont think 
after December 2018 any information about Mr P should have been sent to the, now known, 
incorrect address. So, Ive looked at how TSB should put things right.
Neither Mr P or his wife have suffered any direct  financial loss because of TSBs  error. But I 
can see that both he and his wife have  suffered trouble and upset because of what 
happened. Mr P had to go into his branch to get his details corrected. And it shouldnt be 
undermined that both he and his wife had the worry of someone possibly having access  to 
their account. But Mr P only became aware of the error at the end of April 2019 and he got 
his account corrected by 7 May 2019.  
TSB accepts it made an error and has offered Mr P £250 for the trouble and upset this has 
caused. I know Mr P will be upset by my decision, but as I said above it isnt our role to 
punish a business. And Im satisfied that TSBs offer of £250 is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2020. 
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2575607