K821x#15complaint
Miss G has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc wrongly held her named  driver at fault 
for a claim made by another driver under  her motor policy.
background
Another driver claimed that Miss Gs named  driver  caused damage to their car in October  
2015 so this other driver  made a claim to Pinnacle.  Miss G didnt believe any damage had 
occurred to her car or this other car. However, she allowed  Pinnacles  engineer  to examine 
her car. Following this Pinnacle refused to pay the other drivers  claim. 
However, in September 2017, the other driver  issued legal proceedings, Pinnacle looked  at 
the case again and decided this time it wouldnt be able to defend the other  drivers claim 
and paid it. 
Miss Gs policy has an all sections excess, which means Miss G pays  the first £3,000 of any 
claim, so it asked Miss G to pay this. Miss G didnt  think  this was fair and brought her 
complaint to us.
The investigator thought Pinnacle  was unfair so she thought Miss Gs complaint should be 
upheld. Pinnacle  didnt agree so Miss Gs complaint has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why. 
As the investigator  explained, we dont  decide  who is at fault for causing  an accident or 
damage, as thats a matter for the courts. Miss Gs policy in line with virtually  every other 
motor policy  permits Pinnacle to comes  to its own decision on liability too.
However we do look to make sure the decision on liability was fairly  reached and in line with 
the policy terms. Here, I dont think its reasonable for Pinnacle to have decided in October 
2015 to not pay the other drivers claim and then change  its mind two years  later simply 
because the other driver issued legal proceedings. 
Initially Pinnacles engineers report was enough for Pinnacle to refuse to pay the other 
drivers claim. This is because he couldnt  say for definite the marks on Miss Gs car were 
consistent with the others drivers claim.  It now transpires the report  showing the other 
drivers damage isnt consistent with Pinnacles  report on Miss Gs car in any event.  
Therefore, I dont consider it reasonable solely in the face of legal proceedings being issued 
for Pinnacles view to have changed.
Pinnacle said there was a call recording from Miss Gs named driver admitting  liability  but it 
hasnt been able to produce  a copy of that call recording. However, Pinnacles system notes 
dont support that, as on 12 October 2015 Pinnacle  noted the named driver denied  being 
involved in the accident but admitted being  involved in a previous accident.  And then on 29 
January 2016  theres an entry by Pinnacle  in its system notes saying that this accident 
needed to be recorded as non-fault  on Miss Gs insurance record. 
Ref: DRN25284622Pinnacle did obtain legal advice but that legal  advice is based on the erroneous fact the 
named driver admitted  liability and therefore in my view such  legal advice doesnt carry 
much weight.
The other driver did produce a witness who alleged noted Miss Gs car being  inadvertently 
reversed into the other  drivers car. That witness said the driver  of Miss Gs car left some  
details on the other  drivers car but detailed the registration number incorrectly.  However  
bearing in mind all of the above, I consider that casts  further  doubt  on whether this witness 
account would stand up in a court hearing.
So taking all of this into account, I consider on the balance of probability that Pinnacle hasnt 
been reasonable in settling the other  drivers claim here, ensuring that Miss G must pay her 
all sections excess or part of it.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. Therefore, Pinnacle 
should no longer demand any payment of the excess  or part of it from Miss G.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2528462