K820x#14complaint
Mrs J says National Westminster Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs J bought the policy in 2004. This was a standalone policy taken out to protect  Mrs Js 
existing mortgage.  She applied  for the PPI policy in branch. Then  in 2005, when the 
mortgage was moved  to NatWest, Mrs J amended  her PPI to cover  this borrowing. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs J for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £650.00  a month towards  Mrs Js mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £33.28  a month.  
NatWest has provided evidence that Mrs J was employed as a junior sales  representative at 
the time,  and Mrs J confirmed this in a recent call with NatWest. Mrs J has confirmed that 
she was in good health at the time of sale. 
Mrs Js representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Js representative says:
NatWest failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs J wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Js 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NatWest should  have 
told Mrs J about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NatWest should  have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs J and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mrs J received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN21582252Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Js. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Js complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mrs Js mortgage with NatWest was arranged after mortgage lending  became regulated  in 
October 2004  as such this was an FCA regulated mortgage. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
NatWest, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN21582253Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NatWest at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mrs Js case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
NatWest was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Js complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If NatWest  gave  advice, whether it advised  Mrs J with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether NatWest gave Mrs J sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs J, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs J suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs J and 
NatWest, Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Js complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs J know she had a choice?
Ref: DRN21582254NatWest had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mrs J took this policy out when she already had a running mortgage with another provider. 
So it seems  likely that she knew she didnt  have to have this PPI at all. Unfortunately  due to 
the length of time thats passed Mrs Js PPI application form is no longer available. But 
NatWest have said that she wouldve had to complete  and sign a PPI application  form. And 
again, as there was no mortgage being taken  out with NatWest at that time I think  she 
wouldve known this was a separate and optional product. Mrs J had the policy for several 
years, and chose  to amend this policy when she did take out a mortgage  with NatWest.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs J knew  the policy was optional  
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did NatWest provide  advice?
Both NatWest and Mrs J agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  NatWest didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs J. Instead,  it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs J was given  a broad description of what  the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was unable  
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the approximate costs. Ive 
reached this conclusion because as this was a standalone policy at first, I think  its unlikely 
Mrs J would have taken  out the policy without  any sense  of what  the policy was for and of 
how much  the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NatWest gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs J agreed  to take out the policy. 
So, I dont think NatWest  gave Mrs J sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Js representative has raised a number 
of general points with regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Js. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
Ref: DRN21582255-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Js representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs J about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Js representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs J has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that NatWest ought to have done  either. 
what effect did NatWests  shortcomings have on Mrs J? To what extent  did Mrs J 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that NatWest  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mrs J. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mrs J would have 
still taken out the policy,  had NatWest  done  things properly. 
Mrs J says she would not have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs J had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs J chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs J thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs J has suffered any loss or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs J knew she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear NatWest told her the exact premium at the point she applied  
for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mrs J would  have  been  told the cost before 
the policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs  were  
significantly at odds  with her expectations at the point of sale,  its possible she might  have  
raised that with NatWest  at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mrs J would  have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  NatWest  made  clear  exactly what  Mrs J would get back  in 
return in the event Mrs J made  a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mrs Js 
Ref: DRN21582256expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet her mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs J thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions:
oWhich occurred within the first 12 months  of the policy as a result of any 
medical conditions  for which treatment  had been given or diagnosis had been  
made or investigations  commenced during the 12 months immediately before 
the start date of the policy,
oResulting from any chronic  or continuing sickness, disease or injury  from 
which Mrs J knowingly  suffered  on the start date;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs J 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs J pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs J from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs Js circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. Mrs J was eligible for its benefits and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mrs J initially  said she suffered from a medical 
condition prior to the sale of the PPI, she recently confirmed with NatWest that she was in 
good health at the time of the sale. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest  Mrs J 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions so, I still think she had some good  
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs J would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
NatWest may not have  told Mrs J that any claim she made would be limited to a 12-month. 
This may have differed  from what she expected and might have hoped for  but 12 months 
was likely to be a longer  period than Mrs J would have received any full sick pay for and her 
statutory redundancy entitlement wouldve also been significantly less than 12 months 
income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs J would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Mrs J be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk.
Ref: DRN21582257Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs J would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to what 
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if Mrs J was made redundant, or unable  to work through  accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mrs J would  have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Js representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs J would  not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Js 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs J 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs J believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs J in the position  she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude NatWest should  pay Mrs J compensation, as that would put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs J thinks NatWest misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
NatWests statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NatWest  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information NatWest gave Mrs J, in the way 
Ref: DRN21582258it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2004 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Js representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find NatWest negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs J and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that NatWest had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs J in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2021.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2158225