K820x#14complaint
Ms O complains that her partner was incorrectly added to her current  account as a joint 
account holder.  
background
In July 2018 Ms O visited a Lloyds branch with her partner. Ms Os partner planned to add 
her to his account  as a joint account holder but the branch  didnt process the request 
correctly. As a result, Ms Os partner  was added to her account instead. 
Ms O noticed a few days later and complained. She said that her partner had been sent a 
card to use on her account  and had been  able to access private and personal information, 
including the amount  of money  she had. 
Lloyds looked  at Ms Os complaint and initially offered £200 but went on to pay a total of 
£700 because  of what happened. Ms O didnt feel the offer was fair so referred her 
complaint to this service.  
An adjudicator looked at the complaint and said they thought  the settlement of £700 Lloyds 
had paid was fair in the circumstances but Ms O didnt agree. As a result, the complaints 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms O is so upset about what happened. Lloyds shouldnt have added  
her partner to her account and I appreciate the issues caused problems between them. 
Ms Os also told us about the health  problems she has that make visiting  a branch difficult 
and painful. In this case,  Lloyds has accepted that it made a mistake  when Ms Os partner 
was incorrectly added  to her account  and theyve since  been removed. I now need to decide 
whether Lloyds has done enough to resolve  Ms Os complaint.  
I can see how distressed Ms O is because of whats happened. And I can see that having to 
revisit a branch  is harder for her because of the health problems she has told us about. I 
also accept that as a result of Lloyds mistake Ms Os information was shared with her 
partner when it shouldnt  have been.  But Lloyds has paid a total of £700 following Ms Os 
complaint. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Ms O has told us about the impact of Lloyds error on her 
health as well as her relationship. I understand her strength  of feeling but, having done so, I 
think the £700 Lloyds has paid fairly reflects the impact of its error on Ms O. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms O but as Im satisfied Lloyds has paid fair compensation Im not 
telling it to increase  its offer of take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
Ref: DRN21816752my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £700  Lloyds Bank  PLC has 
already paid Ms O. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Ms O to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2181675