K821x#15complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about the refusal  of a claim made under his mobile phone  insurance
policy with Assurant General Insurance Limited, provided with Mr Ss bank account.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter earlier this month,  the main part of which is 
copied below:  
Mr S made  a claim under the policy with Assurant in November 2018. Mr S explained  that
the phone  had been purchased and paid for by his wife but it had been gifted to him to use
and it was owned by him. He had apparently had two previous claims met by Assurant that
were also for phones purchased for him by his wife.
Assurant refused to meet the claim,  as it says the policy requires him to be the owner and
while it might  have  previously accepted handwritten  confirmation of transfer of ownership
(such as were provided in relation to Mr Ss previous claims) it will no longer do so.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and recommended that it be upheld.  She
didnt think it was fair to have changed its practice  without  telling  Mr S, as he could have no
way of knowing this and therefore  could  not arrange alternative cover. The investigator
recommended therefore that Assurant meet the claim.
Assurant doesnt  accept the investigators assessment, so the matter  has been passed  to 
me. It says:
It cant accept a hand written transfer of ownership because it cant validate its
content and thus cant  confirm whether the policy holder is in fact the owner  of the
mobile phone and the device is eligible for cover.
As the contract is in Mrs S's name, she is financially responsible for the device and
the Network would pursue Mrs S and not Mr S for payment, which  again supports
that she is the owner of the device  and Mr S is simply  the user.
The document provided in support of the previous claim was written  by Mr S and not
his wife. In addition the document  does not detail  that he is the owner of the mobile
phone, more so he states  that he is the 'sole user' of the device and his wife granted
him 'full access' to the mobile  phone, which implies that she remained the owner of
the mobile phone.
Assurant therefore  maintains  that Mr S has not been  able to provide sufficient  evidence  to
support that he is the owner of the phone.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy Mr S holds  says the following:
We need  to know that the mobile phone,  SIM card and accessories you are claiming for is
yours. Therefore  you may need  to provide some form of proof  of ownership
Ref: DRN20822672You will need to be able to tell us the make  and model of your mobile phone.  We may ask to
see something that tells us that the items  you are claiming for belong to you and confirms
the make, model, memory size and IMEI number of your mobile phone.
The IMEI number is the unique serial number for your mobile phone. You can find it by
inputting *#06#  into your mobile phone.  It should also be noted on the documentation that
came with your mobile phone when you purchased it. Your  airtime provider may also be able
to provide it to you.
Proof of ownership  could  include  a till receipt  or documentation from your airtime provider.
If you dont have any proof of ownership we may decline  your claim.
This is not unreasonable in itself,  as insurance policies such as this will only cover  items
that belong to the policyholder. The policy condition also reflects the legal position that a
policyholder has to have an insurable interest in the insured property (which would normally
mean he/she has to own the item).
As Mr S has said gifts are made  all the time, especially between couples and families. Mr Ss
wife apparently purchased the phone  and her name is on the airtime contract. However, she
is entitled to transfer  ownership to another party if she so wishes,  either by way of a gift or by
selling it. The fact Mr Ss wifes  name is still on the airtime contract means  she is liable for
the cost of that but doesnt mean  the phone itself cant be transferred. Mr Ss evidence  is
that this phone (like previous phones) was transferred to his ownership by way of a gift.
Mr S provided evidence of transfer  of the phone to him from his wife in relation to a previous
claim, in the form of statements  from him and his wife. Assurant  says these refer to him
being the sole user and having been  given  full access to the phone rather  than that he
owns it. It seems  clear  to me that the references  to having been given full access  referred
to Mrs S having given  the network provider  authority  to speak to Mr S about the phone  and
the contract. It does say he was the sole user and that the phone was purchased for his sole
use. I am satisfied that they both intended this to mean it was to be Mr Ss phone. Assurant
accepted that evidence  in relation  to that previous claim  in 2017.
However, Assurant says that it has made  an internal policy decision that it would no longer
accept such evidence of transfers of ownership.  I do not consider that it is fair for it to apply
that policy decision in the circumstances of this case.
Mr Ss evidence  is that the phone was purchased for him as a gift. There is also other
evidence that corroborates that, such as the fact the number used with the phone is the one
registered with the bank  that the insurance is provided with. And theres no evidence  to
suggest Mr S had use of more than one phone and therefore any difference in risk for
Assurant.
I am satisfied that to all intents and purposes, the phone  belonged to Mr S. I therefore
consider Assurant should proceed to consider the claim  in line with the remaining policy
terms.
Assurant has also said the phone was never registered under the policy. It is not a
requirement that it be pre-registered but it says there was never therefore an expectation
that it would  be covered.  I dont consider that this makes a difference.
Given that the claim was made some time ago, I assume Mr S has already  made
Ref: DRN20822673arrangements for a replacement, in which case a cash settlement would be appropriate. I
would ask both parties  to provide me with evidence about this in response  to this decision.
I also consider that Assurant should  pay the sum of £50 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused by unreasonably refusing this claim.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Assurant General Insurance Limited and require it to
do the following:
process Mr Ss claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the
policy, providing a cash settlement  in lieu of a replacement if appropriate; and
pay him £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
responses to my provisional  decision  
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
evidence they wish me to consider. 
Assurant has confirmed  it has nothing  further to add and Mr S has confirmed he accepts the 
provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has disputed my provisional findings and no further information has bene 
provided, I see no reason  to change my provisional decision. I therefore  remain  of the 
opinion that the claim  should be met and compensation  paid to Mr S. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Assurant General Insurance Limited  and require it to
do the following:
process Mr Ss claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the
policy, providing a cash settlement  in lieu of a replacement if appropriate; and
pay him £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2082267