K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to him. 
background
This complaint is about five instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr H between  January 2016 
and May 2016.  All the loans were repayable by six monthly instalments. Loans  1 and 2 have 
been repaid. Loans 3 to 5 werent repaid and were  sold to a third party (T) in October  2016. 
Mr Hs lending history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
1. 17/1/16 31/3/16 £150 
2. 28/1/16 31/3/16 £100
3. 14/3/16 Unpaid £200
4. 14/4/16 Unpaid £200
5. 15/5/16 Unpaid £100
The adjudicator recommended that Loan 5 should  be upheld. He said that by Loan  5 
proportionate checks would most  likely have shown  that Mr H was having  problems 
managing his money. He noted  that Mr H had two other loans with Sunny and he said that 
Sunny would also have become aware that Mr H was also borrowing from other short term 
lenders. 
Sunny disagreed. It said that consumers were  allowed to take out up to four separate  loans 
with it at any one time.  It also said that the adjudicator  hadnt  said what amounted  to a 
proportionate check. Sunny said that if it should  have checked  for other short term loans, it 
had done so when it asked Mr H about his expenses.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When Sunny  lent to Mr H the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr H could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
Ref: DRN24277862the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Sunny did a number  of checks  before  it lent to Mr H. It asked him for details  of his monthly 
income and expenditure. Mr Hs declared  income for Loans  1 and 2 was £1,500.  This 
increased to £1,842 for Loans  3 to 5.  Mr Hs declared expenditure ranged from £950 to 
£1,075 for the loans.
Sunny also checked  Mr Hs credit file before  agreeing to the loans. It has provided  us with a 
summary of the results of its credit checks. It appears from the summaries Ive seen that 
there wasnt any adverse  information such as bankruptcy,  IVAs  or debt management plans 
that I think should have caused  additional  concerns to Sunny. Ive referred below to some  of 
the other information  revealed in Sunnys credit  checks.
We havent received  a credit report from Mr H so Im not aware of anything  on that which  
might have caused Sunny additional  concerns. 
Loan 1 was for £150 repayable by six monthly repayments with a highest repayment  of 
£44.26. Sunnys credit check showed that Mr H had one active payday  loan balance and that 
it had been two months since  his last payday  loan was opened. Overall Ive not seen 
anything in the results  of those credit checks that I think should have caused  Sunny 
additional concerns about Mr Hs financial situation.
 
I can see that Mr H declared an income of £1,500  and expenditure of £1,075. I dont think 
the repayment amounts were so large  that its obvious they wouldve caused  Mr H financial 
difficulty. And I dont  think at that stage of its relationship with Mr H that Sunny  had any 
Ref: DRN24277863reason to doubt the information  hed provided. I dont think  it was unreasonable  for Sunny to 
rely on Mr Hs declared disposable  income of £425.
 
Given Mr Hs repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances  at the time, 
and that this was his first loan with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for 
Sunny to ask him for the amount of information  that would be needed to show  Loan  1 was 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr H provided before Loan 1 or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what he was saying. So I dont think Sunny was wrong to give Loan 1 to Mr H. 
Loan 1 was still outstanding when Mr H took out Loan 2. Sunnys credit check showed that 
Mr H had a balance of £336 outstanding on his payday loans and that hed opened  one 
payday loan in the last month. The highest monthly repayment on Loan 2 was £33.34.  This 
meant that Mr H would be repaying  total monthly loan repayments of around £78. I can see 
that Mr H declared an income of £1,500  and expenditure  of £950 (including  credit 
commitments of £150). Even if Sunny took into account the £336 outstanding payday loans 
balance, I dont think the total repayment  amounts were so large that its obvious they 
wouldve caused Mr H financial difficulty.  And again  I dont think  at that stage of its 
relationship with Mr H that Sunny had any reason to doubt the information  hed provided.  I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for Sunny to rely on Mr Hs declared disposable income of 
£550.
 
So given Mr Hs repayment  amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances  at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I dont think it wouldve  been  proportionate for Sunny to 
ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to show  Loan 2 was 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr H provided before Loan 2 or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what he was saying. So I dont think Sunny was wrong to give Loan 2 to Mr H. 
Loans 1 and 2 were  still outstanding when Mr H took out Loan  3. There was very little 
information shown  on Sunnys credit  check before this loan. The highest  monthly  repayment  
on Loan 3 was £60.80.  This meant that Mr H would be repaying total monthly  loan 
repayments of around £139 for several months.  I can see that Mr H had declared an 
increased income of £1,842 and his expenditure was £1,025.  Again I dont think the total 
repayment amounts  were  so large that its obvious they wouldve  caused Mr H financial 
difficulty. And again I dont think that Sunny had any reason  to doubt the information Mr H 
had provided. I also note that Mr H had been making his loan repayments on Loans 1 and 2 
promptly and he was paying larger amounts than his contractual  repayments.
Given Mr Hs repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances  at the time, 
and his history with the lender, I dont  think it wouldve been proportionate  for Sunny to ask 
him for the amount of information that would be needed to show  Loan 3 was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr H provided before Loan 3 or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what he was saying. So I dont think Sunny was wrong to give Loan 3 to Mr H.
Ref: DRN24277864Loans 1 and 2 had been repaid two weeks earlier when Mr H took out Loan 4. Loan 3 was 
still outstanding  although Mr H had repaid the first of his six repayments on that loan 
promptly and hed paid a higher amount than his contractual  repayment.  There was very little 
information shown  on Sunnys credit  check before this loan.  The  loan amount was again 
£200 with six monthly  repayments of around £60.47.  This meant that Mr H would be 
repaying total monthly loan repayments of around  £122 for several months.  Mr H had 
declared an income of £1,842 and expenditure of £1,000. I can see that this included  credit 
commitments of £150. I still dont think the repayments on Loan 4 were  so large that its 
obvious they wouldve caused  Mr H financial difficulty.
And given  Mr Hs repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I dont think it wouldve  been  proportionate for Sunny to 
ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to show  Loan 4 was 
unsustainable. So I dont  think Sunny  was wrong  to give Loan  4 to Mr H.
Mr H took out Loan 5 whilst he was still repaying Loans 3 and 4. This meant that hed be 
repaying total monthly loan repayments of around  £152 for several months.  Loan  5 was 
Mr Hs fifth loan in around four months.  I think by the time of Loan 5 that Sunny should  have  
been concerned  that Mr H might have been  reliant  on its lending. And I dont think it was 
reasonable for Sunny to base its assessment before Loan 5 on the information  provided by 
Mr H without taking steps to independently check what hed declared. So I think it might  
have been proportionate  at this time for Sunny to have independently  reviewed the true state  
of Mr Hs finances. This was to make sure Mr H was in position to make the repayments 
sustainably. As far as I can see Sunny didnt do this. So I need to think  about what  Sunny 
wouldve seen if it had carried  out proportionate checks. 
I would normally look at the borrowers bank  statements to see what  proportionate checks 
would likely  have shown.  I cant see that we have received these. But I can see from other 
complaints with this service that Mr H had two outstanding short  term loans with other  
lenders as well as Loans 3 and 4. So he was already  committed  to repaying  those lenders 
around the same time as hed be repaying  Loans 3, 4 and 5. I think that the extent of Mr Hs 
other short term borrowing should  have put Sunny  on notice that he was having  serious  
problems managing his money.  So I dont think that Sunny should  have  given Loan  5 to 
Mr H.
So, I think that Sunny needs to pay Mr H some compensation relating to Loan  5. So Sunny 
should put things right as follows.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
-refund  all the interest and charges that Mr H has paid on Loan 5, and pay 8%
       simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of
       settlement. As the balance on Loan  5 has been  transferred to a third party  (T),
       Sunny should also refund any unpaid interest  and charges that are included in the
       outstanding balance  on Loan  5 (since  T will expect to collect this money from Mr H);
-as Loan 5 has been transferred to T, pay the above  refunds to Mr H in full and no
       deductions should be made  by Sunny. But, if Sunny  buys back  Loan 5 from T within
       21 days of Mr Hs acceptance of my decision,  it might apply the refunds referred to
       above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 5, and pay any balance  to Mr H;
    
Ref: DRN24277865-remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Hs credit file with regard to Loan 5 if 
Sunny buys it back).  If Loan  5 has to remain with T, then Sunny is to assist Mr H, so far 
as it is able, to correct his credit file record.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If Sunny intends
to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must  do so after deducting
the tax.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Elevate  Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, to:
1. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr H has paid on Loan  5, and pay 8%
    simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement. As the balance on Loan  5 has been  transferred to a third party  (T),
    Sunny should also refund any unpaid interest and charges that are included in the
    outstanding balance  on Loan  5 (since T will expect to collect  this money from Mr H);
2. As Loan 5 has been transferred to T, pay the above refunds to Mr H in full and no
    deductions should be made by Sunny. But, if Sunny buys  back Loan 5 from T within
    21 days of Mr Hs acceptance of my decision,  it might apply the refunds referred to
    above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 5, and pay any balance to Mr H;
    and
3. Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Hs credit  file with regard to
    Loan 5 if Sunny buys it back. If Loan  5 has to remain with T, then Sunny is to assist 
    Mr H, so far as it is able, to correct his credit file record.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If Sunny intends
to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must  do so after deducting
the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2427786