K821x#15complaint
Ms R complains that Elevate Credit International Limited  trading  as Sunny was irresponsible  
when it provided  a number of loans to her between  2014 and 2016.
background
Ive prepared the table below to show some of the information Sunny has provided  about 
Ms Rs loans.
loan  
numberdate takenprincipal 
amountrepaid
Loan  1 20/07/14 credit limit £150 28/11/14
Loan  2 05/03/15 £150 29/04/15
Loan  3 02/05/15 £150 30/10/15
Loan  4 13/08/15 £50 28/08/15
Loan  5 12/11/15 £150 26/04/16
Loan  6 24/06/16 £100 29/07/16
Loan  7 06/08/16 £150 31/08/16
Loan  8 31/08/16 £150 29/12/16
Loan 1 was an open-ended credit facility  which  means Ms R could draw down amounts of 
capital up to her credit  limit - £150.  Loans  2 to 8 were high-cost short-term instalment  loans.  
Each was due to be repaid over a period of six months.
Sunny accepts that it shouldnt have provided the open-ended credit  facility to Ms R. Our 
adjudicator thought that Sunny ought  not have provided any of the loans to Ms R and 
recommended that it put things right for her. Sunny didnt agree but did make  an offer to 
refund the interest she paid on Loan  8 (in addition to Loan 1). Ms R didnt accept the offer.
As Ms Rs complaint hasnt been resolved  informally, it has come  to me - an ombudsman - 
for a final decision.  If she accepts my decision it will be binding on the parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny provided  the loans in question  while  it was authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA).
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with. These  included  PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: A firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Ref: DRN20224512The Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC)  set out the rules  and guidance which  apply to 
credit providers like Sunny when providing  loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in 
relation to responsible lending.  
Section 5.2.1R of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
borrower a loan saying:
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must undertake
an assessment of the creditworthiness of the customer.
And at Section  5.2.1(2) a lender had to consider:
(a) the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  is to 
be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of 
the regulated  credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable  period.
CONC also included guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) 
saying:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  
on, for example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought  and the potential  risks to 
the customer. The risk of credit not being  sustainable directly  relates  to the amount  of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit  relative  to the customers  financial 
situation.
CONC 5.3 contained further  guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking 
about affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) saying:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account  more than assessing the customers ability 
to repay  the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then added:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps  to assess the customers  ability to 
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner 
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse  
consequences.
CONC 5.3.1G(6) clarified  what is meant  by sustainable:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated 
credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue  difficulties, in particular:
Ref: DRN20224513(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within  a reasonable period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and 
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
CONC 5.3.1G (4) added that if a firm does take account of income and expenditure in its 
credit worthiness assessment:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
(c) its assessment should be based  on what  the firm knows at the time of the 
assessment
As an ombudsman Im also required to take into account any other guidance,  standards,  
relevant codes of practice, and, where  appropriate,  what I consider to have been  good  
industry practice.
Taking all of this into account,  I think there are some  overarching  questions I need to 
consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Rs 
complaint - Did Sunny  complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that 
Ms R would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way?   If so, did it make  a fair lending  
decision? If not, would  those checks have shown  that Ms R wouldve been able to do so?
Ive outlined above some  of the regulations in place at the time Sunny provided the loans  to 
Ms R. In summary,  it had to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of 
whether she could afford to repay them  in a sustainable way. 
The checks  Sunny did had to be proportionate  to the specific  circumstances of each loan.  
And what is proportionate will depend on a number  of factors including things like the 
consumers financial history and current situation as well as things such  as the amount, type 
and cost of the credit  being sought.
It is important  to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent  and scope and the types  and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough  to be able to reasonably  assess  the sustainability  
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other  words, the assessment needs  to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender  of not getting back its money  but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequence  as a result of the 
decision to lend.
Ref: DRN20224514As set out in CONC,  the risk to the borrower directly relates to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would  likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
borrower might not be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
situation might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment  of creditworthiness  to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the borrower of not being  able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the borrower.  These factors include, 
but are not limited  to:
the lower a borrowers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a borrower has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So Sunny was required to establish  whether  Ms R could sustainably  repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because  as I've set out above  CONC defines  sustainable  as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. 
It follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
So, although  Ms R may have repaid  some  of her loans early,  it doesnt automatically follow 
that she managed  to do so in a sustainable  way. And the regulations are quite clear  that 
Sunny needed  to assess the whether the credit  it agreed was affordable in a sustainable  
manner. 
Ive mentioned that Sunny accepts  that it shouldnt have provided Loan 1  the open-ended 
credit facility.  So, Ive carefully  considered what a reasonable and proportionate check 
shouldve looked  like when  Sunny  was in the process of approving Ms Rs later loans. Ms R 
took Loan 2 around three months after she repaid the open-ended credit  facility. She had 
drawn down the maximum  amount she could (£150)  on that facility on four occasions  
between July and November 2014. So Loan  2 was Ms Rs fifth application  for credit.  And 
Ref: DRN20224515from this point all her loans were due to be repaid  through  six monthly instalments. The 
highest repayment on Loan  2 was due to be around £48.
At the point of approving  Loan 1 for Ms R, Sunny had only asked her about her monthly  
income. But I note that from March  2015  it did ask her for details of her expenditure (as well 
as some credit checks). This way it would have an idea about  her declared disposable 
income  the money from which shed be making her repayments.  But I think its important to 
remember that lenders  like Sunny didnt simply have to do checks, they also had to react 
appropriately in response to the information they obtained through those checks.
When Ms R was asked by Sunny about  her income  and outgoings she told it that her 
monthly income was £1,750. But she also declared that her housing  was costing her £550,  
her other credit cost £203 and her essential  spending (things like utility bills, food, transport)  
cost £925. This meant that once Ms R had met those outgoings she would have £72 per 
month from which to pay for everything  else: and of course £48 of that was due to be repaid 
to Sunny.  Im not persuaded that this was enough for her to be able to get by without 
borrowing again. In other words,  this loan wasnt affordable for her in a sustainable way and 
so on the information Sunny had, it wasnt responsible to provide it to Ms R.
Ms R repaid  Loan  2 after only two months  but three days  later took Loan 3. And whilst that 
was still live she took Loan 4  and so now had two loans to repay  a total of around £65 
per month. This smaller  loan was repaid within  a couple of weeks.  But Loan  3 remained live 
until the end of October and within two weeks Ms R took Loan 5. Sunny continued to ask her 
about her income  and outgoings and it also did some credit  checks.  But given the pattern  
that had developed, it shouldve been  doing  much to verify  the information  it had  especially 
as there  was such a variation of figures  being provided. For example during the period of 
borrowing Ms Rs housing  costs  varied  between £750 and £250  and the overall trend was 
reducing. The amount  of credit Ms R declared  also varied so at the point she took Loans  4 
and 8 it was in excess of £600 per month. 
Im satisfied that Sunny failed to do proportionate  checks and if it had done what I consider  
proportionate it wouldve  most likely seen that she was struggling to manage her money. 
And, from the point  it provided Loan 2 (given the number  of loans she was borrowing and the 
frequency), it was most likely she was borrowing to repay earlier credit.  So, these  loans were  
not affordable  for Ms R in a sustainable way. 
I also think that Sunny shouldve realised that Ms Rs overall  pattern lending  was 
unsustainable from the point she took Loan  6. This was her ninth advance of capital in 
around 23 months of borrowing, during which time she had not been indebted to Sunny for 
only about five months.  This pattern of taking new loans shortly after taking out or repaying  
the previous ones and sometimes even overlapping with one another  suggested  that Ms R 
was persistently reliant on these high-cost short-term loans. These products were expensive 
and were intended as a short-term solution  to temporary cash-flow problems. Sunny ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not that Ms R was having to borrow further to cover  the 
holes repaying  her previous loans were leaving in her finances and that her indebtedness 
was increasing unsustainably. She wasnt making  any real inroads to the amount she owed 
Sunny.
Ref: DRN20224516And I think that Ms R lost out because  Sunny  continued to provide  her with these loans from 
Loan 6 onwards because  they had the effect of unfairly prolonging her indebtedness by 
allowing her to take expensive credit  intended for short-term  use. The sheer number  of loans 
was likely to have had negative implications on Ms Rs ability to access  mainstream  (and 
cheaper) credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost  loans.
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  all the loans  Sunny provided to Ms R and it should put 
things right as set out below.
putting things right
Sunny shouldnt have given Ms R any of the loans and should  put things right as set out 
below:
a)Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms R towards interest,  fees and 
charges on all the loans it provided  to her.
b)Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Ms R which were 
considered as part of a), calculated from the date she originally  made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
c)Pay Ms R the total of a) plus b).
d)Remove any adverse  information Sunny has recorded on Ms Rs credit file in relation 
to Loans 1 to 5. The overall pattern of Ms Rs borrowing for Loans  6 to 8 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so Sunny should remove these loans  
entirely from Ms Rs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny  to deduct tax from this interest.  It should give Ms R a certificate  
showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
 my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I uphold Ms Rs complaint about Elevate Credit International 
Limited and require it to put things right in the way Ive explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2022451