K821x#15Complaint
Mr M has complained that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company  Limited  has unfairly made  
changes to his pet insurance policy as well as unfairly increasing its cost.  
Background
Mr M took out a Liverpool Victoria lifetime pet insurance policy online in 2010.  
At renewal in 2018 Liverpool Victoria stopped offering Mr Ms existing  policy and so 
transferred his cover to their new Lifetime  policy. At the same time his premium increased  
from £1,166.64  to £1,691.64 per year. 
Mr M complained as he didnt think the changes made to his cover were  fair, especially the 
increase in excesses.  He was also surprised by the significant increase in cost.
Mr Ms dog has now sadly  passed away, so he no longer has the policy.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining  that businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for
the insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power to tell a business  what  its
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how it should
operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mr Ms policy  was too high or he
should have been charged  less for the policy.
While Mr Ms premium saw a significant increase, I havent seen any evidence to suggest  
Liverpool Victoria has treated him differently to how it would have treated any other
policyholder in the same position.  So I cant say Liverpool Victoria  has singled him out and 
treated him unfairly compared to its other  customers. 
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr M took out, will continue  to cover any
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
Liverpool Victoria should have made these longer-term cost implications clear to him before 
he took the policy and again  when they transferred his cover to the new policy. Particularly 
as his cover  was marketed as lifetime insurance.  He needed  this information to properly 
understand what it was he was buying and renewing and so he could make an informed 
choice.
Ref: DRN29316862But I dont think the information Liverpool Victoria gave  Mr M about the policy in 2010 or in 
2018 made this clear  to him.
Mr M took the policy out online  in 2010 and the screen shots are no longer available so I 
dont know what information Mr M would have seen. Liverpool  Victoria have given me the 
earliest terms and conditions it has and says it would have been the same or similar to what  
Mr M would have received. I cant see it has any reference to premium increases. So I think 
its unlikely he would  have  been  given much, if any information about the long-term  costs  of 
the policy when  he took it out.
At each  renewal Mr M has been sent information about the policy.  And from what Ive seen, 
he wasnt clearly told about the potential long-term costs at any point.
I can see from a copy  of the terms and conditions for when Mr Ms policy  transferred in 2018 
that they do say that the cost of the policy could  change quite significantly. But I cant see 
that this term has been sufficiently  highlighted  in either his pre-renewal information,  renewal 
letter or in the Key Facts  document. Mr M wouldve had to read through several pages of 
closely worded text to see it. And by that point his dog was old and had an ongoing 
condition, so it would have been difficult for him to get alternative cover anyway.
I appreciate what Liverpool  Victoria have said - that a premium  is never  guaranteed.  And I 
know it wouldnt have been  possible  for them to tell Mr M exactly how much his premium  
would increase to. But, Liverpool Victoria, as the insurer, would have known the premium 
would go up each year and would increase significantly if Mr M claimed. It would also know  
that the premium  would go up each year, even if there wasnt  a claim made,  especially as 
his dog got older. And that there  was no limit to how much the premium  could be. This 
information, or something similar,  should have been given to Mr M, particularly when he 
purchased the insurance, to allow him to better understand  the potential  long term costs of 
the policy. 
So I dont  think Liverpool Victoria  gave Mr M clear enough information. Where  I find 
something has gone wrong,  Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a 
consumer has lost out.
Mr M chose  to take out pet insurance, so he wanted  some type of cover for his dog. And, as
he chose to take out a lifetime policy, he clearly had some  interest  in the greater level of
cover it provided. If Mr M hadnt taken a lifetime policy,  he wouldve either had no cover at
all, and would have had to pay for all his pets treatment himself, or a reduced level of cover,
where he would still have found  himself  in a situation where  his pets  conditions  were no
longer covered. So I think its likely  he would still have taken the lifetime  policy, even if hed 
known the premium could increase significantly in the future.
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Mr M wasnt  so
surprised and upset  when the cost increased significantly  instead  this would have been
something he was expecting to happen.  Better  information about the policy  wouldve meant 
that he could have been more prepared for the possibility that he might not be able to afford 
to continue with the policy and that his pet might lose cover for its ongoing and pre-existing 
conditions. Mr Ms dog has now sadly passed  away. 
Mr Ms dog was already  very old and sick in 2018 which would  have been  distressing in 
itself, so the added upset  of the premium  increasing  and the possibility of not being able to 
afford to carry on with the cover would have been further upset at an already difficult  time. 
Ref: DRN29316863Hed had the policy for a long time and had got it for just this eventuality  if his dog got an 
ongoing condition.  And just when  he needed  it most he realised he might not be able to carry 
on with it. On top of that, not only was the premium increasing but the benefits  of the policy  
were reducing - increased  excesses and the claims limit had changed from £5,000  for all 
conditions not per condition. So I think the lack of clear information has resulted in a 
significant amount  of trouble and upset to Mr M.  
I can see that in 2018  when Liverpool  Victoria transferred Mr Ms policy  to its new Lifetime 
policy it made the changes clear  to him (including  the increased excesses) and gave him the 
option to cancel his cover if he wanted to. Mr Ms policy  was annually renewable and under 
the terms of the policy Liverpool Victoria didnt have to continue  to offer it every year.  
If Liverpool Victoria hadnt offered an alternative policy  which continued covering Mr Ms dog 
for its pre-existing medical conditions, Im unlikely to have thought this was fair. But they did. 
And although it was on different terms, I dont think they did anything wrong when they 
transferred his cover as Mr M had the opportunity  to accept the new terms or not. 
Mr M has benefitted from his pet insurance cover. But the award Im making isnt about  
whether Mr M has suffered a financial loss. Its about the impact that the lack of clear
information provided by Liverpool Victoria has had on Mr M, both practically and emotionally.  
I think this lack of clear information has caused Mr M significant  trouble and upset for the 
reasons Ive explained. So I think it would  be fair for Liverpool Victoria to pay him £750 as 
compensation for this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited should pay Mr M £750 compensation. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept  or
reject this decision before 20 May 2020.
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2931686