K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs W bought the policy  at a meeting in 1997  at the same time as taking  a loan. She was 
employed at the time as a paralegal  and had been there four years. Shes  told us she was 
entitled to six months full and six months  half pay as sick pay and at least three but less 
than six months pay for redundancy. Shes  also told us she didnt have any other means, 
like savings, with which to pay her loan if she couldnt work. From what  Mrs W has told us, at 
the time of the sale she was in good health  and hadnt had any health issues.
The loan was repayable over a 180 month term. The monthly loan repayment was £33.05 
with the PPI costing  an additional £3.36 making  the total monthly repayment £36.41. The 
PPI policy  didnt attract interest and could be cancelled without penalty by either party with 
Mrs W needing to give written  notice and Halifax needing to give 30 days written  notice.
The policy provided  cover  on Mrs W for accident, sickness and unemployment, and life 
cover, subject to its exclusions and limitations.  For a successful claim it offered to pay the 
amount Mrs W had to pay monthly to Halifax under  her agreement for up to 60 months for a 
disability claim and 12 months for an unemployment  claim.  The life cover would, subject to 
its terms, repay the loan on death.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the loan closed in 2002.  Mrs Ws representative has 
made lengthy and substantial  representations  on her behalf.  I will not restate them  all here, 
but I have read and considered them all carefully. In summary, Mrs Ws representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs W wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Ws representatives  believe  there  to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mrs W about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs W and the impact they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mrs W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN25443262Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ws case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
Ref: DRN25443263professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs W sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs W suffered  loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs W and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs W know  she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. 
Mrs W took the PPI at a meeting when she took her loan. The loan agreement form asked: 
Do you want Personal Loan Repayments Insurance  with boxes to say either  Yes  or No. 
On Mrs Ws form, which  she signed to take the loan, the Yes  box is marked  - and I think  it 
wouldve been apparent the No box should  be marked instead if the PPI wasnt wanted.
Like most details on the form, such as the amount being borrowed, the mark in the Yes box 
may be printed  - and I think its likely the printed details reflect  decisions Mrs W made  during 
the meeting before the form was printed for her to sign.  I say this bearing in mind that I think  
Ref: DRN25443264it likely  Mrs W wouldve known from the form that she had opted for the PPI  and the form 
presented the PPI as an insurance that customers could say Yes  or No to, depending  on 
whether they wanted it.
Mrs W has said she had no interest in PPI and has said it was just included  as part of the 
package with her loan. Ive thought about  this carefully. But taking everything into account,  
and in the light of all Ive said above, I think its more likely Mrs W knew  the PPI was optional  
and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it gave  advice during  this sale. Mrs W didnt answer  as to whether Halifax  gave 
advice or not. But if Halifax did give advice, it had to do more. With all this in mind, I think  its 
fair to proceed on the basis that Halifax gave  advice. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mrs W with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the PPI was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
Theres no record of what exactly Halifax discussed  in relation to the PPI. I dont know  what 
steps Halifax took to establish whether the PPI was a suitable recommendation for Mrs W. It 
had some limited information about her financial circumstances,  but theres no specific  
evidence to show that Halifax took steps to establish  whether Mrs W would be caught  by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the PPI didnt fully meet  her 
needs. For example,  theres nothing to suggest Halifax  considered  whether Mrs W had any 
pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the PPI was suitable  for Mrs W given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mrs W, I do think  its more likely than not the policy  was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs W had a need for the policy  allowing for the redundancy benefits and sick pay to 
which she says she wouldve been entitled,  it seems likely she would suffer a fall in 
income if she werent working  for an extended period. The PPI benefit would help her 
manage the consequences  in that situation.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs W.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs W. There was 
nothing about  her employment  or occupation which wouldve made it difficult for her to 
claim. And she didnt  have any existing health issues or pre-existing medical  conditions  
that couldve affected her ability  to claim.
-Mrs W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
the information
Ref: DRN25443265Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the PPI to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs W was given a broad description of what the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is, it would protect her payments  if she were unable  to work due 
to accident, sickness  or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  it unlikely  Mrs W wouldve taken  the PPI without any sense of 
what it was for and of how much  the premium  might be. Also, the actual  starting premium  
was set out on the credit agreement, so I think it likely Mrs W knew what  the premium would 
be when she applied  for the cover.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mrs W agreed to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs W, Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mrs W all the information she needed  
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ws. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ws representative considers to be poor value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mrs W has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude Halifax ought to have done  either.  
Ref: DRN25443266what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs W? To what extent  did she suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs W. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not she would have 
still taken the policy,  had Halifax done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs W, I have found the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs W has suffered  loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mrs W would  have acted differently or whether  she would have taken  the policy in any event.
Mrs W says she wouldnt  have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mrs W had some interest in taking payment protection  
insurance. By this I mean when Halifax offered Mrs W the PPI or advised  her there was a 
suitable product  she could  buy that would protect  her loan payments if she were  unable to 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs W was given  about  the cost was clear.  
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit and the limitations 
and exclusions,  wasnt as clear as it should have been. That said, while Im not persuaded 
Halifax made clear exactly what Mrs W would  get for a successful claim, I think it unlikely her 
expectations about what the PPI would pay in the event of a claim (enough  to meet  what  she 
had to pay monthly to Halifax  under her loan agreement with Halifax)  were significantly 
different to what the PPI actually did pay.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs W thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims if disability was because of a health issue  Mrs W knew about  
or which a doctor thought she should reasonably  have known about or which she asked 
about or got advice or treatment for from a medical  practitioner  in the 12 months before 
the policy start and which recurred  within 24 months of the policy start;
Ref: DRN25443267The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions, 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs W 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for disability, Mrs W be stopped from doing her own 
or any similar job and be stopped from doing  any paid work her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs W pause for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude the policy  wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs W from taking the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
Also, I havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mrs W wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  she didnt have any existing health issues  or pre-existing medical 
conditions and was in permanent employment,  for example. So, with all Ive said above in 
mind, I think  Mrs W still had some good  reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs W might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation mightve dissuaded some consumers in slightly  different circumstances to Mrs W 
from taking the PPI, Mrs W, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it.
If Mrs W had known she could only claim for disability if she were  stopped  from doing  her 
own or any similar job, and stopped from doing  any paid work her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do, it mightve  played  into her thinking  about what  to do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although, given her circumstances, 
on balance I think Mrs W wouldve  still been interested in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs W would still have  taken  the policy. It was suitable for her, sufficiently close to what 
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if she were  made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  or sickness.  
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mrs W would have taken the policy  in 
any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. 
Ref: DRN25443268That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs W wouldnt have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. 
Mrs W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I do not consider, in this case, it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs W in the position she wouldve been in had she not 
bought the PPI. 
Thats because,  while I accept its possible Mrs W wouldnt have taken the PPI, Im satisfied,  
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she wouldve still taken the PPI had she been 
given clear, fair and not misleading  information  about the PPI she was buying. So Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, to conclude Halifax 
should pay Mrs W compensation, as that would put her in a better  position  than she would 
have been in if everything had happened as it should have  done.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ws representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs W in a better position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021.
Ref: DRN25443269Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2544326