K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr D bought the policy in 1990 in connection  with a Marks & Spencer  charge card that he 
applied for in store. Allianz Insurance Plc has taken responsibility for this complaint, so for 
simplicity Ill just refer to Allianz in the rest of this decision.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
 Mr D says he didnt knowingly choose  to take the cover,  and that he wouldnt have 
ticked the box on the store card application  form to say that he wanted the PPI. Ive 
noted everything Mr D has said. The difficulty I have is that I cant  be sure what was 
discussed between  Mr D and Allianz when the policy was sold. And Im also mindful 
that these events took place many years ago.
I accept that its possible  PPI wasnt discussed at the time, but its equally likely that it 
was  although I can understand why Mr D may no longer remember  this. Without  
anything else to support  what Mr D has told me, I havent been able to safely 
conclude that Mr D wasnt made aware  that he had a choice about buying  the PPI. 
 Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable 
for him. But even  if it had recommended the policy, I dont  think it was unsuitable for 
Mr D. Even  though he says he would  have received some  employer  benefits  similar 
to the kind the PPI provided, the policy would have paid out in addition to those, and 
wouldve been helpful to Mr D if he couldnt  work.  
 Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mr D about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mr D would  have  been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it.
Ref: DRN20953722my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2095372