K820x#14complaint
Mr M says HSBC  UK Bank Plc should  refund two payments he made  to a third party that 
misrepresented what  it sold him.
 
background
Mr M made the first payment by debit card in September 2016 and the second by bank 
transfer in November 2016.  He says the payments were for an upgraded membership that 
the merchant  pressured  him to purchase, and the benefits and discounts promised never 
materialised. Mr M says the third party was unresponsive when he tried to complain so he 
then contacted HSBC to claim back the money paid. 
HSBC said it couldnt attempt a chargeback claim as under the scheme rules the first 
payment was outside the time limit. And as the second  payment was a bill payment  there  
was no form of protection  the bank  had transferred the money in line with Mr Ms 
instructions. Unhappy, Mr M brought his complaint  to us.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the bank had done nothing  wrong.  The 
date of the first payment  meant it fell outside the time limits for chargebacks set by visa, and 
in circumstances  like this there are no provisions  under which it can claim back authorised  
payments made using  a bank transfer.
  
Mr M disagreed saying the chargeback  request was within the permitted timeframe as the 
bank should count from April 2018,  when the third party ceased trading and Mr M therefore 
knew there was a problem. So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator, and for largely  the same reasons. I understand this will be 
very disappointing for Mr M, but Ill explain why. 
The chargeback process  is set out in the relevant card scheme rules.  It allows customers to
ask for a transaction  to be reversed if they havent received the goods or services  they paid
for. The bank first checks the basis of the customers claim against the chargeback  reasons 
to determine whether  the claim would be successful.  If it thinks  a claim wont  be successful,  
it doesnt have  to raise  a chargeback.
The card scheme rules set out time limits within which a chargeback claim will be
considered. The rules explain that a chargeback cannot be initiated if the time period since
the transaction exceeds 540 days. Mr M contacted HSBC  in January 2019, so more than 
540 days after the transaction date of September 2016. Mr M argues that the bank should 
only count from April 2018  but the chargeback  rules  are clear and set out that the dispute 
cannot exceed 540 calendar  days from the transaction processing  date.  And even if that 
wasnt the case Im not persuaded  that the Mr M didnt have problems with the third partys  
offering well before it ceased trading. I say this as it was his dissatisfaction  with its initial 
service that led to the membership upgrade in late 2016. And he has told us he also tried to 
complain repeatedly after upgrading. 
Ref: DRN22744092So HSBC  didnt act unfairly when it said it couldnt  help - it cant  bypass the rules  set out by 
the card scheme.  
The second  payment Mr M made was by bank  transfer and so it isnt covered by the 
chargeback rules. And Ive found  no other grounds  to say that HSBC  should be responsible 
for providing  Mr M with a refund. The payment  was processed in line with his instructions. 
It follows I am not asking  the bank to take any further action.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2274409