K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold him two regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies  taken out in connection with two credit cards.
Background
This complaint is about two credit  card PPI policies taken out in December 1994. The 
policies cost no more  than 79p per £100  of the outstanding card balance  and covered Mr J 
in the event he wasnt working due to accident,  sickness or unemployment. Following a 
successful claim, they would repay  10% of the outstanding balance  at the point of claim, for 
up to twelve months. The policies would also pay the outstanding balance  up to £5000 in the 
event of Mr Js death.
Lloyds says one of Mr Js credit card accounts was closed in August 2009 and the PPI 
covering that account finished  at that time. The other credit card account and the PPI policy  
covering it are still running.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Js case.
Lloyds says it doesnt know whether this was an advised sale or not, but it has assumed it 
was and that it recommended the policies  to Mr J. This is to Mr Js advantage  as it means 
Lloyds not only had to provide Mr J with enough  information about the policies  so he could 
make an informed decision about them. It also had to ensure the policies were right or 
suitable for him based on his needs and circumstances at the time. So in the absence of 
anything to suggest otherwise, Im happy to accept that this was an advised  sale and Ive 
taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
did Lloyds make it clear  to Mr J he had a choice about PPI?
Lloyds has provided  a copy of Mr Js credit card application form (one form to apply for both 
cards), which although difficult to read,  appears  to show  a tick by the PPI on the form 
indicating he has chosen to take it out, and he has signed the application form. Although the 
form isnt entirely clear,  the optional presentation of the PPI on it is consistent  with what this 
service has seen on other Lloyds application  forms from the same  brand at the same time. 
So I think it is more likely  than not Lloyds presented the policies to Mr J as optional and he 
chose to take them out. 
Ref: DRN24190532did things  happen  as they should have done  was Mr J properly advised and 
informed?
if not  has Mr J lost out?
I dont have enough evidence to know whether Lloyds advised Mr J with reasonable care 
and skill. But, based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that the PPI 
policies were suitable for him. 
He was eligible  for the policies and he has told us that in 1994 he was in good health,  in 
employment, and he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Although he says he had 6 months full time and 6 months  part time occupational sick pay 
that would  have helped him if things went wrong, he had no savings and nothing else to fall 
back on. The policies  would have paid out in addition to his sick pay and for up to 12 months  
for each  claim. So I think Mr J had a need  for his cover and that it would have been useful to 
him if he found himself  unable to work.  It would have helped him financially at what  would  be 
a difficult time.
I have seen nothing  to suggest that the policies were  unaffordable  for Mr J. The 
PPI transactions  and costs wouldve appeared on his monthly credit card statements, and in 
the event that the costs werent acceptable to Mr J, or became unaffordable,  he couldve 
cancelled either  policy at any point without penalty.  But he didnt for many years.
I dont have enough evidence to know whether Lloyds provided Mr J with sufficient 
information to make an informed decision about  his PPI. But as Ive decided above the 
policies were suitable for him, I think on the balance of probabilities its unlikely that more 
information about the PPI wouldve caused him to decide not to take the PPI out. 
So overall, while I think there mayve been  some failings in the sale of the PPI, I think its 
more likely than not, that Mr J had a choice and chose to take out the PPI policies, that they 
were suitable for him and I dont  think  he would  have  come to a different decision and turned 
down the PPI if Lloyds had given  him more  information. So I dont think Mr J lost out as a 
result of anything Lloyds did wrong when it sold him PPI, which means  Lloyds doesnt  have  
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Js other  comments,  but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI policies to Mr J. This was because 
Lloyds got a high level of commission  and profit  share  from them (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr J, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI policies premiums - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr J.
Ref: DRN24190533But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr J any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2419053