K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the service she received from Lloyds Bank PLC when attempting to 
secure new interest rate deals and further borrowing on her buy-to-let mortgages.
background
I issued my provisional decision in July 2020 a copy of which is attached  and forms part of 
this decision. 
In summary  I explained that I intended to uphold the complaint in part. 
I didnt think I could  reasonably hold Lloyds  accountable for the formal application not 
being started earlier. And I didnt think it had made a mistake in how it had charged 
interest. I also didnt think it was responsible for any costs involved when Mrs C moved out 
of one of the mortgaged  properties. And while  there  mayve been  an issue with updating 
her address,  it wasnt clear when she had moved  so I couldnt say for certain what  had 
happened. But in any event, the information Id seen indicated  that the initial reason the 
application hadnt succeeded, wasnt due to this.
I thought there were  delays in arranging an appointment for Mrs C. And when the 
application was progressed, I felt it shouldve been  clearer sooner that Lloyds lending 
criteria meant it was unlikely to succeed, which  caused an avoidable delay. And when 
dealing with the complaint  with our service  Lloyds had provided  incorrect information, 
which I thought  had caused  Mrs C significant distress. So, I set out what  I thought  Lloyds 
should do to put things  right  some of which it had already offered to do.
responses to my provisional  decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further  information  
before I reached a final decision.
Lloyds said it agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Mrs C didnt confirm if she accepted or rejected  my provisional decision.  But she provided a 
summary of the events  that had taken  place and said that she felt Lloyds  had made 
numerous mistakes. 
She reiterated shed  first approached Lloyds  about re-mortgaging  in 2017. She said it wasnt  
made clear then or later that its lending criteria meant she was unlikely to be successful in 
applying. She also confirmed the date she moved  into and out of one of her mortgaged  
properties and said that the issues with updating this address had caused the application to 
fail. She also said shed been  distressed by Lloyds providing incorrect  information  to our 
service. In summary she felt shed  been overcharged interest  by Lloyds due to its rate being  
one of the highest around and it making a number of mistakes in her application.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN29047782I know Mrs C feels very strongly about this complaint. In reaching my findings Ive taken on 
board everything that she and Lloyds has provided. As I said in my provisional decision, 
there are conflicting opinions between the parties  on what happened. And Ive had to 
decide on balance  what I think is most  likely to have happened.  
Mrs C says she has been overcharged interest by Lloyds. But I havent seen anything to 
suggest Lloyds  applied an incorrect rate of interest - the information Ive seen suggests  it 
charged the contractual rate. And Mrs C had the option to apply  for new rates or move her 
mortgages to another lender. So, I dont think I can say Lloyds has overcharged her.
Mrs C says she first contacted Lloyds about re-mortgaging  in 2017. As I said in my 
provisional findings, I agree with her on this point. But no formal application was made  until 
October 2018  for additional  borrowing on one of the properties. And based on what  Ive 
seen and been told by both parties,  I dont think I can reasonably hold Lloyds responsible  for 
the application not having been made sooner. There were delays in arranging a branch-
based appointment in 2018, which Lloyds has acknowledged. But there  were  other  channels  
available to Mrs C for her to apply.  And Mrs C was free to request changes to the other 
mortgages she held at any time.
In terms of the application criteria  not having  been  made clearer  sooner, as I said in my 
provisional findings, I think Lloyds did make a mistake here. I think it shouldve been aware 
at the point the formal application was made in October 2018, for a re-mortgage including 
additional borrowing, that its internal criteria  was likely to mean  that the application would be 
unsuccessful. And it shouldve  made  that clear to Mrs C. And by not doing  so it caused an 
unnecessary delay of approximately  one month   in relation to the account she was 
attempting to re-mortgage and borrow additional  funds on. This also resulted an 
unnecessary search being recorded on Mrs Cs credit file.
But I didnt think Lloyds  was reasonably  required, before the application was made, to 
highlight every underwriting criteria  that may apply. And the information Ive seen indicates 
that when Mrs C first spoke to Lloyds  in 2017, this criteria hadnt  been introduced.  So, Lloyds 
couldnt have  discussed this with Mrs C at that time anyway.
Mrs C has now confirmed the approximate  dates she moved into and out of one of the 
mortgage properties  confirming when  her address changed. But Im not inclined to depart 
from my original  conclusion that Lloyds  cant reasonably be held responsible for costs 
incurred in relation to her moving out of the property. I think Lloyds likely did highlight that 
living in one of the properties, which was mortgaged on a buy-to-let basis, would likely 
impact on any application  to amend that mortgage.  I think this is correct  and there  was not, 
as Mrs C has suggested, the option  to make a simple administrative change to that 
mortgage so she could continue with it on a residential basis.  But I still dont think  I can say 
that on balance  Lloyds told her she had to move out. And I still consider it is likely these 
costs would always have  been incurred  as Mrs C previously confirmed it was always her 
intention to let her property out again.
Ref: DRN29047783In terms of issues updating her address, Mrs C has now confirmed she moved out of her 
mortgaged property in July 2018.  Lloyds  records show her address details were updated in 
October 2018. Mrs C says there were delays in updating this information.  And I note the time 
frame coincides with the delays she experienced in getting a branch-based appointment. So, 
I think there could have been delays. But as I explained in my provisional decision,  the 
information Ive seen shows that it wasnt the address details being updated that initially  
impacted her mortgage application  it was Mrs C not being able to provide proof of her 
address history for the previous three years. So, while there  may have been delays in 
updating this information, I dont think this has caused Mrs C a loss.
Turning to the incorrect information provided to us by Lloyds, which was shared with Mrs C, I 
dont doubt that this was upsetting  and caused  her distress. But I think  the redress Ive 
already recommended  in respect of this is fair and reasonable.
So having  considered everything  again, Im not inclined to depart from my provisional 
findings. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mrs Cs complaint in part.
To put things right I require Lloyds Bank PLC to;
Pay Mrs C an amount  equivalent to the difference in interest she paid on her 
mortgage account ending *0200 for one month   the rate she paid Lloyds was 
5.09%. The rate she couldve  benefitted  from with her new lender was 2.44%.
Contact all relevant credit reference  agencies and arrange for the credit  searches 
related to the mortgage application in October  2018  to be removed.
Pay Mrs C £1,000,  as previously agreed, in relation to the distress caused  by it 
having provided incorrect customer data during our investigation.
If the cheque  for £50 Lloyds offered and sent as part of its initial complaint response,  
for the delays in arranging a branch-based appointment, has not been  cashed, pay 
Mrs C this amount.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29047784copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the service she received from Lloyds Bank PLC when  attempting to secure  
new interest rate deals and further  borrowing on her buy-to-let mortgages.
background
Mrs C held three buy-to-let  mortgages with Lloyds. Mrs C says she contacted Lloyds to discuss 
switching the mortgages  to new interest rate deals and to borrow  some additional money.  She says 
that discussions and her subsequent applications were ongoing for a significant time.  Part of this was 
due to her living in one of the properties at the point of enquiring. Mrs C says she was told by Lloyds 
shed have to move out before any application  could  be considered.
When the application was eventually  formally considered it was declined. Lloyds explained, because  
in addition to the three buy-to-let properties Mrs C held with Lloyds she had another  property 
mortgaged through a different lender,  so had four in total,  her application for additional borrowing  was 
considered under different  internal rules. And under those rules she did not meet  its criteria for 
lending based on her level of income.
In March 2019  Mrs C redeemed all three of her mortgages with Lloyds and moved the borrowing  
elsewhere.
Mrs C complained to Lloyds  about the service it had provided. Lloyds  did not uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint but offered her £50 for the upset caused when shed had difficulty arranging  an 
appointment. 
Unhappy with this response Mrs C asked our service to investigate her complaint. In summary she 
said she was unhappy  generally that the interest rates Lloyds offered were not competitive. She was 
also unhappy  with how long this all went on before she was told about the income requirement  for 
customers in her situation   owning multiple buy-to-let  properties. She said Lloyds  was fully aware of 
her income  significantly earlier in the process and if shed  been told the application could not have 
gone ahead for this reason, shed have moved the mortgages elsewhere much  sooner, saving 
interest.
Mrs C was also unhappy that shed  incurred moving  costs  and had to pay rent after being told her 
application couldnt go ahead while she was still living in one of her buy-to-let  properties. She said she 
understands she couldve remained in the property and just paid an administrative fee to allow  this.
Mrs C was also unhappy with the credit searches  recorded  on her credit file as a result of this 
application. She says these searches couldve been avoided if shed been made aware at the outset 
her application was unlikely to be successful. 
While investigating the complaint our service asked Lloyds for some additional information. In its 
response it provided information it said related to Mrs C but in fact belonged to another  customer. And 
this issue  persisted for some time during our investigation. Lloyds acknowledged it had made an 
error. It said Mrs Cs information had not been provided  to other parties  in error and the incorrect 
information was only provided to our service. But in light of this having  gone on for some  time and the 
distress caused to Mrs C, particularly considering the information involved,  it offered to pay a further 
£1,000.
Ref: DRN29047785An investigator considered  the complaint. He said although Mrs C had said she had problems 
arranging a meeting with Lloyds, he didnt think Lloyds had intentionally  caused this delay. He noted 
Mrs C couldve contacted Lloyds by other means and that she didnt have an application in progress 
at that time and was able to speak to other lenders. The investigator didnt think Lloyds  was wrong to 
indicate that a buy-to-let  application would be affected  by the applicant living  in the property. And he 
didnt agree  that Lloyds has said Mrs C had to move  out of the property. He also thought that Lloyds 
had applied  its lending  criteria correctly when  considering the application. He acknowledged Lloyds  
had made  errors by providing our service with information about incorrect accounts  and that this was 
likely to be upsetting for Mrs C. But overall,  he felt that the total offer made by Lloyds was fair.
Mrs C did not agree with the investigators opinion. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where information is unclear or incomplete or where testimonies and 
versions of events are conflicting,  Ive had to decide on balance what  I think  is most likely  to have 
happened.
when Mrs Cs enquiries  began
Lloyds has sent us details  of the three mortgages  Mrs C held with it, and the interest rate histories  of 
each. These  show that the three  main  mortgages moved onto Lloyds standard  variable rate (SVR)  of 
interest in May 2015,  February  2016 and August 2016 respectively. There was some additional 
borrowing on one of the accounts, taken out in 2016, that was on a fixed rate due to run until April 
2020. But by 2017 the majority of the borrowing was on a variable rate of interest and had been for 
some time. And all borrowing was redeemed  in March 2019.
Mrs C says she first tried to speak to Lloyds about her mortgages in September 2017  and this is 
when an appointment was initially  booked in. Shes also mentioned she understood the mortgages 
were on fixed  rates when she did so. But the information  from Lloyds indicates this was incorrect and 
the majority  of the borrowing was on a variable rate basis  and had been for over a year.
Lloyds records indicate  that no formal application was made  for new borrowing  or new interest rate 
products until October  2018. But Ive seen notes  from its systems, as well as text messages Mrs C 
received, that indicate Mrs C was in contact with branch-based advisers  about her accounts  in 2017 
to discuss these options. So, on balance  I think that her enquiries did begin  in 2017.  But these do not 
appear at that time to have gone further than initial  informal discussions.  And I dont think this was 
prior to her fixed rate products ending, as most of her borrowing was already on variable  rates  of 
interest by that time.
discussions in 2017
Mrs C has explained that she approached  Lloyds to try and arrange new interest rates to save  money. 
She also mentioned  that she thinks the rates offered throughout her discussions  with Lloyds were  in 
her view uncompetitive compared with the wider mortgage market.  
First on the rates offered, lenders interest rates  are a matter of their commercial judgement  and are 
based on a number of different factors.  It isnt our role to interfere with a business  commercial 
judgement or tell it what its rates should be. So, I dont  intend to comment  on this point further  other 
than to say that Mrs C was able at any stage  to apply  to move her borrowing to another  lender if she 
was unhappy with the rates offered by Lloyds.
Ref: DRN29047786Going back to her initial contact with Lloyds in 2017, I havent seen anything  to suggest that any 
formal applications were  made  at that point. Mrs C has said she had problems arranging  
appointments with advisers. As Ill go on to explain, I think conversations  did happen  with advisers 
around that time. But in any event, there were other channels available to Mrs C, other than branch-
based advisers, to apply  for new interest rates and additional borrowing  which Ive seen was 
highlighted to Mrs C in letters Lloyds sent her, including  in November 2017, when  the interest rate 
applicable to her accounts changed. Most of her borrowing was already outside of fixed rate periods 
and had been  for some time.  This suggests making these changes hadnt  been a priority  for Mrs C 
previously. It also meant  she was also largely  free to discuss moving her accounts  to other lenders at 
that stage.  And I havent  seen anything that leads me to think  Lloyds did anything to make  her think  
otherwise. So overall, I dont think I can reasonably hold Lloyds responsible  for the applications not 
being progressed in 2017 or for the accounts remaining on the SVR at that time as it appears that 
Mrs C decided  not to take them further.
Mrs Cs living arrangements  at the time and related  discussions
Mrs C has explained that, due to issues with previous tenants - including the property being left in 
disrepair - and changes  to her own living circumstances, when she first contacted  Lloyds to discuss 
the changes to the mortgages, she was living in one of the mortgaged properties. And in addition  to 
securing a new interest rate, she wanted to borrow  some additional funds against that property to 
complete renovations and repairs. She says she was told by Lloyds the applications  could not go 
ahead while she was living in one of the properties,  as the mortgage was on a buy-to-let basis.
Lloyds has confirmed that Mrs C living  in a property on which she holds a buy-to-let wouldve affected 
any application to change that mortgage. But it says this would not have prevented her from switching 
the interest rate on the other  two mortgages she held and that it made that clear.
Again, it isnt clear  exactly  why applications were not progressed to change the rates on two of the 
properties at that time  while the issue with the third, where Mrs C was living, was resolved. Lloyds 
notes suggest that this was certainly discussed in respect of one of the properties  in November 2017. 
But no formal application was made. The system notes suggesting this was discussed  leads me to 
think that Lloyds likely did explain that Mrs C living  in one of the properties  would  not impact  changing 
interest rate deals on the others.  Again, it is unclear why this didnt go further but I dont think  on 
balance I can say this was due to Lloyds as Mrs C was free to pursue  this through other channels or 
with other lenders.
The information Lloyds  has available  from prior to the formal application  indicated it understood Mrs C 
was living in one of the buy-to-let properties  in line with what she has told us. Lloyds says this was 
based on the correspondence address for the mortgage being that of the mortgaged  property  which 
it wouldnt usually expect if the property was let.
Lloyds notes also though  indicate the mortgaged property that it understood Mrs C was living  in was 
not the same one Mrs C has told us she was living  at. The notes around the further borrowing,  
indicate this was requested and applied for against the property  Lloyds thought Mrs C was living at. 
But Mrs C says she was living in a different  one of her mortgaged properties. So if Mrs C wasnt living 
in the property  that she applied  to borrow extra money against  this seems at odds with the purpose 
Mrs C has described for wanting the additional borrowing.
There is obviously some conflicting information here. And this has been a theme throughout the 
complaint. I think its likely  based on this there was some misunderstanding between the two parties 
from the outset and throughout  the discussions. This is not necessarily either  parties  fault. But I think  
this has affected  other things  discussed. 
Mrs C says she was told she had to move out of her mortgaged property  before she could take any 
applications further.  And this prompted her to do so. Lloyds has said it didnt tell Mrs C she had to 
move out of the property, just that any changes to the mortgage on that property would be affected by 
her living there. 
Ref: DRN29047787I think  it is likely that Lloyds highlighted  that Mrs C living  in one of the properties  was not in line with 
the original  agreement  which was on a buy-to-let basis. And Im satisfied that Lloyds likely did 
explain that Mrs C living in one of the mortgaged properties would affect any subsequent  applications 
to amend the mortgage on that property. I think that information was correct. On balance though I 
dont think it is likely  Lloyds categorically said Mrs C had to move out of the property.
Mrs C has said that as a result of the discussion she moved into rented accommodation.  She says 
this has meant she incurred  costs she wouldnt otherwise have had to as she thinks she couldve just 
paid an administrative fee to remain in the property. As Ive said I dont think its likely  Lloyds insisted it 
was necessary she move.  But in any event, I dont  think  this has resulted in costs that wouldnt 
otherwise have been incurred.
Lloyds has said that if Mrs C had wanted to remain in the property, which  she held a buy-to-let 
mortgage on, a separate full application for a residential  mortgage wouldve been required. And there 
was no process  to make  an administrative change to the existing mortgage to allow this. Based on 
what Ive seen  and my knowledge of this type of dispute, I think  this is likely  correct. To live in a 
property a residential mortgage wouldve been required. And this is subject to different regulation to 
buy-to-let mortgages. So, I think a full application  wouldve  been required.  So I dont think, as Mrs C 
has said, she couldve simply paid an administrative  fee and then proceeded with the application  to 
amend the buy-to-let mortgage as she says she intended. 
Mrs C has also confirmed to our service that her intention  was always to move out and let the 
property again after carrying out work. With this in mind, I dont think  arrangements for her to continue 
to live in the property  long term  including amending the mortgage to allow this - were likely 
discussed with Lloyds. And I dont think shed have applied for a residential mortgage  if it was always  
her intention to move out and let the property again. And if she always intended  to leave the property 
and rent it out again, shed have always incurred  the costs  of moving and alternative accommodation.
So overall, I dont think I can reasonably hold Lloyds  accountable for any costs involved with her 
moving out of the mortgaged property. 
Lloyds criteria and whether additional information shouldve been provided in 2017
Mrs C has also argued that, at the time of these initial discussions, Lloyds  was aware of her income. 
And it therefore knew at that point that any application to make changes to her mortgage would have 
been unsuccessful in 2017, as the number  of properties  she owned, including those  mortgaged with 
different businesses,  meant different lending  criteria would apply. And her income meant she would 
not meet  these criteria.  She says if it had made that clear  she couldve applied to other lenders at that 
point.
Again I think  Mrs C already had the option to apply to other  lenders and I havent seen anything to 
suggest Lloyds said otherwise.
I agree that Lloyds had some knowledge of Mrs Cs income in 2017 when initial discussions took 
place. As I mentioned she had taken a further  advance  in 2016 at which point income details were 
recorded. And it also appeared to be aware  at that stage of how many properties  she held. But as Ive 
said, matters  didnt go further  than informal discussions  in 2017.  So I dont think the advisers Mrs C 
spoke to at that stage  couldve reasonably  been required to highlight every underwriting criteria that 
might be applicable. 
More importantly  though, Lloyds has provided evidence that the income requirement in its internal 
rules for applicants with multiple  properties, which later led to the application being declined,  wasnt 
actually introduced  / didnt become part of its underwriting criteria  until early  2018.  So, at the point of 
the initial  discussions in 2017 this criteria wasnt in place. So, it couldnt  have been highlighted to Mrs 
C. So I dont think it did anything wrong in 2017 by not talking about how her income might affect the 
application  as at that stage it didnt.
Ref: DRN29047788enquiries and the application in 2018
Account notes provided by Lloyds show it had no further contact  from Mrs C about these  enquiries 
until an application was made in October 2018.  Information  provided by Mrs C also suggests  there 
was a break in contact until August 2018 when she enquired again  about rate switches and further 
borrowing and tried to make  an appointment in branch. 
delays in getting an appointment
Mrs C has said she again had difficulty getting  an appointment in 2018.
Lloyds has acknowledged  there  was a delay in arranging an appointment  when she contacted  it in 
August 2018  and that it took until early  October 2018  for her to speak to an adviser  and begin an 
application. And it offered £50 for the inconvenience this caused. I understand it sent Mrs C a cheque  
for this amount. I think that offer is fair. The availability  of appointments in branch  are subject to 
demand. And there were other options available to Mrs C to discuss her requirements with Lloyds. 
So, while I appreciate that this was likely frustrating, I think the offer made  by Lloyds in respect of this 
fairly addresses this issue.
updating Mrs Cs address
Mrs C says there were delays  in her address being updated.  She says she tried to do this in branch 
but it wasnt  done,  meaning  she had to request  this again  which was frustrating. Mrs C appears to be 
referring to her address  change after moving out of her mortgaged  property following  the discussions  
in 2017. She hasnt  said when exactly she moved address or when the amendment  was initially  
requested. Although notes of discussions Mrs C had with an adviser in 2018 suggest that the move 
happened the previous year.
Lloyds records show Mrs Cs address  was successfully updated at the beginning of October  2018.  
And it doesnt have record of a request  prior to that  although if this was not carried out successfully, 
I wouldnt expect there to be a record.
I dont doubt that this wouldve been frustrating if Mrs C had to make the same request more than 
once. But I dont think this has caused Mrs C a loss. Mrs C has said it delayed  her application. But 
Lloyds records indicate  that the initial issue that affected the application wasnt to do with her address  
not being  updated  it was to do with proof of address  for the previous three years not being 
immediately available. So, while I dont doubt Mrs C mayve been frustrated, I dont think  Lloyds 
needs to do any more  in respect  of this as the address details were corrected.
Mrs Cs application and how it was handled
Lloyds records showed  that Mrs C spoke to an adviser  and applied for further borrowing and a new 
interest rate on one of her mortgages at the beginning of October  2018. A credit search was carried 
out and the application  was initially unsuccessful  which Lloyds has said was due to address history 
being incomplete. Evidence was then provided  to confirm address history and the application  then 
passed the initial credit score. But it was unsuccessful due to Mrs Cs income not meeting Lloyds 
internal criteria. And Lloyds records show this was confirmed in November 2018.
Mrs C is unhappy that the application went ahead, as she feels  Lloyds knew  that her income would 
not have met its criteria  before the application was made. And she is also unhappy  credit searches 
were run as part of the application. As Ive said, there was a gap in communication between Mrs C 
and Lloyds until August 2018. And it appears Mrs C did not speak to an adviser until October  2018.  
So this is the earliest this could  reasonably have been discussed.
Ref: DRN29047789In terms of whether Lloyds  shouldve  made it clear at the point the application  was begun  in October  
2018 that the application would be affected by Mrs Cs level of income  and whether this caused a 
delay, I think it couldve  done more here. Based on what Ive seen this contact was different to what  
happened in 2017. An application was made and progressed by the adviser. So discussions obviously 
went further than previously.
As Ive said Lloyds introduced its criteria  in relation to customers that owned multiple  properties in 
early 2018.  These  were  in place at the time the application started in October  2018. Ive seen 
evidence that suggests Lloyds was aware at that point  how many properties  Mrs C held. I think  this 
shouldve alerted  the adviser that the application would be considered  under  different internal rules  by 
Lloyds. And they couldve  considered this before it was submitted. And if they had, and had discussed  
it with Mrs C, I think it wouldve been clear  then that the application would be unlikely to succeed.
Lloyds has said an application has to be made and underwritten before a lending decision can be 
made. Which is true. But this isnt about the lending decision. I think  the lending decision made  was 
done so in line with Lloyds criteria. The issue though is whether the adviser should reasonably have 
been aware  of this criteria and its likely  impact on this application for further lending when  the 
discussions began again in October 2018, before the application was made. And I think  they 
shouldve been  especially as, based on the notes available, the adviser  indicated they were  familiar  
with Mrs C and her accounts.
So, I think if the adviser had correctly considered  Mrs Cs circumstances and the criteria, which as the 
experts in this transaction they shouldve  been aware of, they couldve made it clear  to Mrs C that this 
application for additional  borrowing would not have  succeeded in October  2018.  As a result I think its 
likely Mrs C wouldve  decided  not to proceed and couldve  looked at alternatives at that point. By not 
explaining this, it took a formal application  and an extra month for Mrs C to find out this information. 
And I think this was a mistake by Lloyds. So Ive gone on to consider the impact of this mistake.
When the application was declined,  Mrs C began the process  of switching all of her borrowing to 
another lender.  And had she been told that the application for further borrowing would  likely  not 
succeed in October 2018 rather than waiting  for the result of the application, provided in November 
2018, she couldve started this process a month earlier. She has sent us evidence that the interest 
rate on the mortgages after she has switched  to the new lender were  lower than what she was paying 
with Lloyds.  So arguably she couldve benefitted  from these new rates a month earlier  than she did.
But Mrs C was free at anytime to switch her other two buy-to-let mortgages to a different lender. The 
application for further borrowing did not prevent her doing so earlier.  So, I dont think itd be 
reasonable to ask Lloyds to pay the difference in interest on the other two buy-to-let mortgages for a 
month  as the delay in sharing the relevant information did not cause this delay.
But I think Lloyds error has caused Mrs C to pay more interest than she would otherwise have done 
on one of her mortgages. The mortgage with Lloyds that she applied for additional borrowing on 
(account ending  *0200)  had an interest rate of 5.09%.  She has evidenced that, after the application 
was declined, she moved her borrowing to a different lender with an interest rate of 2.44%. Had 
Lloyds not caused  the one month  delay, I think Mrs C couldve begun applying for this new mortgage 
a month earlier than she did, and benefitted from the lower rate of interest for a month longer than she 
did. So, I think  it would be fair for Lloyds to pay Mrs C the difference  in interest that she incurred as a 
result of its error.
Turning to the credit  searches as a result of the application made  to Lloyds - lending applications  
generally involve credit searches. And Mrs C applied for credit with Lloyds, so I dont think  it made an 
error running searches. But had the adviser  correctly  explained the likely  impact of Lloyds lending 
criteria, which they shouldve been  aware  would be relevant to this application, I dont think  Mrs C 
wouldve gone  ahead  with the application. So, a search of her credit file would not have happened. 
So, I think Lloyds should arrange for these credit searches to be removed from Mrs Cs credit file.
Ref: DRN290477810data issues during the complaint
Lastly, as I explained previously, during our investigation Lloyds incorrectly  provided  us information  
relating to a different customer,  mistakenly  saying this related to Mrs C. Lloyds acknowledged that this 
was a mistake,  and that it shouldve realised this error sooner. And it accepts  that this likely caused 
Mrs C distress. As a result if offered her £1,000.
Lloyds has said Mrs Cs information  has not been provided to another party  in error. And I havent 
seen anything  to indicate  otherwise. I understand that this was likely  distressing for Mrs C and I know 
she feels strongly about the matter. But in the circumstances, I think the offer made  by Lloyds in 
respect of providing  incorrect information to our service  in relation to Mrs Cs complaint is fair. So, I 
dont think it needs to do any more to address this issue.
   
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I currently think Mrs Cs complaint should  be upheld in part.
To put things right I intend to recommend that Lloyds Bank PLC should;
Pay Mrs C an amount equivalent to the difference in interest she paid on her mortgage 
account ending *0200 for one month  the rate she paid Lloyds was 5.09%. The rate she 
couldve benefitted from with her new lender was 2.44%.
Contact  all relevant credit reference agencies and arrange for the credit searches  related to 
the mortgage  application  in October  2018 to be removed.
Pay Mrs C £1,000  as previously agreed in relation to the distress caused by it having 
provided incorrect customer data during our investigation.
If the cheque for £50 Lloyds offered and sent as part of its initial  complaint response has not 
been cashed,  pay Mrs C this amount.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2904778