K821x#15complaint
Ms X is unhappy with the service  she received  from Allianz Insurance Plc when she
attempted to make  a claim on her car insurance  policy. She says this led to a fault claim
being recorded against her.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this case in December 2019  which set out the 
background to the case and what I was minded to decide. Please note that, at the 
complainants request,  Ive referred to her as Ms X rather  than the different pseudonym 
I originally used:
Background
Ms X was involved in a car accident  in September 2017. She reported  this to her car 
insurer, Allianz, and it routed her to an accident  management company  which  Ill refer 
to as K. She says she made it clear that she only wanted to proceed with a claim if 
the third party  involved  in the accident accepted liability. After  being told he had, 
Ms X used K to recover her lossesincluding  her repair bill and car hire costsfrom 
the third partys insurer.
In May 2018, Ms X discovered that the third party was seeking to recover  his costs  
from Allianz. He was able to do this because his insurer had covered Ms Xs losses  
on a without prejudice basis, leaving him free to pursue further action.  Allianz 
agreed to split the third partys costs  with his insurer on a 50/50 basis. In other 
words, neither party had officially  accepted full liability for the accident and resultant 
losses.
Unhappy with the impact  the fault claim could  have on future  premiums,  Ms X raised  
a complaint with Allianz. It admitted she hadnt  been  told that the third-party  insurer  
had only agreed  to cover her costs on a without prejudice basis. It offered £50 
compensation for this. But it maintained that it had settled the third partys  claim 
correctly. Ms X disagreed and referred  the matter  to our service.  She said she would 
have negotiated an each party bears own loss position if shed known  liability wasnt 
settled  meaning a fault claim wouldnt have been recorded against her.
Our investigator pointed  out that, under the terms of the car insurance  policy, Allianz 
was allowed to settle the claim on her behalf  (as it did). He said she wasnt entitled to 
negotiate the claim as shes  proposed. And he concluded that it was reasonable for 
Allianz to settle  the claim on a 50/50  basis given the lack of independent  evidence  as 
to the cause of the accident.  He also pointed out that it was the third partys claim 
which resulted in a fault claim being  recorded  against her  not the costs she 
recovered initially. Overall, he felt the £50 offered was a fair level of compensation  for 
the miscommunication.
Ms X disputed that her proposed negotiation would have breached the policy terms. 
She said the each  party  bears own loss option had been suggested by Allianz. As 
she doesnt accept  the investigators  view, her case has been  passed to me for a 
decision.
Ref: DRN20051082My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im minded to 
uphold it, albeit not necessarily for the exact  reasons submitted by Ms X.
As a result of a road traffic accident,  a motorist may incur both insured and uninsured  
losses. For example, a driver whos comprehensively insured  may recover her repair  
costs from her insurer under the policy  but still have  to seek recovery of other 
uninsured losses  (e.g. hire-car costs, damages  for personal injuries, lost earnings, 
policy excess, etc) from any third party whose  negligence  caused or contributed to 
the accident.
The insured  losses  Ms X incurred due to the accident werent covered by Allianz  
and it didnt try to recover them (or uninsured losses) from the third party and/or his 
insurer. They were recovered  by K, an accident management company with whom  
Ms X signed a separate repair, recovery and storage agreement  and [car]  hire 
agreement. This is not itself wrongful,  as there  can be advantages to using such 
credit hire rather  than making an insurance  claim  for example, it covers uninsured 
losses as well, and protects  your excess and/or no claims discount. However, Ms X 
doesnt appear to have  freely opted  to use K in place  of her car insurance; she 
contacted Allianz  to make a claim. But Allianz has told us that it uses  interactive  
voice response (IVR) to route calls about non-fault claims to K. That seems to be 
how K ended  up dealing with the issue rather than Allianz.
If an insurer is directing a customer away from using their policy,  Id expect  it to make 
that very clear to them.  But Ms X appears to have  thought that K was merely 
assisting with a claim  on her Allianz policy, not carrying out a completely different 
service which  isnt regulated in the same way. I can understand why. For example,  
documents such as Ms Ks statement of truth which K used to help recover her 
costswere branded  in relation to her Allianz car insurance.
So, although  Ms X would have been  aware that she had a contract  with K, I dont 
consider it sufficiently clear that this wasnt part of/complementary to a claim on her 
car insurance. Allianz should have done  more to make it clear that she was using  K 
instead of her policy. What its told us about how it routes calls suggests  she was 
never given  the option of pursuing a non-fault claim through her policy.  I consider this 
a serious omission,  as Ms X is paying  Allianz a premium to take on the risk of 
indemnifying insured  losses in situations like this. A policyholder doesnt always  need 
or want to claim for uninsured losses too  and even  if they do, these can often be 
piggy-backed onto a claim for insured  losses  at relatively little extra cost (which the 
insurer can deduct from any final settlement).  The key point is that the policyholder 
should be given  clear information  so they can make  an informed choice about the 
nature and extent  of the claim they wish to make and the potential  consequences for 
any uninsured  losses  or future insurance costs.
In addition, Allianz admits  that Ms X was mis-advised about the basis of the 
settlement. It wasnt made clear  that the third party could try to recover his costs. So 
essentially, what Im considering is  what situation  would she likely be in but for 
these errors?
Ref: DRN20051083The claim Allianz considered in May 2018  has been  recorded as a fault claim, 
meaning it had to pay out an amount  it couldnt  recover (beyond normal  claim costs). 
It paid for half of the third partys costs.  Under  the terms of the policy, Allianz  was 
within its contractual rights to settle  the third partys claim as it saw fit. And given the 
lack of independent evidence from either side, I can understand  why it agreed to a 
50/50 settlement.  However, I consider it unlikely that the third partys claim would 
have been submitted and settled in this way but for the failings in how Ms Xs 
recovery was handled.
Ive already concluded that, when Ms X contacted Allianz about the accident, she 
should have been given  the option  of claiming  through Allianz rather than K. If she 
had beenand if shed been told that liability wasnt fully and finally  settledI dont 
think she would have  ended up pursuing all her losses through  K. The whole purpose 
of accident management companies  is to seek uninsured losses from the other side. 
But records  from the time of the accident  show that Ms X held off from incurring or 
seeking any costs  until after she thought  liability had been settled. I dont think she 
would have incurred  and claimed  such losses (some  of which may not have  been  
strictly necessary) either through K or Allianzif shed known that liability wasnt 
finally settled, meaning the third party  could try and recover  his losses.
Ms X has said that, had she been  fully informed,  she would have negotiated an each 
party bears own loss settlement. Under  the terms of her policy,  Ms X would have  
been able to do this so long as Allianz agreed.  As Ms X has told us she found  out 
about this option from Allianz,  it seems likely it would have done so. Attempting  to 
settle in that way would have minimised Allianzs  ultimate liability in relation to the 
accident.
I also consider it likely that this settlement would have been accepted by the third 
party/his insurer. His repair costs  (£165.27) were significantly lower than Ms Xs 
(£1,617.35). She says his damage was limited  to a small amount of paintwork being  
transferred onto his van  which  fits with the level of his repair costs. And her car was 
dented, which she says she was prepared to leave unfixed. Given the low level of 
damage to the third partys car and the disparity  between the costs, I think it would 
have been beneficial for the third partys  insurer to accept an each party bears own 
loss proposal. 
As it was, Ms X incurred costs and recovered these from the third partys insurer.  
And its of significance that she recovered these using K rather than Allianz. As well 
as her repair costs, Ms Xs agreement with K meant she was also seeking substantial 
hire costs (plus the cost of an engineers report). This brought her recovery  amount 
up to £5,085.31. Had Ms X decided to proceed  with a claim through Allianz,  she 
would only have been entitled to a small courtesy car for any period when her own 
car was in for repairs.  And it would  also have been provided through the approved 
repairer, with whom the insurer  would have a contractual relationship. If there were 
problems with the repairs, Ms X would have been  able to seek redress through 
Allianz. And her costs were likely significantly higher than they would have been if 
shed claimed through Allianz. Its arguable this may have been a factor in the third 
partys decision to try and recover his losses.
Ref: DRN20051084Id also point out that, when we questioned K on why the third-party insurer  agreed to 
cover all of Ms Xs costs,  it told us this could suggest that the third party had a 
weaker case at that time. This suggests Ms Xs position was prejudiced  by leaving 
liability open.
Overall, Ive concluded that Allianz failed to deal with this incident as it should  have 
done. And this likely affected  the way the claim situation progressed. Had Allianz  
presented Ms X with a clear choice about whether to use K, I dont think she would 
have done so. If shed instead  dealt with Allianz  directly, I think its unlikely that 
Allianz would have been left out-of-pocket.
As such,  I conclude that it would be fair and reasonable  for Allianz  to stop reporting  
this as a fault claim. And if it charged her a higher premium as a result of the claim, it 
should refund her the difference between this and what she should have been 
charged, plus 8% simple  interest per year. 
Allianz has also offered  £50 for the miscommunication. But this was offered on the 
basis that, although Ms X was upset and surprised to find out about the fault claim,  it 
would always have  been settled in that way. As Ive concluded that this situation  was 
probably avoidable, Im not persuaded that £50 fully reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused by Allianzs  errors.  Ms X has clearly had to go to some lengths 
to get this issue resolved. This has been upsetting and frustrating  for her. Ive 
therefore decided  that Allianz should  increase the compensation by £200  to £250 in 
total. I consider  this a fairer reflection of the distress and inconvenience  Ms X has 
suffered because of Allianzs error   and its in line with awards weve previously  
made in similar cases.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional decision is that Allianz Insurance Plc 
should:
Remove the claim made against  Ms X from all relevant databases
Reinstate Ms Xs No Claims Discount as if the claim  hadnt  been made
Refund any additional premium charged as a result of reporting the fault  
claim, plus 8% simple interest per year
Pay Ms X £250 compensation (inclusive  of the £50 its already  offered).
Im planning  to ask Allianz to pay the sum within 28 days  of being notified by us of 
Ms Xs acceptance of any final decision,  failing which interest will accrue at the 
simple rate of 8% a year from the date of decision  to the date of settlement (less any 
tax properly deductible).
I invited both parties to provide further  comments/evidence before I made my final decision. 
Ms X confirmed shed  been unaware  that her claim had been routed  away from Allianz. And 
she says she only asked  K for a small courtesy car (which is what  I said she would have 
been entitled to if Allianz  had handled  the claim). She also raised the following points: 
Ref: DRN20051085She wants Allianz to write to her confirming that it has removed the fault claim from 
the database.
She didnt renew her cover with Allianz. It quoted her a much  high premium at 
renewal, so she switched insurers.
Shes disappointed in the £250  compensation, although she appreciates  that its a 
significant increase  from the £50 Allianz  offered.
Allianz said it wouldnt agree to remove the incident  from the databases, as its required to 
report all incidents regardless of whether a claim is made.  Our investigator clarified that the 
decision proposed  that the claim,  not the incident, should be removed. In response,  Allianz  
said it would  wait for my revised decision then confirm acceptance. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision.
Regarding Allianzs  response, I recommended that the claim should be removed from the 
relevant databases.  Thats because Im not persuaded one would have gone ahead  if Allianz  
had dealt with Ms Xs initial  contact as it should have done. Allianz is correct that the incident 
can be reported on the databases   but as notification only. Thats  because  Ms X was 
always required to report the incident  to Allianz  (as she did)  and Allianz was always  
required to report this on the databases,  regardless of whether it result in a claim. An 
incident, as opposed to a fault claim, wont affect  Ms Xs eligibility for a No Claims Discount.
I know Ms X is disappointed about the compensation. As set out in my provisional decision,  I 
do agree  that she suffered distress  and inconvenience due to Allianzs  errors.  But she hasnt 
provided any additional information about the impact  on her which persuades  me that more 
compensation would be fair or reasonable.  So Im not amending  this award.
Ms X has clarified that she took out cover with a new insurer  when her Allianz policy ended 
in 2018, because her renewal quote  increased  substantially. My provisional decision said 
Allianz should Refund any additional  premium  charged as a result of reporting  the fault  
claim, plus 8% simple interest per year. This hasnt changed. Allianz  should  calculate the 
difference between  what  Ms X has actually paid for cover with her new insurer(s)   and what 
she would  have paid if shed continued to get cover from Allianz, had the claim been notified 
as incident only. This calculation should cover  the period from when Ms Xs Allianz policy  
ended, to when her current  policy  either ends or its cost is amended to reflect the removal  of 
the claim from the relevant databases  (whichever  is earlier).  Shell  need  to provide 
information about what shes paid for her car insurance since changing insurers,  so that 
Allianz can calculate this amount. Im satisfied this award is fair, as it seems  likely Ms X 
would have continued with her Allianz cover had it not been for the fault claim and the impact  
it had on the renewal quote.
Although Ms X no longer  holds cover with Allianz,  it should still be able to issue  her with a 
No Claims Discount certificate  for the period it covered her. Once the incident is updated on 
the relevant databases, that means Ms Xs future premiums wont be adversely affected by 
the fault claim thats currently  being reported. As Ms X has suggested, I agree it would be 
prudent for Allianz  to write out to her once  its done  this. So Ill include this direction in my 
final decision. 
Ref: DRN20051086So, for the reasons set out above, my final decision  is materially the same as my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Allianz Insurance Plc should:
Remove the claim made against  Ms X from all relevant databases.  The incident can 
still be reported.
Reinstate Ms Xs No Claims Discount as if the claim  hadnt  been made  and 
provide reasonable proof  of this for future  applications.
Refund any additional premium charged as a result of reporting the fault  claim, plus 
8% simple interest  per year. This is subject to Ms X providing reasonable evidence of 
the additional amount shes paid since switching insurers  and is only for the period 
affected (i.e. from when  Ms Xs Allianz policy ended, to when  her current  policy either 
ends or its cost is amended to reflect the removal of the claim from the relevant 
databases [whichever  is earlier]).
Pay Ms X £250 compensation (inclusive  of the £50 its already  offered).  
The outstanding sums should be paid within 28 days of being  notified by us of Ms Xs 
acceptance of my final decision,  failing which interest will accrue  at the simple  rate of 8% a 
year from the date of decision  to the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible).  
Once Allianz has complied with the decision, it should write  to Ms X confirming the action its 
taken  including that its removed the fault claim from the relevant  databases.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms X to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020. 
Rachel Loughlin  
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2005108