K820x#14complaint
Ms W says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Ms W took out with a store card in 1994. Its been 
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint.  Ill explain why below.
FICL has sent us a copy of Ms Ws application  form for the store card.  This included  a 
section on PPI, with yes  and no boxes to be ticked to show  whether she wanted to take it 
out. And the yes  box has been  ticked.
Based on this, I think its likely FICL  made it clear to Ms W that she had a choice about the 
PPI. And that she chose  to take it, knowing  she didnt have to.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms W, so it didnt have to check it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure she got the information  she needed to decide  if the PPI was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than shes  told us she wouldve  been 
entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant  she didnt  need to rely on her savings to make her 
repayments if she wasnt earning. So it looks like it couldve been useful to her. And so I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI wouldve  put Ms W off taking it out.
Ref: DRN26118402my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2611840