K821x#15complaint
Miss G and Mr H are unhappy with the way their home insurance claim for water  damage 
was handled by QIC Europe Ltd.
background
In April 2018 Miss G and Mr H made  a claim to QIC following their discovery of black  mould 
in their bathroom. It was discovered that the toilet cistern had been leaking. QIC sent out a 
surveyor who initially accepted the claim and arranged for drying equipment to be installed. 
The equipment was delivered but then not used as QIC then decided  it wasnt liable to pay 
the claim because of an exclusion for rot in its policy.  In light of the fact that its surveyor  said 
the claim would  be paid it said it would still pay it, but only as a cash  settlement  with a 
deduction for the repair of parts affected  by rot. It put forward  its proposed cash settlement of 
£3,866 (exclusive  of VAT) in early May 2018. Miss G and Mr H instructed a contractor  who 
quoted for the work at £8,700. 
The final cash settlement  that QIC agreed  to pay was £5,846.84 excluding VAT  Miss G 
and Mr Hs contractor wasnt VAT registered.  This excluded any work  related to repairing the 
parts affected by rot and the cost of a new WC and basin. Miss G and Mr H used 
dehumidifiers instead of QICs drying equipment.
Miss G and Mr H were  unhappy with the delays in coming out to scope the work and with 
QICs decision not to cover parts of the work,  pointing out that if this had been  made  clear  to 
them earlier they could've started repairs. They also had to stay away from the property for a 
few days as their child had had an operation and they were concerned about the bad  air 
caused by the mould. They stayed in a caravan  owned by Miss Gs parents. They  were  also 
concerned that they were told they couldnt use a contractor who wasnt VAT registered.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that it was unreasonable  for QIC to rely on 
the exclusion for rot and that it should in those circumstances pay the balance  of Miss G and 
Mr Hs claim,  less the cost of the WC and basin. She further recommended that QIC pay a 
disturbance allowance for the family for five days and pay £150 compensation.
Miss G and Mr H accepted this. QIC agreed  to the disturbance allowance payment and the 
compensation. It maintained that it was right to apply the exclusion for rot. It asked for a 
further breakdown  of the work from Miss G and Mr Hs contractor. They  werent able to 
provide it, as the contractor no longer had the information.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
exclusion for rot
The exclusion is for loss or damage  as a result of  ... wet or dry rot (regardless of the 
cause). Our view about such an exclusion is clear, and has been for some  years.  We dont 
regard it as reasonable to use such an exclusion where the rot is the direct result of the 
escape of water and the consumer wasnt able to detect it until it became obvious. Here that 
Ref: DRN25867302was because Miss G and Mr H noticed  the presence  of black mould. And I havent seen any 
evidence in the papers to suggest that Miss G and Mr H ought  to have been aware of the 
damage sooner  (or whether it would have  made  any difference to the repairs needed).
So in this case I think it was unreasonable for QIC to rely on the exclusion and to exercise 
the option to pay a cash settlement when  it was in a position to use its own contractors. I 
understand that would  have been Miss G and Mr Hs preferred option. So I dont think that 
QIC should pay based on what its contractors would charge. Effectively Miss G and Mr H 
were denied that option. So QIC should  pay the balance of Miss G and Mr Hs quote for the 
work. The cost of the WC and basin (of £800) wouldnt be included  as they were the items 
that broke down, so its fair to deduct  that cost.
QIC also said it wouldnt pay for the carpet (which was included in the contractors quote) 
unless it received a separate quote, This was for £300 and appears reasonable to me so 
should be paid.
Miss G and Mr H paid the excess previously. As the initial work carried  out by QIC was less 
than the excess  it refunded £126. Its reasonable to deduct that figure as the whole claim is 
now being paid.
I also note that the further breakdown of the work is no longer available.  Miss G and Mr Hs 
contractor didnt break down the quote  fully as a surveyor might. But I have to bear in mind  
that a local contractor whos not VAT registered might  not be able to supply that sort of 
information. Also I bear in mind that the quote  included the carpet, work to do with repairing 
the rot damaged parts and a small amount of preventative work.  Since the extra  works  
werent included  in QICs scope and as the overall quote isnt that far in excess of the final 
payment made by QIC, I still think it should pay the proposed settlement. 
The figures are:
Miss G and Mr Hs quote             £8,700.00
less:
balance of excess          £  126.00
WC/Basin                £   800.00
Settlement already  paid £5,846.84
£6,772.84
Balance payable £1,927.16
To this should be added interest at 8%. This should be paid from 8 August 2018, the date of 
QICs final response letter until it makes  the payment.
VAT registered contractor
Miss G and Mr H say that they were told they wouldnt  be paid because  they had chosen to 
use a contractor that wasnt VAT registered.  I think there was a misunderstanding  here.  I 
dont think QIC objected  to Miss G and Mr H using an unregistered contractor. And it did pay 
a cash settlement. The issue was simply that it wouldnt make a payment for VAT until it 
received a VAT receipt which is reasonable. There was no question  of Miss G and Mr H not 
receiving a payment  because of this. As it happens  they continued to use the same 
contractor  this didnt affect the payment they received. 
Ref: DRN25867303compensation
I do think that there were  some delays. It took eight days to attend  the property initially  and 
13 days before the drying contractors attended and, as Ive said this equipment  wasnt used 
as QIC said it would only pay a cash settlement. It then took a further  three weeks  before 
QICs surveyor could make  a second  site visit to scope the work.
I also think that the decision to pay a cash settlement  only was unreasonable. As Miss G and 
Mr H have pointed out they could have  started the work earlier  had they known of the stance 
QIC was taking. I think the £150  proposed  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused is 
reasonable.
disturbance allowance
Miss G and Mr H were  away from the property with their family  for five days. During that time 
they were in a caravan. I think  the proposal  to pay the disturbance allowance, which QIC has 
accepted, of £10 per adult and £5 per child per day is reasonable. I calculate that to be £150 
(two adults  and two children).        
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require QIC Europe  Ltd to
pay the balance  of £1,927.16 in respect of the claim.
add interest* to that figure at the rate of 8% from 8 August 2018  until it repays Miss G 
and Mr H.
pay a disturbance allowance, as set out above,  of £150.
pay compensation of £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*QIC Europe Ltd is required by HM Revenue  and Customs to deduct tax from any interest paid. 
Should Miss G and Mr H request it, QIC Europe  Ltd should  provide them  with a certificate showing 
how much  tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, they can reclaim  it.
Ref: DRN2586730