K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  HSBC UK Bank Plc closed her accounts after she was the victim of a 
scam and has paid her only £250  compensation
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties and are not in dispute, so I wont  
repeat them  again here.  Ill focus,  instead,  on giving reasons for my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator,  for much  the same reasons.
Its clear Mrs M didnt  realise she was falling  victim to a fairly sophisticated scam. She 
sought advice  from the bank before transferring some money shed received into her 
account  which,  it turns out, was from a loan that had been taken out in her name 
fraudulently. And I think the bank could, and should,  have done  more to uncover the scam 
before any money  was paid away. However, I understand the loan company hasnt sought  to 
hold Mrs M liable for the debt, so she hasnt lost out financially as a result of the banks 
mistakes.
The bank is entitled to decide  who it has a relationship with and the account  terms and 
conditions set out the circumstances in which it can close accounts. Ive considered  whether 
HSBC fairly  applied those terms and conditions  when it closed all of Mrs Ms accounts in 
January 2019.   
The bank says it made this decision because Mrs M moved  some  of the proceeds from the 
fraudulent loan application  into another of her accounts and also spent  some  of that money. I 
realise she did so after telling the bank  about  the fraud and seeking their advice. And agree 
with Mrs M that the bank  shouldve ring-fenced this money and/or returned it to the loan 
company sooner. I can also accept that she may have been  trying to protect herself by 
opening a new account and I see she left some of the remaining loan proceeds in her old 
account for some time. But, she did, as HSBC  asserts, also spend  some of the money. And I 
think its arguable  that if she was still worried  about  the remaining loan proceeds she ought 
reasonably to have  chased up the bank about  this, rather  than taking matters  into her own 
hands and moving  the money  around.
In all the circumstances I dont think the banks  decision to close the accounts without notice 
was unfair  or inappropriate. And I think the £250  compensation  it has offered is sufficient in 
the circumstances. I understand the compensation has not yet been paid but is still available 
if Mrs M choses to accept it  she should  contact the bank direct  in that respect.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2020.
Ref: DRN25006002Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2500600