K820x#14complaint
Mrs P has complained that Europaische  Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) unfairly  refused to 
continue to provide  cover  for her husband  Mr P under  their annual travel policy following a 
diagnosis of cancer.
ERV includes its agents.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out this this annual policy on 7 January  2017,  which  provided cover  for 
holidays in Europe.  Mrs P declared  no medical conditions but her husband did which  were  
then covered by ERV.  When they renewed in January 2018, Mrs P said no amendments 
were necessary for Mr P but she wanted to declare some medical  conditions  of her own.  
These were  then covered by ERV.
In June 2018, Mrs P phoned ERV and told it that Mr P had been  diagnosed with cancer in 
February and had been through treatment and was now awaiting a scan  to see the effect his 
treatment had. In the meantime, Mr and Mrs P wanted to go on holiday before the scan  was 
scheduled to happen. 
ERV then said on the basis this scan was awaited, it wouldnt provide any cover for Mr P for 
this holiday to include cover for his other  conditions. Mrs P complained  but ERV wouldnt 
change its mind. So Mrs P brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think ERV 
had done anything wrong. Mrs P didnt agree so her complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
This was obviously a difficult time for Mr and Mrs P but ERV didnt do anything wrong in 
suspending cover for Mr P given his diagnosis of cancer and consequent treatment. This is 
because given the seriousness  of a diagnosis of cancer,  its reasonable for ERV to decide  it 
wanted to await  the outcome of the scan before making a decision as whether or not it 
wished to continue  to insure Mr P.
Insurers such as ERV are entitled  to decide which risks it wants to insure and which  risks it 
might not want to insure and thats  not something I would normally interfere with. Here, ERV 
has shown me that its underwriting criteria  decrees that for every person in Mr Ps situation,  
it suspends cover until its clear the medical condition has resolved. That also includes 
previously accepted medical conditions. This is its commercial decision and my role isnt to 
force insurers to provide cover in situations  where its clear  they simply do not accept that 
risk for anybody in Mr Ps situation. That also shows me that Mr P wasnt singled out or 
treated differently from anyone else in his unfortunate position.
As the investigator  explained had Mr and Mrs P already booked  their trip before the cancer 
diagnosis cover under the policy would have been provided. But this wasnt  the case here, 
as Mr and Mrs P were intending to book their holiday  and hadnt  done so. They rightly 
Ref: DRN29856022declared the new medical condition but sadly, no cover would then be provided until the 
outcome of the scan was known.
I also think ERV didnt  do anything wrong when Mrs P phoned  up about this. I think  it was 
reasonable for the advisers  to ensure they had all the right information and gave Mrs P the 
right information at the time.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2985602