K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd is responsible for poor service in connection 
with a home emergency insurance policy.
background
In October  2018 Mr B took out a home emergency insurance policy.  It was branded with the 
name of an insurance  intermediary. He agreed  to pay the yearly premium  of £115.00.
Bastion was the insurer responsible for dealing with claims. Where  I refer to Bastion or the 
insurer I include claims-handlers and others  for whose actions I hold Bastion responsible.
In April 2019 Mr B called the insurer  for help with his central  heating  boiler.  He complained  
that it declined  to send anyone to help. He has since got a private  engineer to replace the 
boiler and he says Bastion should pay the cost of £799.00.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think that 
Bastion acted in an unfair way towards  Mr B by not accepting his home emergency claim. 
The investigator didnt  think that Mr Bs claim met the policy  definition  of an emergency.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to Bastion  on 19 August 2019.  I summarise my findings:
I wasnt satisfied that the policy documents clearly  excluded  boiler  breakdowns not 
characterised by a risk to the home  or its occupants. So I found that the insurer  
treated Mr B unfairly by relying  on such an exclusion. I thought the insurer 
shouldve sent an engineer.
I had no reason to doubt Mr Bs statement that he ended  up paying for a new boiler 
(but I hadnt seen  any invoice). I inferred that Mr Bs engineer or engineers had said 
 and he had agreed  that it wasnt economic to repair  the old boiler.
I found it likely that the insurers  engineer would also have said the old boiler was 
beyond economic repair. For that reason  I didnt  think the insurer had to repair  or 
replace it. And I didnt  find it fair and reasonable to direct Bastion to reimburse Mr B 
for the cost of the new boiler.
But I found that the insurer treated Mr B unfairly.  And I didnt doubt that this added  to 
his distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time for him. So I was minded to 
direct the insurer to pay him compensation. I was minded that £100.00 would  be fair 
and reasonable.
Subject to any further information from Mr B or from Bastion, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold  this complaint in part. I intended to direct  Bastion Insurance Co. 
Ltd to pay Mr B £100.00 for distress  and inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN24841022In response to the provisional decision, Mr B has sent us a copy of an invoice for a new 
boiler.
Bastion disagrees  with the provisional  decision. It says, in summary, that:
It isnt clear that there  was a complete  failure  of the boiler as it was starting 
up again.
It doesnt cover an annual service. It didnt  issue the policy  schedule.  
No emergency was occurring and no immediate action was required.  So 
the claims decision was correct.
The intermediary had no claims authority. 
Bastion terminated  its relationship with the intermediary last year due to mis-
selling and mis-advising. Bastion and the intermediary are currently in a legal 
dispute in regards to this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that the intermediary issued the policy schedule. But I think it mustve done so under 
authority from the insurer  which must  take responsibility for its wording. The policy 
schedule said Mr B had Boiler & Heating  Cover with Annual Service . To me that strongly  
suggests that the insurer would (subject to some policy terms) cover a boiler  breakdown. 
The policy terms included the following:
What is Covered
This policy provides  cover  for emergency  events occurring at the home. This policy 
provides You with access to Our nationwide skilled contractor network and 
emergency helpline.  Valid claims cover  callout, labour and parts  (subject to claim 
limit) to alleviate the immediate emergency.
In the event of an emergency occurring in Your home. We will:
a. Advise you on what action to take to protect  yourself and your home;
b. Send one of our approved engineers, or arrange  an appointment for an approved  
engineer, to visit your home;
c. Organise and pay the cost of providing assistance, up to the claim limit, including  
VAT.
Indemnity Limit
Our liability per claim, under this section, will be limited to £500 after the deduction of 
any Excess,  if applicable .
The use of the word emergency is not capitalised or in bold type. So theres nothing to alert 
the policyholder  to the following definition:
 Emergency  means  a sudden and unexpected event, which is reported within 24 
hours of first noticing  the fault, and which if not dealt with, would, in the reasonable 
opinion of the helpline:
render the home  unsafe or insecure; or
damage or cause  further damage  to the home; or
cause personal  risk to you.
Ref: DRN24841023Under that definition,  an emergency must  be an event which  if not dealt with, would have 
one of the effects set out in those three  bullet  points (characterised by a risk to the home or 
its occupants).
The policy also contained  the following term:
Cover
This policy provides  covers for the following Emergencies, which occur at the Home.  
The amount  We will pay in respect of any one claim  shall not exceed the claim limit.

Primary Heating System  (if selected)
We will assist  You to restore  heating and/or hot water to Your Home following  an 
Emergency arising  from the sudden and unexpected complete failure of the primary 
heating system. We will only attend to one primary heating system failure during the 
period of cover in Your schedule. Before assistance can be provided You must 
provide Us with proof of servicing. Failure  to service Your primary heating system  will 
result in Your claim being denied.
Ive added the underling  to the key part of the wording. A strict  reading  of that wording  (and 
the definition of Emergency) is that if there is not only a boiler breakdown  but also an event 
characterised by a risk to the home  or its occupants then the insurer will assist the 
policyholder to restore heating and hot water.
But I think that most reasonable people would think  the underlined wording means that the 
sudden failure  of the central heating boiler is an Emergency to which  the insurer will 
respond by restoring heating and hot water.
The policy wording continues with the following:
We do not cover:

c) A boiler which is more than 15 years old;

e) Faults on boilers not serviced within the last 12 months;
..
k) Descaling  or any work arising from hard water scale deposits, including de-
sludging and the effects of aggressive  water  and clearing of airlocks; and 
replacement of water tanks or hot water  cylinders;

m) Replacement  or repairing any loss or damage if the boiler is, in the opinion  of the 
engineer, beyond economical  repair;

p) Reoccurring or intermittent faults, nor boiler/ system noise where the boiler  is still 
functioning;
That list of exclusions doesnt mention  boiler breakdowns not characterised  by a risk to the 
home or its occupants.
I can see that the insurer believed that  in order to be covered  there  must  be a complete  
failure of the heating  system and  in addition  one of the effects set out in the three  bullet 
points.
Ref: DRN24841024But  if thats what the policy wording means  then that would be a significant term. And  
in order for it to be fair for the insurer to rely on it  I would need to be satisfied that it was 
clear enough  in the policy documents. Im not satisfied  that the definition  does  exclude  boiler  
breakdowns not characterised by a risk to the home or its occupants. And Im not satisfied 
that the insurer made that at all clear.
When Mr B rang the insurer,  he already had a problem. Thats why he rang on 7 April 2019 
(a Sunday) at about midday. From  the recording of that call, Mr B said his boiler  wasnt  
working. He said that if he reset the boiler it worked  for a minute before turning off again.  To 
me, thats  not an intermittent fault- its a boiler  breakdown.
In answer to a question, he said the boiler was 14 years old and was last serviced a couple  
of weeks before his call. In answer to a question about harm Mr B said he couldnt have a 
bath and the house was cold.  He answered  No to a question about  damage.
Bastion said he didnt meet the criteria for it to send an engineer out. I think matters  were left 
on the basis that Mr B intended to ring the intermediary the next morning.
I think Mr B did ring the intermediary the next morning. He then spoke again  to the insurer. I 
think there was a moment when he wasnt clear  about whether he had first made his claim 
on the Sunday or on the Monday  morning. But Mr B quickly accepted that hed first rung the 
insurer on the Sunday. So I dont  think he gave any incorrect  information about that.
He said that the intermediary had that morning told him the policy covered his boiler as it had 
started to leak. But the insurer  said his claim  hadnt  been accepted.
In its final response letter  Bastion  said it rejected  the claim as it didnt meet the policy  
definition of an emergency. It added that the fault was intermittent.  And it said Mr B had 
given incorrect information  during  his second  call on Monday 8 April.
I havent found that the fault was intermittent or that Mr B gave incorrect  information on 8 
April.
Im not satisfied that the policy documents clearly  excluded  boiler  breakdowns not 
characterised by a risk to the home  or its occupants. So I find that the insurer treated Mr B 
unfairly by relying  on such an exclusion.  I think the insurer  shouldve  sent an engineer. 
Instead, Mr B rang again asking the insurer for help on Monday 8 April.  He then had to 
engage one or more  other engineers. I keep in mind  that Mr Bs old boiler was 14 years old 
and had broken  down.  I find it likely  that Mr B asked about getting it repaired.  
I have no reason to doubt his statement that he ended up paying for a new boiler. I have 
now seen an invoice  for £876.74. I infer that Mr Bs engineer or engineers had said  and he 
had agreed  that it wasnt  economic  to repair the old boiler.
I find it likely  that the insurers engineer  would  also have  said that the old boiler was beyond  
economic repair. For that reason I dont think the insurer had to repair or replace it. And I 
dont find it fair and reasonable to direct  the insurer to reimburse  Mr B for the cost of the new 
boiler.
Ref: DRN24841025But Ive found  that the insurer treated Mr B unfairly.  And I dont doubt  that this added to his 
distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time for him. So Im minded to direct  the 
insurer to pay him compensation. Im minded that £100.00 is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Bastion Insurance  Co. Ltd to pay Mr B £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2484102