K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background
Mr A took out car insurance  with Advantage through an insurance broker.  The broker,  a 
separate business, administered the policy. The broker  was the point  of contact for Mr A and 
they dealt with a number  of things on behalf  of Advantage.
In early July 2018,  Mr A contacted the broker to report that his car had been damaged in 
June while  it was parked and unattended. He said another  car struck it and the other  driver 
left a note accepting they had caused the damage. The other  driver also left their contact 
telephone number.
The broker  referred  Mr A to a claims management company (CMC  also referred  to as a 
credit hire company) to assist with the claim because it appeared that the other driver 
admitted being  at fault for the damage. But the CMC later referred Mr A to Advantage for 
them to deal with his claim.
Mr A wasnt  happy with the service he received from Advantage or the CMC,  in particular he 
felt that Advantage didnt do enough to get an admission of liability  from the other driver. 
Advantage didnt  uphold  Mr As complaint. They said they did make  efforts  to get an 
admission of liability from the other drivers  insurer.
Mr A didn't  think that was reasonable so he brought his complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. She felt that Advantage hadnt done  anything wrong. As Mr A didnt 
agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr A, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
In his complaint,  Mr A has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Advantage have dealt with Mr A in a fair and reasonable way.
Mr A questioned why our service registered  the respondent of his complaint as Advantage. 
All of Mr As dealings since  buying  his policy had been with the broker that administered it. 
And the policy documents were branded  in the brokers name. That practice is quite normal 
in the motor insurance industry. But I can understand  why Mr A might have believed the 
broker was the insurer. But while brokers  may sell and help to administer policies, they don't 
provide the actual cover, which is the responsibility of the policys underwriter,  which in this 
case is Advantage. And as Mr As complaint is to do with his claim for damage to his car, the 
correct respondent  is the insurer, Advantage. Thats because  insurers  are responsible for 
issues relating to claims and complaints arising  from them.
Ref: DRN28751502To help understand Advantages actions in relation to Mr As claim its important to 
understand certain standard operating practices  within the car insurance industry. When a 
policyholder has reason  to claim on their policy because their car has been  damaged,  often 
their first port of call is to claim through their own insurer.  And most insurance policies, like 
Mr As policy, require  the policyholder to pay an excess when they make a claim. The 
excess is effectively the first portion of the total cost of a claim. To explain,  Ill use an 
illustration. Mr As total excess (a combination of compulsory and voluntary excess)  under  
his policy  was £400. So, if Mr A made a claim for damage on his policy and it cost £1,000 to 
repair that damage, Mr A would have to pay the first £400 and Advantage would pay the 
remaining £600.
Continuing on the same  illustration, if the damage  to Mr As car was the fault of the other  
driver and the other driver had valid insurance,  then Advantage would ask the other insurer  
(not the other driver) to pay the total cost of repairing Mr As car. And if the other insurer 
refused to pay, and Advantage felt there was sufficient evidence  (or reasonable prospects of 
success) to take the other  insurer to court  to recover the cost of repair, then its possible 
Advantage would  have  done that. But for Advantage to be able to take legal action against 
the other insurer, they (Advantage) would  first have to have a loss (also referred to as an 
outlay). The loss in this example would be the £600 the insurer paid to repair the car. If an 
insurer doesnt have  an outlay to recover, they cant take action against the other insurer.
In Mr As case, because  the other  driver  left a note accepting they damaged  his car, the 
broker must have thought  the other driver  (through their insurer)  would admit liability. In such  
circumstances its common practice for brokers to refer a policyholder to a CMC. But we 
expect a broker to explain to the customer whats involved  and to get their agreement first. A 
CMC is completely separate to the insurer therefore the insurer  isnt responsible for the 
CMCs actions. There are a number of benefits  for a policyholder if their claim is dealt with 
by a CMC. A CMC will contact the other driver  or their insurer  to get an admission of liability;  
once they have an admission of liability  the CMC will arrange for the repairs  to be carried  
out; the policyholder will not have to pay an excess as its not a claim under their policy; the 
CMC will provide a courtesy car; and they will recover their costs  from the other drivers 
insurer. 
Mr A wasnt  happy with the service he got from the CMC. I must make it clear  that in this 
complaint I am only looking at the actions of Advantage and not the CMC. So, I will not 
comment any further on the service of the CMC. Mr A said that in referring  him to the CMC, 
the broker failed  to act with reasonable care and skill. As the broker  is a separate business 
any complaint about their actions would have to be considered in a separate  complaint. So, I 
wont be commenting about Mr As referral  to the CMC in this decision other than to explain 
what happened. 
I understand that the CMC  was unable to get an admission  of liability from the other driver or 
their insurer.  As a result, the CMC couldnt progress  the claim and Mr A was referred to 
Advantage to pursue the claim through his own policy. 
Mr A is unhappy that Advantage  didnt  try to locate  the other driver. But as the other  driver  
was insured, Advantage made contact with their insurer. That was the correct thing to do as 
the insurer is ultimately responsible for any claim against  their policyholders  policy and any 
claim would have to be made to the other insurer. But despite Advantage asking the other 
insurer for an admission of liability, the other  insurer said they were  unable to give that 
admission because they had no contact with their policyholder, the other driver. 
Ref: DRN28751503Ordinarily the next step would have been for Advantage to ask the other insurer to pay for 
the damage to Mr As car otherwise legal action  would be taken.  But Advantage couldnt do 
that because they had no outlay (or loss)  to claim from the other insurer. Thats  because  
Mr A didnt agree to claim  on his policy as he wasnt willing  to pay the excess. But even if he 
was willing, I understand the cost of repairing his damage was below the £400 excess. So 
even if Mr A claimed on his policy and Advantage arranged to have the repair done, because 
the cost of repair was below  the excess Mr A would  have paid the total cost himself. That 
would have meant Advantage wouldnt have paid anything, so they wouldnt have had an 
outlay to recover. And for the reasons Ive already explained, without an outlay Advantage 
couldnt pursue  the other insurer.  Given Advantage made  attempts to get an admission of 
liability from the other insurer, I think they acted reasonably. And because they didnt have 
an outlay, I dont think they could have pursued  the other insurer  through the courts.  I 
sympathise with Mr A for the situation  he found himself  in. But I dont feel Advantage have 
been unreasonable.
Mr A said his subsequent  insurance premiums have gone up. Advantage recorded  this 
incident on a shared  insurance database as notification only. I should explain that when a 
policyholder is involved  in an accident or incident,  insurers have an obligation to record that 
on a shared insurance database which other insurers have access to. An incident can be 
recorded as a fault claim, non-fault claim or, as happened in Mr As case, notification 
only. Notification only is generally  regarded as the least serious of the three, but some 
insurers do take that into consideration when pricing  their premiums. So its possible that 
having a notification only incident on his record  may lead to higher future  premiums  for Mr A. 
But as Advantage are under an obligation  to accurately record  incidents relating to their 
policyholders, I dont think theyve acted unreasonably by making that record.
Finally, if Mr A still wants to pursue a complaint about the circumstances  surrounding the 
referral of his claim to the CMC, he should  let us know so we can look into that against the 
broker. I can see that Mr A complained about the referral to the CMC to the broker and to 
our service.  So, other than confirming  to us whether or not he wants  us to look into it, he 
wont have to do anything  else.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.   
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2875150