K821x#15Complaint
Mr B has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has discriminated against  him and so
treated him unfairly due to disabilities.
Background
Mr B has a travel insurance policy  with his packaged  bank account, which is provided by
UKI. He has asthma, which hed declared  to UKI. And hed been provided with cover  for it
without any additional  premium. He then had he had a single  incident  of non-melanoma  
skin cancer  (NMSC) , which was successfully treated.  And he was eventually told it was 
cleared and no follow up was necessary. He called UKI to declare this and was told he had 
to pay extra  if he wanted cover for it. He decided not to have  the cover  and was then given 
the impression  hed still have to pay extra if he wanted cover for his asthma  to continue,  
even without cover for skin cancer.  He complained  to UKI via his bank. UKI - by its own 
admission - didnt handle Mr Bs complaint very well and paid him £30 in compensation for 
this. It then sent an incorrectly made out cheque, which Mr B sent back. And hes never 
heard back  on this. But UKI didnt accept it had discriminated against Mr B or treated him 
unfairly for any other  reason.
Mr B complained to us and one our investigators  considered his complaint.  He didnt think
UKI had done  anything  wrong in charging the additional premium and he wrote  to Mr B
explaining why he thought  this. Mr B didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an
ombudsmans decision.
I reviewed the complaint  and discussed it with Mr B. And I also asked UKI to provide some
further information. I then suggested UKI hadnt provided sufficient information to justify the
way it had treated  Mr B. I asked it to pay £100 in compensation  for the distress  and
inconvenience this had caused Mr B or provide further evidence to justify  what  it had done.
I explained this to Mr B who came  back and said he felt he should  get more  in compensation
to reflect  the extra money hed had to pay for travel insurance. He also said he felt I should
consider making  UKI provide him with the same  cover as he had before for his asthma
without charging  him extra for it.
UKI then provided some further  information.  In this, it said that people whove had skin 
cancer are more likely  to get other  forms of cancer  and so present a higher risk, irrespective 
of what other  conditions they have. It also argued  that someone who has two medical  
conditions is more likely to claim as a result of a third condition.  UKI also explained  how Mr B 
wasnt charged extra for his asthma  originally due a commercial decision not to charge 
people who have certain conditions, of which asthma is one, even though it thinks they still 
present a higher risk. It also explained  that Mr B was being charged the additional premium 
to cover both his medical conditions, not just asthma. This is on the basis it wouldnt want  to 
cover one condition,  but not the other. And it still believed  it had treated Mr B fairly.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 November 2019  in which I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.  I firstly  said that it doesnt  sound like Mr Bs asthma is a disability. 
But, in any event, I didnt  think  UKI had treated Mr B unfairly  in charging him extra for this and 
the fact hed had skin cancer, on the basis he clearly presented  a greater  risk. I didnt feel it 
was necessary for me consider whether the extra  amount  was appropriate, bearing in mind 
Mr B was covered under a basic policy  provided as part of a packaged  bank account.
Ref: DRN25608132After receiving the provisional decision,  UKI said it didnt have any further comments to
make. Mr B has responded in great  detail to my provisional decision and to some further
information I provided to him from UKI, which it provided in response  to some points Mr B
had made.  Ive set out what I consider to be his main points below.
UKIs agent  didnt  say he had to pay £100  (I will refer to £100 for ease, although it was 
just over this) to cover additional health risks, it said he had to pay £100 if he still wanted 
cover for his asthma.
His asthma is a disability as defined  by the Equality  Act and hes always  said this. The 
Financial Ombudsman  Service must  make  decisions in accordance  with the Equality Act.
UKI didnt pay him £30 in compensation, as it sent a cheque made out in the wrong 
name, which it never reissued.
He is a lower risk than the general population  (and probably most people  insured under 
the packaged bank account policy he is insured  under), despite his asthma. This is 
because of several other health and lifestyle factors. And UKI has imposed a penalty 
without establishing  he represents an increased  risk.
There is no compelling evidence that a person  who declares two medical conditions is more  
likely to have a third one. And - in any event - the £100  UKI wanted  to charge was for his 
asthma, not for the extra risk he presented  as a result of declaring two medical conditions.
The Equality Act means UKI must  not discriminate against him specifically. This does 
not mean  UKI cant  charge  him a different premium  as a result of his disabilities, but it 
does mean it must be justified. And it is for UKI to prove  its charge is justified. 
UKI hasnt justified  treating him differently by providing relevant information  from a 
reliable source - for example evidence-based statistics. And this means  it must not 
charge him a higher  premium. 
The system  UKI uses to estimate risks and work  out additional  premiums,  which  is an 
established health insurance rating tool, does not change its obligation to show  its 
discriminatory action against  him is justified. And - although  it has stated which  system it 
uses, it hasnt shown that according to this system he presents a higher risk or that the 
additional premium  it wanted to charge him is proportionate.
If I dont know the base premium  for the policy (or different parts of it), I cant  know  
whether the additional £100  UKI wanted to charge Mr B is proportionate to the additional 
risk he represents.
UKI also provided a great deal more evidence,  which I have not detailed here, but I  provided 
my thoughts on it and what  Mr B has said in my provisional dated 16 April 2020. In the 
findings section  of my provisional decision I said the following:
Ref: DRN25608133The Equality  Act 2010  sets out that a person  has a disability  if they have  a physical  or 
mental  impairment  and the impairment  has a substantial  long-term  adverse  effect  on 
their ability  to carry  out normal  day to day activities.  And Schedule  1 of the Act provides  
clarification  on what  long-term  means  and what  is meant  by adverse  effect.  And from 
this, I'm now satisfied  Mr B's asthma  is a disability.  This is because  he has explained  
how it would  have  an adverse  effect  on his normal  day to day activities  without  the 
medication  he has. And the Act also makes  it clear  that cancer  is a disability.
The Act also makes  it clear  that a service  provider  must  not discriminate  against  a 
person  as to the terms  on which  it provides  the service  to someone.  But there  is an 
exception  for insurance  in Schedule  3, provided  it is done  by reference  to information  
that is both relevant  to the assessment  of the risk to be insured  and from a source  on 
which  it is reasonable  to rely. And provided  it is reasonable  to do it. The Act also 
makes  it clear  that if there  are facts,  which  in the absence  of any other  explanation,  
show  that a service  provider  has discriminated,  the service  provider  must  show  it has 
not contravened  the Act.
It's not my role to say whether  UKI has acted  unlawfully  or not - that's  a matter  for 
the Courts.  My role is to decide  what's  fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances.  
In order  to decide  that, however,  I have  to take a number  of things  into account  
including  relevant  law and what  I consider  to have  been  good  industry  practice  at 
the time.  So, although  it's for the Courts  to say whether  or not UKI has breached  the 
Equality  Act 2010,  I'm required  to take the Equality  Act 2010  into account  when  
deciding  what's  fair and reasonable.  And I've done  that.
I don't  think  I need  to make  a finding  on whether  a court  would  be likely  to 
conclude  the exception  in Schedule  3 of the Equality  Act, relating  to the terms  on 
which  an insurer  offers  insurance  to a customer,  applies  in this particular  case.  
Because  - even  if it does,  and regardless  of the Equality  Act 2010,  I'm not now 
currently  satisfied  UKI has treated  Mr B fairly  based  on the evidence  available.  And 
I've provisionally  decided  what  the fair and reasonable  outcome  to Mr B's 
complaint  is in light of that.
Mr B has argued  that the £100  that UKI quoted  him was just to cover  his asthma,  as 
he'd agreed  to self-decline  cover  for skin cancer.  And I can see from his 
contemporaneous  notes  of his call and the fact that UKI has never  suggested  
otherwise  to him, why he thought  this was what  the £100  was for. But - I think  the 
evidence  I've seen  from UKI overwhelmingly  supports  its contention  that the £100  was 
to cover  Mr B for both asthma  and cancer.  In fact it was only willing  to provide  cover  
for both conditions,  not just one of them.  So, I'm satisfied  this is what  the £100  was for, 
although,  I appreciate  Mr B doesn't  agree  on this point.
Mr B's key concern  is that UKI has not provided  any compelling  evidence  to show  
that the additional  £100  is based  on information  that is relevant  to the assessment  of 
the risk to be insured  in his case  and on which  it is reasonable  to rely.
Ref: DRN25608134UKI has told us the extra  £100  is produced  by using  a risk assessment  and premium  
calculation  mechanism  used  by many  insurers  in the UK travel  insurance  industry.  
And it thinks  this is "relevant  to the assessment  of the risk to be insured  and from a 
source  on which  it is reasonable  to rely".  Mr B has suggested  it did not rely on the 
premium  calculation  mechanism,  but rather  other  sources  it found  on the internet.  But 
I don't  agree  that is the case.  I'm satisfied  it relied  on the mechanism  to get the 
additional  premium  it wanted  to charge  Mr B. And it just quoted  other  sources  to try 
and prove  certain  risk factors  while  engaging  with me on this complaint.
However,  despite  UKI showing  Mr B represented  a different  risk to the one he 
presented  before,  once  he'd declared  he'd had skin cancer  as well as asthma.  And,  
despite  showing  its premium  calculation  mechanism  produced  an additional  premium  
of £100  because  of this, it hasn't  provided  anything  that persuades  me that the 
additional  of £100  is proportionate  to or actually  reflects  the additional  risk Mr B 
presented,  ie that it was justified.
UKI has provided  quotes  for travel  insurance  for Mr B at higher  amounts.  But Mr B has 
provided  evidence  of a family  policy  with a major  travel  insurer  covering  both these  
conditions  at a premium  of just over £100.  And I'm satisfied  this policy  offered  like for like 
cover.  So I don't  find UKl's  suggestion  he'd would  have  had to pay significantly  more  for 
cover  with other  providers  if he'd provided  more  information  about  his health  persuasive.
I appreciate  why UKl can't  or won't  provide  me with actuarial  calculations  or tell me what  
the base  premium  for Mr B's travel  insurance  policy  through  his bank  account  is. But I know  
Mr B pays  £156  in total for various  benefits  with the account,  including  travel  insurance  and 
European  Roadside  Assistance  cover.  So, I can't  imagine  the premium  for his travel  
insurance  policy  is more  than half of the £156  he pays  for the account.  This means  it does  
seem  UKI wanted  to charge  Mr B more  than double  the annual  premium  for a policy  
covering  his whole  family  just to provide  cover  for two declared  medical  conditions.
I appreciate  Mr B may well have  presented  a higher  risk of making  a claim  for certain  
things,  as a result  of having  the two medical  conditions  he declared.  But I take his 
point  that he may have  presented  a much  lower  risk than other  people  insured  under  
the same  policy  because  of his lifestyle  choices  and general  physical  condition.  And,  
despite  referring  to its underwriting  system  and some  papers  showing  people  that 
have  had skin cancer  are more  likely  to get it again  and more  likely  to get other  forms  
of cancer,  UKl hasn't  provided  any evidence  at all that shows  me how the extra  
premium  it wanted  to charge  Mr B was calculated  directly  to reflect  the additional  risk 
he presented  as a result  of the two medical  conditions  he'd declared.
UKI has also suggested  people  who have  declared  medical  conditions  are more  likely  
to claim  and referred  to some  statistics  that show  this. But, it hasn't  provided  any 
evidence  specific  to Mr B's circumstances  to show  how this is reflected  in the extra  
premium  it wanted  to charge  him.
So, overall  I don't  think  UKl has provided  sufficient  evidence  to show  the additional  
£100  it wanted  to charge  Mr B was justified.  I appreciate  UKI may think  this decision  
has wider  implications  and that it may not be able to provide  the level  of detail  
necessary  to justify  the premium  it wanted  to charge.  But I have  to base  my decision  
on the evidence  available.
Ref: DRN25608135And I just don't  think  UKI has justified  the amount  it wanted  to charge  Mr B as an 
individual  in the circumstances  and so hasn't  treated  him fairly.  This means  that I think  
as part of the fair and reasonable  resolution  to his complaint,  UKI needs  to do 
something  to put this right.
I also agree  UKI provided  Mr B with further  poor service,  by sending  him an incorrectly  
made  out cheque  and then ignoring  him when  he returned  it.
What  UKI should  have  to do to put things  right in this sort of case  is difficult,  but I 
think  the best way to achieve  this now is for UKI to compensate  Mr B for the financial  
loss he has suffered  because  of its actions.  And also to award  him compensation  for 
the distress  and inconvenience  he has experienced.
But, I don't  think  it is appropriate  for me to direct  UKI to provide  Mr B with his package  
bank  account  policy,  including  cover  for his two medical  conditions  without  an 
additional  charge  in future.  This is because,  I am not an underwriter  and I don't  know  
exactly  what  risk Mr B does  present  due to having  these  conditions.  And it is not my 
role to tell an insurer  what  risks  to accept  and at what  price.
As I've already  said Mr B has had to buy another  family  policy  to make  sure he is 
covered  for his two conditions.  And this cost him £104.28  in February  2019  and no 
doubt  cost him a similar  amount  this year when  he renewed  it. So, I think  UKI should  
reimburse  Mr B the cost of both these  policies.  And it would  be helpful  if Mr B could  let 
me know  how much  it cost to renew  the policy  this year,  so I can make  an award  
reflecting  the cost of both policies  in my final decision.  I appreciate  if Mr B had wanted  
cover  under  his UKI policy  for his two medical  conditions  he would  have  paid 
something  above  the standard  price.  But, as UKI hasn't  been  able to demonstrate  the 
extra  premium  it wanted  to charge  reflected  the additional  risk Mr B represented,  I 
think  it is a fair and reasonable  resolution  to award  him the full cost of the alternative  
policies  he bought.
I also think  this whole  episode  and the poor service  provided  by UKI in dealing  with 
Mr B's complaint  has caused  him a great  deal of unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience.  While  I appreciate  this case  has involved  a great  deal of effort  on 
Mr B's part, this is sometimes  part of bringing  this sort of complaint  on what  someone  
considers  to be an important  principle.
So, overall,  I think  the distress  and inconvenience  Mr B has experienced  as a result  of the 
way he was treated  by UKI and the service  it provided  warrants  £100  in compensation.
I gave  both parties  until 16 May to respond  to my provisional  decision.  
UKI has responded  to say it doesnt  agree  with it. Its pointed  out the alternative  
policy  Mr B has bought  is for Europe  only,  whereas  his cover  with UKI is worldwide  
and includes  other  extra  cover,  such  as winter  sports.  And it doesnt  think  Ive taken  
into account  the fundamental  differences  in under  the two policies.  
Ref: DRN25608136UKI has also explained  that it cant  rate packaged  bank  account  policy  the same  way 
as a stand-alone  policy.  And the fact a customer  has medical  conditions  to declare  
means  they are using  the travel  insurance  under  the account  and that automatically  
makes  them  a higher  risk than many  of their peers.  And customers  with medical  
conditions  are being  subsidised  with customers  who do not have  them.  It has said 
the Financial  Ombudsman  Service  is not a regulator  and accepts  different  insurers  
have  different  views  of risk and what  premiums  to charge.  
UKI has also explained  that it can only differentiate  on the declaration  of actual  
declared  diagnosed  medical  conditions.  And that there  has to be an element  of 
aggregation  as travel  insurance  is a high volume,  low premium  product  and cannot  
be fully underwritten  like a health  insurance  product.  And it feels  it treats  customers  
the same  way as other  providers  by linking  the cost of an upgrade  to cover  pre-
existing  medical  conditions  to the additional  risk of a claim  based  on the risk 
assessment  system  it uses.
UKI concluded  by saying  that if Im still not persuaded  the additional  premium  it 
wanted  to charge  Mr B was justified,  it would  settle.  This means  it will agree  to the 
redress  I suggested  in my provisional  decision.   
Mr B replied  to my provisional  decision.  He welcomed  it and suggested  some  small  
changes  to the wording  of my final decision.  He suggested  I should  refer  to the fact 
he had a single  incident  of non-melanoma  skin cancer  (NMSC)  as opposed  to just 
skin cancer.  He thinks  this change  is important  because  there  are huge  differences  
in risks  associated  with melanoma  compared  with non-melanoma  skin cancers.  And 
he feels  anyone  reading  my final decision  should  see that this case  is about  these  
low risk cancers.  Hes also suggested  I refer  to the fact it was a NMSC  elsewhere  as 
opposed  to just referring  to skin cancer.  
Mr B has also said I should  make  it clear  that his suggestion  that I consider  making  
UKI provide  him with the same  cover  as before  his asthma  without  charging  for it, 
was on the grounds  that UKI wouldnt  face any additional  financial  risk with regards  
to the asthma,  following  the disclosure  of the fact hed had NMSC.  Mr B has also 
mentioned  the Equality  Act makes  it clear  cancer  is automatically  a disability.  
Mr B accepts  my finding  that UKI quoted  him £100  to cover  both his medical  
conditions,  but thinks  I should  say that his record  of the conversation  suggests  the 
call handler  failed  to communicate  properly  in the terms  of and reason  for the 
additional  premium  when  he disclosed  his new condition.  
Mr B has pointed  out that under  his packaged  bank  account  he gets UK and 
European  Breakdown  and Recovery,  whereas  I have  only referred  to European  
Roadside  Assistance.
Mr B has told me that the cost of his family  travel  insurance  policy  with another  
insurer  which  he renewed  in February  was £120.90.
Ref: DRN25608137my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the responses to my 
provisional decision of 16 April, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. Having  done so, I still think Mr Bs complaint  should  be upheld.  
First of all, I should say that I have noted what Mr B has said in response to my provisional 
decision and accept  his point that it is important  to be more specific on the type of skin 
cancer he had. And I also think the other points hes made  are valid as well, although as he 
can see, Ive simply copied the provisional findings into the body of this final decision.  I also 
accept his notes  do suggest the adviser  he spoke to when he declared his medical 
conditions didnt make  it clear enough what the £100 additional premium was for. 
Ive also considered everything  UKI has said. And I acknowledge the alternative  policy  
provides narrower  cover  than Mr Bs policy with UKI, but that has no real bearing on whether  
I think UKI has justified what it wanted to charge  Mr B to cover  his two health conditions. 
This is because I think the extra amount UKI wanted to charge against  what Mr B was likely 
to be paying for his policy through  his bank account is what is really significant.  
With regards to UKIs comments on my provisional  finding that I dont think its justified the 
additional premium  it wanted to charge Mr B. I think it is important to reiterate the point I 
made in my provisional  decision that I think Mr B was paying at most £80 for all the cover  
under his annual travel  insurance policy with UKI. And UKI wanted  to charge him more  than 
this amount just to cover him for two additional health conditions,  which  on the face of it dont  
seem to warrant such a significant  additional premium.  And I still dont think  UKI has justified 
this additional  premium. I appreciate that UKI used an approach that means  it doesnt  really 
consider the overall risk Mr B presents by taking into account - not just the medical 
conditions he declared - but his overall state  of health. This is UKIs  choice  and I can of 
course understand it, but it is why in this particular case, I dont think it has justified the extra  
amount it wanted  to charge Mr B. 
UKI is of course right that The Financial  Ombudsman Service is not a regulator, but, as an 
ombudsman, I have  to decide what is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. And while I appreciate why UKI only differentiates on declared medical 
conditions, it does  mean Im not persuaded it has treated Mr B fairly in his particular situation 
on the basis it hasnt  justified the extra premium  it wanted to charge him.
I am pleased  that, despite not agreeing with my provisional decision,  UKI has agreed  to pay 
the redress I suggested in it. Ive checked the schedules Mr B has provided  for the 
alternative policy he purchased. And Im satisfied he paid £104.28  in 2019 and £120.90 for it 
in 2020. And I think these  figures are the ones I should use when deciding the amount to 
award as the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I should also add that I 
appreciate Mr B could  have just paid the additional premium to UKI and got even wider  
cover at a lower cost to him overall, but I can understand  why he didnt think  this was 
appropriate. Especially, as he clearly  thought the extra £100 UKI wanted  to charge was only 
to cover one of his declared medical  conditions.  This means I still think  Mr B should receive 
a total of £225.18 to reimburse  the extra he paid for the alternative polices he bought  as part 
of the fair and reasonable outcome  to this complaint. 
It also remains my view that Mr B should receive  an additional £100 for distress  and 
inconvenience for the reasons explained in my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN25608138my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and 
UKI must do the following:
Pay Mr B £225.12 to reimburse  him the cost of the two alternative  policies he bought. 
Pay Mr B £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2560813