K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that W.W. & J. McClure  (McClure) mis-sold  him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I set out the full circumstances to this complaint in my provisional decision which I issued in 
November 2019.  I invited both parties  to comment and provide any further information or 
representations they wished me to consider before 12 December 2019. That provisional 
decision is attached  here and forms part of my final decision.
McClure accepted my findings. Mr M didnt  respond, although  his representative confirmed  
that they had nothing  further to add on his behalf.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party had any substantive comments to make, I dont see a reason to alter my 
provisional decision. I dont think Mr M lost out as a result  of anything McClure did wrong, so 
I dont think McClure needs to pay any compensation.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint, so it follows that W.W. & J. McClure doesnt  have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Provisional decision
background
Mr M took out a mortgage  through  McClure  in 2007. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy which 
would have covered his mortgage repayment for up to 12 months  at a time if he couldnt work due to 
an accident, sickness  or unemployment. It also provided  an additional  cash sum to help with other 
expenses.
Mr M says he wasnt  told anything  about the policy. He says it must have been added automatically. 
He says he wouldnt have  bought  it if hed been told about it.
The adjudicator thought that Mr Ms complaint  should be upheld. McClure disagrees, so Mr Ms 
complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN23951142Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when deciding this case. Having done so, my provisional decision is that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr M says that he thinks  the policy  was added automatically without his knowledge. McClure says it 
would have been discussed  as part of a holistic review  of his demands and needs when committing to 
the mortgage. Neither party  has retained the original documents for the sale,  but this isnt unusual so 
long after the event. 
I asked McClure if it could provide me with sample copies  of the documents it used at the time.  
McClure provided me with a sample copy of a letter it sent to clients after it had met them  which 
detailed what had been discussed and any recommendations.  I think  Mr M likely  received a letter like 
this. I can see from this that PPI would have been one of the products  discussed and it would have 
been noted whether he had accepted the recommendation.  If no recommendation was made, this 
would have been noted too. I think the fact it was a recommendation would  have made it clear  it was 
optional.
In addition, Mr M would have  had to complete a PPI application form to send to the insurer. This 
would have included  a direct  debit  mandate. The policy  stood alone  from the mortgage  the 
premiums were taken separately from the mortgage repayments and directly by the insurer. The 
policy couldnt  have  been set up without  this form and the mandate. And if Mr M hadnt completed this 
form and agreed to the PPI I think hed have queried  the direct debit payments when he saw them.
So, on balance,  and with the limited information I have,  I think its more likely that the PPI wasnt 
added automatically. I think Mr M bought the PPI knowing he had a choice about it. 
Because I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint on this basis,  Ive gone on to look at the rest of the sale 
to see if theres any other way it was mis-sold  to Mr M.
McClure gave  Mr M a personal recommendation  to buy the policy, so it had a duty of care to take 
steps to make sure it was right for him. Looking  at Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale I think that 
it was suitable. 
There isnt a copy  of the policy document from the time of sale,  although  the insurer  has supplied one 
from some time after the sale. It reflects the conditions this service has seen for other PPI policies on 
sale around 2007, so I think its likely Mr Ms policy  was very similar, if not the same. 
Looking at the conditions,  I can see that Mr M was eligible for the policy. He wasnt affected by any of 
the usual exclusions,  such as those relating to existing  medical conditions  or self-employment. 
Mr M would have received some sick pay from his employer. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this and potentially  for considerably longer.  And it would have paid an additional  sum to 
help with other  uninsured expenses too.
Mr M hasnt said what  his redundancy  pay would have been. I think  its likely  he would  have received  
statutory redundancy pay, which wouldnt have been more than a couple of months  pay. Again, the 
PPI would  have paid out in addition to this and for up to a year at a time. As Mr M didnt  have any 
other means to make his mortgage repayments if he was out of work, and he was solely  responsible 
for the mortgage, I think the PPI offered a useful benefit if he was out of work.
The policy was a regular  premium policy which  could  have been amended or cancelled without 
financial penalty at any time. 
As well as checking that the policy was right for Mr M, McClure had a duty to ensure  he had all the 
information he needed  to make his decision. Its possible  that Mr M didnt receive all this information 
(although I cant know with any certainty). But I dont think if Mr M had received complete information  
Ref: DRN23951143about the policy it would  have changed his mind about buying  it because  it was suitable for him as 
Ive already described. 
Its possible that the cost of the PPI wasnt set out clearly at the point of sale.  But it was comparable  
to other similar policies  on the market around the same time and I havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest it was unaffordable  for Mr M. So I dont  think  if Mr M had clear  cost information it would have 
put him off buying the policy. 
So, on balance,  I dont think Mr M lost out as a result of anything McClure might have done wrong.
my provisional  decision
Im provisionally  intending  to not uphold  this complaint.  However, I will consider  any further 
representations either party wishes to make  by 12 December 2019  before making  my final decision.
Ref: DRN2395114