K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained about IGO4 Limited. He isnt happy about  the way it cancelled his car 
insurance policy.
background
Mr E took out his car insurance policy through IGO4 in February  2018,  his insurer was Aviva. 
IGO4 communicated  with Mr E through March and April and agreed a small reduction in 
premium. This was because Mr Es car had a black box fitted  and his driving  score  was 
good, so he got a reduction.
IGO4 then contacted  Mr E to say that it wasnt getting any data from his black box and said 
that it would  cancel his policy if the position  didnt change. It only gave him seven  days  
notice and went on to cancel his policy.
Mr Es mother complained to IGO4  as Mr E was unwell at the time of contact. She provided  
medical evidence  in support of this and IGO4 went onto refund its cancellation charges, the 
cost of fitting the black box and only charged for time on cover as a gesture of goodwill. It 
asked the insurer  to remove any details of the cancellation but it wouldnt. As Mr E remained 
unhappy she complained to this service.   
Our adjudicator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He was of the view that 
IGO4 had acted reasonably in only charging for time on cover once it realised why Mr E 
hadnt responded.
As Mr E didnt agree  the matter has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding the 
complaint as I think that IGO4 has acted reasonably. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Es frustration here.  He was unwell  and didnt check  his email  which  
was understandable.  But IGO4 hasnt done  anything  wrong  either. It just followed its 
cancellation procedure  which is outlined in Mr Es policy documentation when the data from 
the black box wasnt being pulled through. 
As soon  as it realised  the reasons why Mr E hadnt  responded  it looked to act responsibly in 
refunding the various charges and cancellation fees which meant that Mr E only paid for time 
on cover  which seems  fair. It also asked Aviva  to remove  any record of the cancellation  from 
any internal and external records but it wouldnt. 
I can understand why this is important to Mr E and its a shame  that Aviva didnt act on 
IGO4s request. But that isnt IGO4s fault. It is the insurer  that records  details of the 
cancellation and I understand  that a separate complaint has now been  set up about  this.
So, although  Mr E has explained to IGO4  why he didnt respond to its request for information 
and cancellation  notice it didnt act unreasonably. I say this as it followed its cancellation 
process and has removed all charges and only charged for time on cover which seems fair.
Ref: DRN24696572my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2469657