K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality. He has since paid for repairs  and wants 
the cost of these  refunded.
Background
Mr C entered into a conditional sale agreement  in April 2018 to acquire a used vehicle. The 
vehicle experienced an issue with the turbo that caused issues  with the engine.  He says he 
reported the issue to the garage but it was reluctant to help him. He says he had a warranty 
and the vehicle was investigated  but repairs werent  undertaken  at that time as the warranty 
may not have covered the cost. Mr C complained to Close Brothers in January 2019,  and it 
said it needed further evidence from an independent  inspection. Mr C decided to bring his 
complaint to this service  and has since paid for the repairs.
Mr C says the issue arose after he had driven  around 5,000 miles and the vehicle wasnt due 
a service.
Close Brothers says that Mr C raised  his complaint and it asked for further evidence to be 
provided through an independent inspection. It says Mr C said he had contacted the 
inspection company and the evidence couldnt be provided. Close  Brothers says that it 
needed evidence  to show the fault was present at the point of supply.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that Mr C complained to Close 
Brothers nine months after he had acquired  the vehicle and that it was reasonable for Close 
Brothers to ask for an independent inspection  report to confirm any fault was present from 
the point of supply. As the vehicle  has been  repaired she noted an inspection report was no 
longer an option.
Our adjudicator contacted the repairing garage  which confirmed the issue was a result of 
turbo failure  and said that this can happen suddenly without  warning  and that the issue is 
more likely to arise  on a vehicle with a substantial  mileage. She said that given the 
information available she was unable to confirm there was a fault present at the point of 
supply.
Mr C did not agree with our adjudicators  view and so this complaint has been passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to issue a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C acquired  a used vehicle through a conditional  sale agreement  with Close  Brothers. 
Under the regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015,  Close  Brothers can be 
held liable  if the vehicle want of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality 
takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the vehicle. In this case  the 
vehicle was around 5 years old and had a mileage  of over 94,000 at acquisition.
Mr C experienced issues  with the vehicle which he reported to Close  Brothers in January 
2019. Given that nine months had passed from when the vehicle was acquired and when the 
Ref: DRN28165612issues were reported  I find it reasonable that Close Brothers asked  for further  information  to 
show that any faults were  present or developing at the point of supply. Mr C didnt provide 
this and has since had the vehicle repaired. 
Given repairs have taken  place an inspection report is no longer a reasonable request and 
so I have looked at the other  information  provided to see if I am satisfied that the issue  
experienced with Mr Cs vehicle was more  likely  than not present  at the point  of supply. 
The issue  was identified  in an inspection  report as being turbo failure which  then resulted in 
damage to the engine.  This was then confirmed by the repairing garage. Mr C had been able 
to drive the vehicle around 5,000 miles before this happened. The repairing garage  said that 
this issue could occur without warning and was likely to be attributed  to a vehicles age and 
mileage. 
Based on the information provided and given the age and mileage of the vehicle and the 
mileage Mr C was able to drive before the issue arose,  I do not find I have enough to say 
that the issue Mr C experienced with his vehicle was present at the point of supply. I agree 
with our adjudicator  that the issue was more likely than not due to the age and mileage  of 
the vehicle. Because of this, I do not find that I have  enough evidence to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2816561