K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited trading as Sunny  was 
irresponsible when  it provided him with seven high-cost short-term instalment  loans  between  
August 2015 and August  2016.
background
Mr C took seven loans  with Sunny between 1 August  2015  and 4 August 2016. All the loans 
were due to be repaid  through  six monthly  instalments.  The amounts of the loans varied 
between £100  and £200. I've prepared a table showing some of the information Sunny has 
provided about Mr Cs loans. 
  date  
takenprincipal 
amountdate  
repaidinstalment 
amounthighest  
instalment 
amounts on live 
loans
 Loan 1 01/08/15 £100 27/08/15 £32.54 £32.54
 Loan 2 25/01/16 £150 25/02/16 £50.00 £50.00
 Loan 3 22/02/16 £200 28/04/16 £66.73 £116.73
 Loan 4 13/03/16 £200 28/07/16 £60.12 £126.85
 Loan 5 17/05/16 £100 13/03/17 £29.12 £89.24
 Loan 6 19/06/16 £150 28/10/16 £43.17 £132.41
 Loan 7 04/08/16 £200 28/10/16 £63.50 £135.79
Loans 3 to 7 were taken whilst one or two of the earlier loans were still outstanding. The last 
column in my table  shows how much  Mr C was due to repay each month on his live loans. 
Some of the loans were  repaid early. But Loan 5 wasnt repaid as agreed  and a default 
notice was issued  in respect of this loan in January  2017.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Cs complaint and recommended  that it be partially 
upheld. He didnt  think that Sunny acted responsibly when it provided Loans  6 and 7. Sunny 
doesnt accept  our adjudicators assessment. So, the complaint  has come to me - an 
ombudsman - for a final decision. If Mr C accepts my decision it will be binding  on the 
parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr C could  
repay his loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Cs 
Ref: DRN29003642income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr C. These  factors  include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time 
during which a customer  has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr C could  sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. Whilst 
that might  be an indication a borrower  could sustainably make their repayments, it doesnt 
automatically follow. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as 
meaning that a borrower could repay the loans over the term of the agreement  without 
undue difficulties, on time, whilst meeting other  reasonable commitments and without having 
to borrow to meet those  repayments. And the regulations said that an assessment should 
take into account more than simply  assessing the customer's ability to repay the credit.
With this in mind Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information 
provided and what  this all means for Mr Cs complaint.  
Mr C borrowed  his first loan in August 2015.  He told Sunny  that his monthly  income was 
£1,500. It asked him about some of his expenditure and assessed that he had a monthly  
disposable income of around £486.  The repayments on Loan 1 were  due to be around  £33 
per month. In these  circumstances I dont think it would be fair to conclude  that Sunny failed 
to do enough  when it approved Loan  1.
The first loan was repaid  early  after about four weeks. Mr C returned to Sunny for Loan 2 
about five months  later  in January 2016.  This loan was for a slightly  higher amount at £150 
with monthly repayments of around £50. 
Again, it asked Mr C some questions about  his income and outgoings.  Some of the figures 
he declared were arguably  on the low side but even so, based on the information available  I 
dont think it was irresponsible to approve this loan.
But Im not persuaded that Sunny did enough to check the sustainability of Mr Cs loans from 
the point he took Loan  3. Loans 3 and 4 were  for higher amounts. Mr C began to take a new 
loan before an earlier one had been repaid - and in relatively quick succession.  So, I think  
Sunny shouldve been doing more from this point.  But, as I only have limited evidence  about 
Mr Cs financial  circumstances  at the time,  Im not able to say that, had Sunny done 
proportionate checks, it wouldve seen that Loans 3, 4 and 5 were unaffordable for him. So, 
Im not upholding his complaint about those.
Ref: DRN29003643Loan 6 was Mr Cs fifth loan in four months.  Loans 4 and 5 were  still outstanding so he now 
had three  live loans  with Sunny and the amount  he was due to repay increased to over £132 
per month. The total capital amounts  of these loans came to £450. I note Sunnys comment  
in its final response letter  to Mr C that it was aware  of his poor credit situation 
We believe  that the aforementioned checks were proportionate and responsible  and that 
our initial assessment of the application accounted  for some of the adverse information  held 
at the credit  reference  agencies and as a consequence [Mr C] was offered a small amount of 
credit relative to his stated  income 
So, it seems  that Sunny  was already aware that Mr Cs credit  situation wasnt a strong  one. 
Indeed, I can see that hed had a satisfied default  in 2014, but another one had been  
recorded in 2013 and remained unsatisfied throughout the period Sunny was lending  to 
Mr C. Whilst I accept that a current default  in itself may not necessarily mean that a loan 
would be unsustainable  for a consumer,  it does tend to suggest  that a consumer is 
struggling to manage  their money.
Had Sunny  done  proportionate checks at the time Mr C took Loan 6 and it wouldve seen 
that hed been regularly  borrowing from a number high-cost short-term  lenders since well 
before he started  to borrow from Sunny. At the point he took Loan  6 some of those  loans 
were still outstanding  as well as the default I mention above. As a responsible  lender I 
think Sunny  shouldve declined Mr Cs application for Loan 6 because it was unlikely hed be 
able to repay it sustainably. It was more likely  he was borrowing to repay  earlier credit and 
that he would have to do that again in order to settle the three  live loans he now had with 
Sunny
And Mr C did return for further  credit  - for Loan 7: Mr Cs sixth loan in just over six months. 
Im satisfied that by the time Mr C applied for Loan 7, a pattern had emerged.  Hed repaid 
Loan 4 about one week before he took Loan 7 but Loans 5 and 6 were still outstanding so 
he was now due to repay  the highest  monthly figure  yet  nearly £136. But I also note that 
on the day he repaid  Loan  4 he made repayments  on Loans 5 and 6 too  a total of nearly 
£139. And here he was again, just a week later, asking  to borrow  £200.  
I think this overall pattern  of Mr Cs lending history with Sunny means that it shouldve  
realised that further  lending  was unsustainable  and potentially harmful for him from Loan 7. 
There was an established pattern  of him taking  out loans which were overlapping earlier 
ones. He was keeping the loans  for longer than he had earlier in the lending relationship. 
And he was borrowing sums shortly  after hed made  payments on, or repaid, earlier, often 
overlapping loans. 
So Sunny ought to have  realised it was more  likely  than not Mr C was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole which was left as a result. This resulted in Mr Cs indebtedness 
increasing unsustainably. He wasnt making any real inroads into the amount he owed 
Sunny. 
In these circumstances Im satisfied that Loans 6 and 7 shouldnt  have been provided to 
Mr C and I uphold his complaint about  them.
putting things right
Sunny should  not have provided Loans  6 and 7 to Mr C so I require it to do the following to 
put things right:
Ref: DRN29003644a)Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards  interest, fees and 
charges on Loans 6 and 7, 
b)Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr C which were 
considered as part of a) calculated from the date he originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled
c)Pay Mr C the total of a) plus b).
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny  to deduct tax from this interest.  It should give Mr C a certificate 
showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
I also require Sunny to remove  adverse information  about Loan 6 from Mr Cs credit  file and 
to remove all information from his credit file about  Loan 7. This is because  the overall pattern 
of his borrowing  by the time he took that loan means  any information recorded  about it is 
adverse 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and require Elevate Credit 
International Limited to put things  right in the way Ive explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2900364