K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Lombard North Central Plc misled him into believing  hed been 
approved for a loan - which was then refused. He wants  compensation as hes had to obtain 
a loan from another lender on less favourable  terms.
background
Mr W tells us that he was informed by Lombard that hed been approved for a loan in respect 
of a new vehicle  he wished to purchase. As a result of this he said he sold his own vehicle 
and paid off the finance  on it. But he says when he went back to Lombard for the finance for 
his new vehicle he was told hed have to go through its underwriting  process  again.  Mr W 
says his application was then refused. He says hes since  obtained  the finance elsewhere  
but on less favourable terms. Mr W says that Lombard has paid him £1,000 compensation 
but he doesnt feel this is enough. He says he thinks the additional  cost to him will be in the 
region of £11,000.
Lombard said it hadnt intended to mislead Mr W and most cases  auto-approved up to a 
certain threshold. It accepted the application  process could have been handled better and 
said it had paid Mr W £1,000 to recognise this error.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 16 October 2019. I indicated that I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint. Since then both parties have replied. Lombard said it agreed 
with my provisional decision.  Mr W said he didnt agree and set out a number of reasons 
why. In summary, he feels there was a contract between himself  and Lombard. And that as 
Lombard failed  to honour the terms it had agreed  he feels it should make good all his losses.  
I thank both parties for their replies  but Im not minded to change  my provisional decision. Ill 
give my detailed reasons  in my final decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr W has been caused a good  deal of inconvenience in this matter and I can 
understand why he is upset at the sequence  of events. I think his complaint can be fairly 
summarised as amounting to a claim for compensation  for losses which he says he incurred 
as a result  of misleading information given to him by Lombard.
I should explain that I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account.
Theres no significant dispute about the basic facts in this case. Mr W was considering  
changing his vehicle. But before doing so he sensibly made  enquiries  as to the level of 
finance that might be available  and the terms on which it would be offered. 
During a series of conversations  with Lombard he was told that a loan had been  approved.
And having received this assurance  Mr W then went ahead  with the preliminary steps  to 
acquiring his new vehicle. This involved  selling  his existing vehicle and settling the finance. 
Unfortunately - having taken these steps - he then discovered his application for the finance 
for his new vehicle had been declined by Lombard. In order  to finance  the new vehicle hes 
ended up obtaining  finance from another company, at a higher rate of interest.
Ref: DRN24520222Whilst Ive listened  to a recording  hes sent of a relevant  phone  call it seems there were 
several other  phone  calls relating to the negotiations. Unfortunately,  Lombard hasnt been 
able to find these  on its systems. And Im aware  Mr W feels  theyd further advance his case.  
He says theyd  show he was pressurised into sourcing a replacement vehicle using its loan 
facility.
I can understand why Mr W takes this view, but even if Id had access to the missing calls I 
doubt this wouldve affected my final decision.  Theres no doubt that Lombards 
representative informed  Mr W that the loan he (Mr W) wished to take out had been  
approved. During  part of the conversation, the call handler states  (in relation to the loan),  its 
all approved and ready  to go. So I accept  Mr W was misled.  But if, as he suggests, 
Lombards motivation  had been  to pressurise him into taking the loan then Id have expected 
the loan to go through. As it didnt, it seems more  likely the erroneous information given to 
Mr W was through inadvertence and not by design.
Although there was an error, I dont  think  it follows  that Lombard should  be liable to 
compensate Mr W for the losses  he believes hes incurred and those he thinks will arise in 
the future.  Ill explain why Ive reached  this conclusion.
Mr W thinks a contract was concluded and says that a verbal agreement is as legally binding 
as a written contract. Consequently, he states  Lombard should have to compensate him for 
all the losses he sustains  as result of having to take out his present agreement  rather  than 
the Lombard loan. And he says he doesnt  understand why I said in my provisional  decision 
that I couldnt say that hed sustained any loss.
Firstly, its not for me to decide  if a contract  was validly  concluded - only a court  can do that. 
My decision  is based  on what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution of this 
complaint. But I think  that the main impediment to the claim by Mr W for consequential 
losses is that its not clear  hes incurred any.
In order to say thered  been a loss as a result of the misleading information he was given, 
thered have to be a comparison  made of his current deal with the anticipated Lombard deal 
or any other  deal he could  have accessed. And when he was negotiating with Lombard, Mr 
W mentioned interest rates on a potential loan being offered by the vehicle manufacturer,  a 
company Ill call T. He said that T was offering  rates  between  2.5%  and 3.5 % per year.  
Lombards rate was around 5.4%.  But he says he hasnt linked his alleged losses  to this 
comparison as he states was never going to go look to T for a loan. Im happy to accept this.
So the only figures I have to compare are those for the Lombard loan and the finance 
agreement he ended  up accepting  with another lender. Mr W correctly  points out the APR on 
his current loan is higher.  Its around 7.6%  compared with 5.4%. But the loan hed negotiated 
with Lombard  was for five years and the present loan is for three  years. So its not a like for 
like comparison. And it cant be assumed that the interest rate on a five year loan is 
necessarily available  with a loan for a different period. Also because of the lesser  period of 
the current loan the actual  amount of interest payable under the present loan is less than 
wouldve been payable  under the Lombard loan.  And Ive seen no information to show that if 
Lombard had offered  a three  year loan it would have done  so at the same lower  rate. 
Ref: DRN24520223Im sure Mr W tried to obtain  the best available  rate for his current deal. But Ive not been  
provided with any information  to show what other alternatives might have been available  for 
a five year loan period with other lenders. There was only a few days  between Lombards 
letter of 9 May 2018 notifying the loan application  had been  declined and the new agreement  
being signed on 14 May. This doesnt give much time for full range of alternative finance  
options to be checked. So all I can reasonably conclude  is that the option Mr W chose  was 
the best he was able to obtain in the time he had available. It doesnt necessarily follow that 
it offered the best available terms. I dont think theres any information on which it would be 
fair to say hes incurred  a loss as a direct  consequence of Lombards actions.
Hes also referred to having to refinance  at the end of the current agreement  at a 
significantly disadvantageous rate. Or alternatively  risk having  to pay a higher balloon  
payment. But its simply not possible to know what  will happen  in three  years  time. Theres 
no knowing  what rate of interest  Mr W might be able to access at that time. It would be 
dependent on interest rates generally  and also his financial circumstances at the time.  So 
again its not reasonable to say that any loss will be incurred.
Mr W states that Lombard had information relating to his credit history  which  meant it 
shouldve known that if he terminated his current agreement with it - in order to take on a 
new agreement - that hed not be able to obtain as favourable terms elsewhere. But again I 
think this makes certain assumptions which are not supported by any evidence  with which 
Ive been supplied. There are a vast range of lenders each with its own different criteria and 
lending models.  Whilst Lombard might  reasonably  have been aware of the general  level of 
interest rates normally available to someone with Mr Ws credit  history it couldnt know what 
terms hed actually be able to negotiate.  Nor was it responsible for the factors  which  Mr W 
thinks adversely affected his credit rating  and might lead to less favourable terms being 
offered.
In summary,  I recognise the upset and inconvenience which  Mr W experienced after 
Lombard declined  his application. The basis on which Mr W has estimated his anticipated 
losses is, with respect,  dependent upon  various assumptions. And Ive no seen information 
which makes me think that such assumptions can be relied upon. I dont think  its been  
shown that any actual loss will necessarily arise.
I think the £1,000  paid by Lombard is fair and reasonable to compensate  Mr W for the 
inconvenience hes experienced due to the misleading information he was given
Whilst I know it will be a disappointment to Mr W Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2452022