K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained that his motor insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc, caused  a long delay in 
dealing with his claim from an accident and failed  to communicate properly. Mr E said this 
caused him a loss of earnings for which he seeks compensation of around £1,000. 
background
Mr E was involved  in an accident  which he reported  to AXA on 26 April 2018. AXA agreed to 
Mr Es request to use a repairer of his choice rather than AXAs  approved repairer. AXA said 
on 3 May 2018  the third-party insurer (TPI) offered to split liability for the accident, 50/50,  
which it rejected.
AXA said Mr E called for an update on 15 May 2018  and it told him his claim  would take 
longer, as it is a foreign claim. AXA said it realised the TPI had sent it an incorrect  
registration number  for the third partys  car and requested  it check  its details on 30 May 
2018. AXA said it sent the TPI a reminder about this on 7 June 2018.  
AXA sent the invoice for the repairs to the TPI on 14 June 2018  and updated Mr E about this 
when he called the same  day. AXA said it updated Mr E over the next three  months. AXA 
said that on 10 September  2018 the TPI accepted  full liability for the claim. AXA spoke to Mr 
E that day and told him he could have his excess payment back  and his no claims discount 
(NCD) and premium would be adjusted. Mr E was repaid his excess  on 10 September  2018. 
Mr E complained to AXA that it had dealt with his claim  incompetently and he had had to call 
many times and even  had to call the TPI to find out what  was happening. He said this meant 
spending time away from work which caused  him to lose earnings.  
AXA responded to Mr Es complaint and agreed that its service wasnt  up to standard and 
paid him £200  compensation.  AXA asked Mr E to send some evidence  of his lost earnings.   
Mr E told AXA that he found  the compensation to be insulting. Mr E told us that he had spent 
about ten hours sorting out the issues around  his claim. He said that he can earn between 
£100-£150 per hour, but this wouldnt  be reflected on his payslips as it was more  the missed 
opportunity that hed lost out on. He said he could get his manager  to write a letter  
confirming the amount  of time he spent  in dealing with the insurance issues.
Mr E told us that AXA got the number plate  of the other car wrong initially and their original 
advice was that the driver was uninsured. Mr E said he called AXA a number  of times and 
was on hold for 45 - 60 minutes only to be told there were no updates. He said he got the 
contact details for the TPI and was able to find out some more information. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She thought AXA had caused  a 
months delay by taking  down  the wrong registration  number. But she thought that AXA had 
progressed the claim properly afterwards. She said AXA apologised to Mr E for its poor 
service and paid him £200 compensation and offered to consider further compensation if he 
provided evidence  of loss of earnings. She said no evidence was provided  by Mr E and so 
we wouldnt expect AXA to offer more  compensation.
Mr E didnt agree with the adjudicator about the compensation. He said his payslips are 
private and confidential and he shouldnt  have to show them to AXA.  He said he had 
resolved the claim  by convincing the TPI that the third party was at fault, and that AXA did 
Ref: DRN22098542nothing and never contacted him with an update.  Mr E requested an ombudsman  review his 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E said AXA had failed  to keep him updated about his claim.  He said he spent a lot of time 
chasing AXA for information  with no update  and felt he was doing their job for them. Mr E 
said he got more  information from the TPI than from AXA. He said hed lost earnings for the 
length of time hed spent sorting  things  out.
Ive looked at the records of communications provided by AXA.  This shows that Mr Es claim 
took nearly five months to resolve.  Claims where  liability is disputed generally take several 
months or more to resolve.  And Ive seen from the records  that the third party wasnt  from 
the UK and AXA has explained that in this situation  claims  usually take longer to resolve. In 
the circumstances, I dont think the time taken in this case  is unreasonable. Having  said that, 
AXA doesnt  appear to have progressed  the claim from 26 April to 30 May 2018 as it had 
taken down the wrong registration number for the third partys car. Although this was 
avoidable, Mr Es car was being  repaired at the same time and when AXA received  the 
repair bill on 14 June it sent this to the TPI the same day with a request for payment. 
Unfortunately, it took nearly three months  from when Mr Es car was repaired for the TPI to 
accept full liability for the claim. AXAs records show it was in regular contact with the TPI 
about the claim and I dont think this delay was AXAs  fault. During this time AXA sent Mr E 
two emails on 3 and 30 July 2018  updating  him about the claim. Before this I cant  see that 
AXA was proactive in updating Mr E as it only gave  him updates in response to his requests.
Mr E said he had to pursue his claim with the TPI and persuade it to accept liability  for the 
claim. From AXAs records I can see that it set out the reasons the TPI should  accept liability 
and pursued the TPIs response to this until it accepted full liability for the accident. 
AXA invited Mr E to send it evidence of his lost earnings, but he declined  to do so. I think its 
reasonable for AXA to request evidence in support of Mr Es loss and I dont think it would be 
fair for me to require  AXA to pay for this without  seeing anything to show theres been a loss.
Theres always some  degree  of inconvenience  in dealing with a claim following an accident  
and progress can be slow. Although  AXA was responsible for a delay at the start of the claim 
I dont think this had much effect  on the time taken overall. We do expect insurers to update 
policyholders about  their claims and I think AXA could have been more  proactive about this. 
Having looked  carefully at AXAs  handling  of Mr Es claim Ive reached the same conclusion  
as our adjudicator  that AXAs payment of £200  compensation  is about  right for the impact its 
poor service had upon Mr E.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Ref: DRN22098543Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2209854