K820x#14complaint
Mr R, through his son, complains that First Direct, which is a brand  of HSBC UK Bank Plc, 
wont refund  more than £30,000 of disputed cash machine withdrawals. Mr R has been 
represented in bringing this complaint by his son, who has held an enduring  power of 
attorney since 2007. The power of attorney was registered with the Office  of the Public  
Guardian in 2017,  after Mr R became unable to manage his own affairs. 
background
Mr R had a number of bank and credit  card accounts, including an account with First Direct. 
Mr Rs son became aware of what he considered to be unusual transactions  on some  of 
those accounts  and contacted the financial businesses concerned.  They blocked the 
accounts when  Mr Rs son contacted them, and investigated what  had happened.  As a 
result, three businesses  made refunds to Mr R in 2016.
It wasnt until early  2017, however, that Mr Rs son became aware  of his fathers First Direct  
account. When he looked into it, he found that there had been regular and frequent  cash  
machine withdrawals from the account from February 2015 to March  2016. They  totalled  
more than £30,000 - significantly more than had been spent on Mr Rs other accounts.
First Direct  says that, in March 2016, it had received information from another  company 
within the HSBC  Group  about suspicious activity on Mr Rs account. It had written  to him, but 
had then been contacted  by someone  they didnt believe to be him; First Direct had blocked 
his account as a result.  It didnt however take any further steps at that time, such as 
investigating the withdrawals; it said it had no authority  to do so.
When Mr Rs son contacted First Direct, it said it couldnt investigate the withdrawals. That 
was because they had all been made more than 13 months previously; relevant legislation 
meant that Mr R could no longer challenge  those  transactions.  However,  because  they were 
all cash machine withdrawals made  within the UK, it was, the bank said, reasonable to 
assume that all had been made using the genuine card and PIN.
Mr Rs son has said that his younger  brother moved in with their father early in 2014. He 
suspects that his brother or his brothers then partner found his fathers  PIN and was able to 
use his card without his fathers consent.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Rs complaint. She didnt believe Mr R had 
consented to the cash  machine withdrawals. Nor did she think she could  fairly  conclude that 
Mr R hadnt taken proper  care of his card and PIN, or that hed agreed to anyone else having  
use of the card. In the circumstances, she thought  it fair that First Direct should refund the 
disputed withdrawals, together  with interest at 8% a year.
First Direct  didnt  accept the investigators  findings and asked that an ombudsman review  
them. 
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different  conclusion  from that reached by the 
investigator, issued  a provisional decision. 
I acknowledged that it was possible that Mr R hadnt made or authorised the disputed  
withdrawals, even though theyd been  made using the genuine card and PIN. There were 
opportunities for others  to take advantage of him, at a time when  he was beginning to lose 
the ability to manage  his own affairs.  
Ref: DRN25787532I also said though  that I shouldnt  discount other  explanations  for example,  that Mr R might 
have benefited  from some of the withdrawals or that Mr R wanted  someone else to have 
some or all of the money. I noted  that it was probably not possible to know for certain what  
had happened. Mr R hadnt  challenged the banks decision to block  the account, and other  
account providers  had made  refunds; it was likely  that those other providers were satisfied 
that Mr R hadnt authorised the withdrawals.
First Direct  had said that it couldnt look into the disputed withdrawals because, by the time it 
knew about them, more  than 13 months had passed. The regulation the bank relied  on in 
saying that wasnt,  I noted,  consistent  with our own rules. But I thought  that any investigation  
would most  likely have  shown that the withdrawals had been  made  using the genuine card 
and PIN, but First Direct  wouldnt have been able to provide any information about the 
circumstances in which that had happened. 
But my primary  concern was, I said, that Mr Rs son had suggested that his younger brother 
was responsible for the disputed withdrawals.  It was possible that hed done so with Mr Rs 
authority or that Mr R had benefited  from them. But, I said,  whatever the explanation, it 
appeared to me that this was in reality  a dispute  among  family  members. In the 
circumstances I didnt  believe it could  be fairly  resolved in the context  of a dispute between  
Mr R and First Direct.  My provisional  conclusion was, therefore, that I didnt believe it would 
be fair to require First Direct  to make a refund of the disputed transactions.  
Mr Rs son replied on Mr Rs behalf.  In summary, he said: 
He had queried his fathers credit card with the other provider within the HSBC group, 
but First Direct hadnt  contacted  him or his father when it blocked his card. 
The regulator had told him that, notwithstanding the 13-month time limit, First Direct  
should still assess each complaint  individually.  
His brothers girlfriend also had access to his fathers house. He believes that she is 
likely to be the primary culprit. 
His fathers circumstances make it extremely unlikely that he benefited from the money. 
He wouldnt have needed  the money, since he had access to other accounts for his 
living expenses. 
It was unlikely  that his father had agreed  to his brother having the money. Had his 
father wanted  to give money to his brother,  he could have  transferred  a lump sum.
His case is supported by the fact that other  banks made refunds.  
As I say, this is a summary of the further  submissions only, but I can assure Mr Rs son that I 
have considered very carefully all his comments before reaching this decision.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs son says that First Direct didnt contact his father when it blocked his card. In fact, it 
did try to contact Mr R. It wrote to him, but thought (correctly)  that the response to its letter 
hadnt come  from Mr R. I dont believe it was under any duty to try to contact Mr Rs son; 
although he held a power of attorney, it hadnt at that point been registered with the Office of 
the Public Guardian, so it was reasonable of First Direct to try to deal with Mr R. 
Ref: DRN25787533I agree  with Mr Rs son that First Direct should  have investigated the withdrawals, rather  
than relying on the 13-month time limit in the Payment Services  Regulations  2009.  But its 
ability to do so would have been limited  and the outcome broadly the same;  the investigation 
would have shown  that the withdrawals had been made using the genuine  card and PIN. So 
I still have to consider  the wider circumstances here. 
I note too what Mr Rs son has said about  the people who might  have  had access to his 
fathers home and, therefore, been in a position to use his card and PIN. Hes said too that 
his father  had no reason to take his account  overdrawn, since  he had money in other  
accounts. And I agree that the fact the other  banks  made refunds is a strong indication that 
Mr R didnt benefit from the withdrawals. 
But, as I indicated in my provisional  decision, my main concern is that Mr Rs son believes 
he knows who carried out the withdrawals  in other  words, who took his fathers money.  
Hes clarified that he suspects his brothers girlfriend  (as well as his brother). That was, and 
is, why I took the view that this is a dispute  best  and most fairly  resolved  between Mr R 
and those whom Mr Rs son suspects of being the perpetrators. In saying that, I dont 
suggest at all that Mr R is seeking  to benefit from the situation or that his son is seeking to 
do anything other than protect his fathers  money. 
I accept that its more likely than not that Mr R didnt make or authorise the disputed  
withdrawals, but thats not the end of the matter.  I must make  my decision on the basis  of 
what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  and that must include 
what Mr Rs son has said about who he believes took the money. For these reasons I remain 
of the view that this matter is best resolved between Mr R and those whom  his son suspects  
of being directly involved. It wouldnt  in my view be fair to require First Direct to make a 
refund. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to take any further steps  to 
resolve Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2578753