K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about a CIFAS marker placed against her by Bank of Scotland plc (trading 
as Halifax). Shes lost a lot of money  as she cant continue her bitcoin trading.
background
Miss S used her Halifax account to buy and sell bitcoin. A third party made a fraudulent 
claim against her. But Miss S was able to provide evidence to support her position. She was 
told on several occasions her details  wouldnt  be added to CIFAS (the Credit  Industry  Fraud 
Avoidance System). But she discovered Halifax had loaded her by mistake.
Miss S said Halifax offered £500  compensation for the error. And it said the CIFAS  marker 
had been removed. But Miss S said she lost around £50000 because of the banks error.  
She hadnt been able to continue her trading.  And shed had problems with another third 
party because of the mistake. So Miss S wants Halifax to increase the compensation to take 
into account her losses. 
Halifax said there were concerns about  the activity on Miss Ss account. And a decision had 
been made to close her account. Miss S had been  advised she wouldnt be able to open an 
account with any of the banks within the same  banking group due to its internal  fraud  
prevention measures. 
But Halifax  accepted Miss Ss details had been added to CIFAS in error. Even though itd 
said they wouldnt be. Halifax said it had arranged for them  to be removed. And it paid a total 
of £520 compensation to Miss S. But the bank said it wasnt  liable for any funds removed by 
an external organisation. And it wasnt liable  for any gains or losses Miss G mightve  made 
while she was unable  to trade in bitcoins.
Miss S wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response. So she contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could  see Halifax  had mistakenly  added  Miss Ss 
details to CIFAS. But she felt the offer of £500  compensation  and a further £20 for telephone 
calls was a fair and reasonable response. She couldnt ask Halifax to compensate  Miss S 
because she hadnt been able to trade  in bitcoins.  There was no way of knowing what the 
potential gains or losses might be.
Miss S didnt agree. Her health and finances  had suffered greatly.  So shes  asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how upsetting  this has been  for Miss S. She says not been  able to open a new 
current account because  of Halifaxs mistake. And shes been unable  to trade in bitcoins so 
shes lost a lot of potential profits. Miss S says shes suffered from depression  and anxiety 
because of the error. So Ive looked carefully  at whats happened.  And what  Halifax has 
done to put things right.
Ref: DRN28115932Halifax, like other  banks,  carries out regular reviews of customer  accounts.  It felt the activity 
on Miss Ss account might present a risk. So it decided to end its business relationship  with 
her. 
Following a dispute with a third party about  a bitcoin  transaction Miss S says she was told on 
four occasions she wouldnt  be placed on the CIFAS register.  But she discovered her details 
had been added. Halifax accepted theyd been loaded  in error. And it removed the CIFAS  
marker in October  2018. 
Miss S says shes lost a lot of money while shes been unable  to trade. And she feels  she 
received a poor service from the bank when she tried to complain. Miss S says theres  also 
been an issue with a third party removing funds  from her account. I can see our investigator 
has advised Miss S to contact the third party and advise them of the error. And I think  thats 
the right approach in the circumstances.
But Miss S says shes also been unable to continue trading.  Shes used her previous trades 
to forecast  what she wouldve made  if shed  been able to trade for the past six months.  And 
says shes lost around £50000.
I understand Miss S has been  able to open a business account with another bank. But shes  
still finding it difficult to open a current account  elsewhere. She cant  open an account with a 
bank within  the same banking group as Halifax. And I can see thats  something  Miss S was 
advised about when Halifax ended the business  relationship. But Halifax  has acted  within 
the terms and conditions of the account.  Its entitled  to end its relationship  with its customers 
just as they might decide to move their accounts  to another bank.
Ive checked Halifax is no longer reporting anything to CIFAS. The bank  has confirmed the 
loading was removed  last year and nothing  would come up if it searched  for Miss S. So I 
cant say Halifax is responsible for Miss Ss current banking difficulties. There isnt the 
evidence to say its to blame.
I do appreciate how much  stress this has caused  Miss S. But Ive not seen anything to 
suggest Halifax is now reporting anything to CIFAS. And I cant  ask the bank to compensate 
Miss S for any potential gains or losses she mightve made if shed been able to continue 
trading bitcoins. Miss S says she traded profitably in the past. But there is no way of 
calculating what the outcome of any future  trades might be. 
I realise Miss S will be disappointed with this outcome. Halifax  has accepted it made  a 
mistake loading her details to CIFAS. And I think the offer of £520  compensation for the error  
and for her calls is reasonable in the circumstances. But I cant  ask the bank to compensate 
Miss S for what  mightve been.  So I wont be asking the bank to do anything more.
Ref: DRN28115933my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2811593