K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about certain functions  on Trading 212 UK Limiteds platform, and the 
losses these caused him as a result of a trade  he placed in error.
background
In July 2018 Mr R was trading Contracts for Differences (CFDs)  on Trading 212s platform. 
He wanted to open two contracts in the Germany 30 index. But instead of opening  just two 
contracts, Mr R placed a Pending Order  for 200 contracts. After almost  three minutes, the 
Pending Order triggered and he bought  200 contracts in Germany 30. A few minutes after 
the trade was opened, Mr R looked  at his account  and saw a much larger unrealised loss 
than he anticipated.  At which point he closed  the trade and crystallised a loss of over €3,700.   
Mr R complained to Trading 212 who didnt think it had done anything  wrong. In summary, it 
acknowledged that Mr R didnt intend to place such a large order but found no fault with its 
system. And it thought that Mr R had ample  time to change the Pending Order before it was 
executed, or to close his trade  immediately  after it was executed  in order  to limit or avoid his 
losses. Mr R remained unhappy and referred  his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt consider it should be upheld. In 
summary, he concluded:
The account was appropriate  for Mr R on the basis that he had previously traded CFDs 
and Forex,  had a relevant professional qualification and understood how stop losses 
and leveraging worked. Mr R also confirmed that he had assets totalling €1,200,000.
The audit logs from Trading  212s systems  show that an order  for 200 contracts  was 
placed. These  logs also show that the order was in the pending order  tab, which meant  
that Mr R couldve  amended it if he wanted  to  and it was a pending order for almost 
three minutes before it was executed. The investigator  said there  was insufficient 
evidence of any technical issues with Trading 212s platform  at the time.
He wasnt persuaded that it was reasonable for Mr R to conclude that the Market  Order 
tab had to reflect the Pending Order  tab, as these  were  two different functions and were 
described as such in the terms. As a result, it was Mr Rs responsibility  to be sure of the 
size of the order before he confirmed the Pending  Order. 
The investigator had no concerns over how the order  tab was pre-populated before 
being confirmed.  He accepted Trading 212s explanation  that this was dynamic  and 
simply reflected the equity available in the account  it would then be for the consumer 
to input the precise number of contracts he wanted to trade.  
The investigator also noted that Mr R had enough time to amend the Pending Order 
before it was executed, as well as time to close the open trade shortly after it was 
executed and this wouldve significantly reduced  his losses. Although the investigator  
acknowledged that Mr R said he wasnt monitoring the position at that point as he had 
other matters to attend to, the investigator  didnt consider  it would be fair to hold Trading 
212 responsible for losses  Mr R couldve avoided himself  especially given that he 
didnt find that it had done  anything  wrong in the execution of the orders  to begin with. 
Ref: DRN24208002Mr R didnt agree. In short he said:
His complaint was that the system should not have proposed a position  nor 
automatically filled the amount of contracts. It was inevitable  that this would lead to 
mistakes and that Trading  212 would benefit  from this. 
Even if it was allowed for the system to suggest the size of positions or the number of 
contracts, it shouldnt  have been based on the liquidity available in the account,  but 
instead on usage of the trader. He said that this was especially relevant in his case, 
given that he had never traded  this many contracts  in the past. 
He said that despite the above,  if the order was changed in the Market Order  tab this 
should be automatically reflected in the Pending  Order  tab. 
He said the system  shouldve recognised this order was too high or carried more risk, 
and should have warned him several  times or explicitly asked for confirmation that this 
was the order  he wanted to place.  
He didnt understand  why the investigator had looked at whether  the account  was 
appropriate as he hadnt complained about  that. 
He didnt dispute that the order of 200 contracts was placed.  
The fact that this was an execution  only account  didnt mean that Trading 212 could  do 
anything it wanted  or expose customers to disproportionate  risks. 
The investigator considered Mr Rs additional points,  but they didnt change his mind. In short:
There was no regulatory requirement  which meant that Trading 212 needed to amend 
the way the pending  tab or the market  order tab operated in order to be in line with what 
Mr R considered  was right. 
When using the relevant tabs,  the investigator  said that the requirement  was for the way 
these tabs operated  to be fair, clear  and not misleading.  The investigator was satisfied 
that the tabs were clear in the way they operated and were clear about  the number of 
contracts which would be traded. 
There was no evidence  that the Market Order tab and the Pending  Order  tab were  
meant to work  in conjunction or update each other according to what  one inputted  in one 
or the other. And there was no evidence Mr R was given  misleading information  before 
placing the order. So it was Mr Rs responsibility  to ensure that he checked the order 
before placing  it. 
Even based  on the evidence Mr R supplied (a video of him using the relevant tabs), the 
investigator was satisfied that the number of contracts being traded was clear. So he 
concluded that Mr R ought to have  noticed  the number of contracts he was placing  
before he confirmed the order. After confirming the order  he also wouldve been  able to 
see the number  of contracts  he traded   and he couldve cancelled the Pending  Order  
before it was executed, or closed it shortly after execution. 
Ref: DRN24208003The investigator wasnt persuaded that the reasons Mr R had given for why he hadnt 
checked the order before it executed, or after, were sufficient  to conclude that it would 
be fair to ask Trading  212 to compensate him. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I can see that Mr R feels  strongly about his complaint, and I understand that essentially he 
believes that the way the platform works  increases the risks of consumers making the very 
same mistake he made.  My understanding of Mr Rs comments is that he doesnt dispute 
that he did actually  place an order for 200 contracts  in Germany  30. 
But he says that when he went into the Market  Order tab, the box which required him to 
specify the number  of contracts he wanted to trade was already pre-populated.  He believes 
it shouldnt have done this  or at the very least,  if Trading 212 wanted  to suggest a trade  
size, it should  have done so by looking at his previous  trades, not basing it on the available  
liquidity in his account. 
And then,  when he amended the Market  Order to reflect the actual size he wanted  to trade, 
he expected this to transpose  to the Pending Order tab. Instead it didnt do this  Mr R 
strongly believes that it should have. I understand why Mr R believes this - it seems entirely 
logical that if I wanted  to only trade certain amount of contracts, it wouldnt  matter whether I 
did this as a Market Order  subject to immediate execution or a Pending Order subject to 
execution at a specific price. 
And Mr R has explained  that given his personal circumstances, he uses  Pending  Orders  
frequently because  it isnt possible  for him to be at his computer all the time. So in this 
instance, he placed a Pending Order assuming it would be for the number of contracts he 
had specified  in the Market Order tab, and then turned his attention to other matters without 
checking. The problem  then arose  when  the Pending Order was executed for 200 contracts. 
So I understand how this error came about, and fully understand why Mr R believes so 
strongly that there  is a flaw in Trading 212s system. But it isnt my role to decide how 
Trading 212s system should operate, nor what features it should offer on its website, nor 
even whether the features  it offers are good, bad or indifferent.  
My role is to determine whether Mr R has been  treated  unfairly  and in particular whether 
there was anything about Trading 212s platform which misled Mr R into making the mistake  
that he did. 
I appreciate he will be disappointed,  but theres insufficient evidence  for me to conclude that 
there is. Whilst I can understand how the error arose, unfortunately Im not persuaded its 
something I should ask Trading  212 to compensate him for. I say this because:
Theres no evidence  in the terms or elsewhere  that Trading 212 claims that the Market  
Order tab and the Pending Order  tab work in conjunction. They  are different ways of 
placing an order, and Mr R ought  to have checked both carefully to ensure he was 
placing the order he wanted to place. 
Ref: DRN24208004The account was execution only  this means that Mr R was ultimately  responsible for 
the trades  he placed, including sizes and specific markets. 
This means  that even if the box relating to the number of contracts  was pre-populated with 
a figure, it was his responsibility to ensure that he amended  that figure to reflect the trade 
he wanted  to place. And that he only clicked the button to place the order  when  he was 
satisfied that everything about  the order was what  he wanted. So whatever the logic 
behind why Trading  212 adds a figure in that box, Im not persuaded that of itself is unfair.
Mr R had multiple  opportunities,  despite the above, to amend the Pending order before it 
was executed, and to close  it shortly  after executing. Whilst I can understand the reasons  
Mr R has given for being otherwise engaged at that time, its not something I can blame 
Trading 212 for or hold it responsible for the losses  which arose  in consequence. 
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that I should  uphold this complaint against  Trading  
212 and ask it to pay Mr R compensation. Im satisfied that Mr R made  a mistake in placing 
the trade that he did, but that this mistake wasnt induced or in any way a result of something 
Trading 212 did or didnt do. While  I appreciate that Mr R will be disappointed by my 
conclusions given his strength of feeling,  I hope  he can see Ive only reached this decision 
after careful consideration of the evidence available. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2420800