K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland plc will not reimburse  him for a series of 
three cash withdrawals and five retail  transactions totalling £7,449.65  which  were made on 
1 December 2017.
Background
Together with a friend, Mr T travelled by ferry from his home for a night out                               
             on Thursday  30 November 2017.  He  used his debit card several  times  during that 
day and into the early hours of Friday 1 December  2017, when he says his card was stolen  
possibly as a result of being attacked when he was walking  back to his hotel, having by then 
become separated from his friends.
The disputed transactions  all of which took place on Friday 1 December 2017  are as 
follows:
Time Amount Transaction Type Location
03:17 £11.85 Cash Withdrawal                                                              
03:25 £151.85 Cash Withdrawal                                                        
03:26 £121.85 Cash Withdrawal                                                        
10:06 £2,000.00 Retail: Chip and PIN                                                  
10:08 £1,149.00 Retail: Chip and PIN                                                  
10:25 £1,295.10 Retail: Chip and PIN                                      
11:03 £720.00 Retail: Chip and PIN                                                
14:03 £2,000.00 Retail: Chip and PIN                                                  
The first two cash withdrawals were preceded by balance enquiries in the same  locations, 
and there  were four further balance enquiries between the last cash  withdrawal and the first 
retail transaction  two in                    , and two in            .  There were then two more 
balance enquiries                    before the         retail transaction, and another before the           
  retail transaction.
In addition, four transfers were made from Mr Ts savings account  to his current  account  
three at cash  machines  at unknown times, and one in a bank branch at 13:04.   The  transfers 
topped up Mr Ts current  account so that the retail transactions could be made.
Mr T says he last used his card in the                       bar in                   at 02:45 on 1 
December 2017  for £7.00.  That transaction, unlike earlier contactless transactions  at the 
same and another bar, was authorised by Chip and PIN.  Mr T reported the loss of his card 
to the bank by phone a couple of minutes  after the last retail transaction early in the 
afternoon of 
1 December 2017.
Our investigator did not recommend that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld.  On  balance, 
she considered  it more likely than not that Mr T had either made the transactions himself or 
had consented  to someone  else doing so.  She found, in summary:
the transactions  including the balance enquiries and transfers  had all been  made  
with Mr Ts genuine card and PIN.  There hadnt been any failed  PIN entries;
if someone had attacked  Mr T and stolen his card she found it surprising, bearing mind 
what hed said about keeping his card in his wallet, that only the card  not the wallet, 
nor anything  else  was missing; and
Ref: DRN26328292the delay in using the card thereafter, and the overall timings and sequence of events, 
did not suggest that the transactions were made by someone unknown to Mr T.
Mr T did not accept the investigators conclusions.  In asking for his complaint to be reviewed 
he said, in summary:
CCTV had been available  at the time and could  have  helped establish what had 
happened  at the stores, in the street, and at the bank branch.  But  no attempt had 
been made at the time to obtain CCTV footage, despite his taking steps to protect it by 
calling the stores  and explaining the situation;
neither he nor his car left                       on 1 December  until he was preparing to return  
home on the ferry much  later that day, which his phone confirms;
hes read that there are many ways  criminals  can discover a cardholders  PIN; and
hes been the victim of fraud.   Hed been saving his money as a deposit for his first 
house, so to suggest I would spend all my years savings in a couple of hours  is 
unfathomable.
My findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments in order to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator  set out in her initial conclusions, the Payment Services Regulations say  
amongst other things   when a bank  is entitled  to debit transactions to a customers  account.   
Broadly, transactions  can be debited if the customer made or otherwise authorised them   
either expressly or by implication (for example, if the customer didnt take appropriate care of 
their card and PIN).  Here, I note Mr T says he had not shared his PIN with anyone.
In this case, I am satisfied  as was the investigator   that the transactions  were made with 
Mr Ts genuine  card and PIN.  The chip in Mr Ts card was read each time, and the correct 
PIN was entered the first time on each occasion.   So its clear that whoever made the 
transactions had the genuine card and knew Mr Ts correct PIN.
But theres uncertainty about how someone  might have acquired both the card and the PIN.  
Mr T accepts he last used his card on the Friday at 02:45 in the                       bar and we 
know that, unusually   given the amount, and earlier transactions   this was Chip  and PIN 
not contactless.  Its possible that someone unknown to Mr T, who was also in the bar, saw 
him enter his PIN and either obtained his card there and then or did so a short while later 
during the attack Mr T has described.   Mr T has, of course, said he doesnt know whether 
that and the loss of his card were  linked  and there were apparently no witnesses to what 
happened whilst he was walking  back to his hotel.  Indeed, Mr T cant  recall where the attack  
took place  he has explained he had been  drinking heavily that evening  so its unclear if it 
might have been near the bar (which may have  been quite busy then) or somewhere quieter.
Mr T has further  explained that nothing else was lost or stolen from him, including  his phone.  
He has said he returned to his hotel at about  04:00   although, judging by the GPS  location 
information he later provided,  he (or, more  specifically, his phone)  is shown as having been  
walking around                      between  05:35 and 08:59 that morning too.  But, either way, I 
note that Mr T did not tell the bank his card was missing, or report  the attack to the Police, 
until around 11 hours after it had happened.  I understand why he might not have done so  
perhaps because,  after his night  of heavy drinking, he hadnt immediately realised the card 
was missing.  However, its worth noting that  under the Payment Services  Regulations  a 
Ref: DRN26328293bank is reasonably entitled not to refund disputed transactions if its customer takes an undue 
amount of time to report the loss or theft of a card.
The first few disputed  transactions  were relatively  modest  cash  withdrawals of £10, £150,  
and £120 (plus, on each occasion, a £1.85 fee).  The much more  significant transactions 
were the retail purchases which  were made between  10:06 and 14:03  facilitated  by the 
transfers from Mr Ts savings account  for which, again, only the card and PIN were needed.  
Mr T has, not unreasonably, said that if CCTV footage had been obtained at the time  its 
long since gone  now  that might  have helped to show who actually made the transactions, 
and also the in-branch  transfer.  Thats certainly true  although, even so, it might not have 
been enough to conclude  that the bank  should  have refunded the transactions.  I say this 
partly because CCTV can sometimes  be unclear or indistinct (even if it covers the specific 
area), and partly because  whilst it might  have shown who made the transactions it wouldnt 
necessarily have helped  answer the question about  whether  Mr T had authorised  someone  
else to do so  either  expressly, or implicitly, as I set out earlier.
As things  stand, I have  to reach my decision based on the information  that is available to me 
 in other words,  without  the benefit  of any CCTV footage.  I have noted Mr Ts clarity of 
view  and strength of feeling  about  having been  a victim  of fraud, and that he did not 
make the transactions himself.  But there are, nevertheless, a number  of pointers to their 
having been made by someone close to him  whats sometimes referred to as an 
acquainted fraudster (as opposed to an unacquainted fraudster,  who has no links with the 
customer).  
As the investigator  set out, its more usual for an unacquainted fraudster to set about  
emptying an account  as quickly as possible before the customer  finds out his card is 
missing, and also to carry on trying to make  transactions after the card has been reported  
missing.  But  here, only relatively small amounts were taken initially (even  after balance 
enquiries were made) and then there was a gap of over six hours before the retail  
transactions.  Its also unusual for some to have been made in other cities;  again, its more 
usual for an account  to be emptied  as easily as possible as well as quickly.   And  finally,  
there were no further attempted  transactions after Mr T reported the loss of his card to the 
bank  even though more  money could have  been taken.  This all indicates that whoever 
made the transactions not only had access to a vehicle but also knew  when Mr T had 
contacted the bank  about his card.
The decision  I need to make is whether, in all the circumstances, it was fair and reasonable 
for the bank to have decided not to refund the disputed transactions  to Mr T.  As is often the 
case, the totality of the evidence is not clear-cut either way  and some  (such as CCTV 
footage) is not available.  This  means  that I need  to reach my conclusion  on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened, bearing in 
mind the evidence that is available  and the wider  surrounding circumstances.
I can certainly see its possible that Mr T did not make  the transactions himself.  He has said 
he was ill in bed for much  of the day of Friday 1 December 2017  before he and his friend 
retrieved their car to catch the return  ferry home.   In addition, Mr Ts phone location 
information shows that it remained in                     throughout the day (although that isnt 
quite the same as saying  Mr T was).   But, on the other hand,  the way Mr T explains he kept 
his card,  and what hes said about  not telling anyone  his PIN, make  it difficult  to see how an 
unacquainted fraudster might have been able to obtain both of them  without his knowing.  
Ref: DRN26328294However, if someone else was able to do so  as Mr T has suggested,  and maybe helped by 
it happening  at the end of a long night out  it still doesnt explain the pattern of the 
transactions (that is, their being relatively  spread out, money not being withdrawn anything 
like as quickly as it might have been, and  in particular  the timing of their ending).  On 
balance, therefore,  and after careful thought, I consider  it less likely rather  than more  likely 
that the transactions were  made  by someone  unknown to Mr T.  Like the investigator,  
I believe it is more likely  that whoever made the withdrawals, if not Mr T himself, was 
someone known  to  and, on the day in question, close to him.
I do understand what Mr T has said about  much of his savings being spent in one day on 
clothes and electronic  items.  However, in light of all that I have set out above, I have come 
to the same  overall  conclusion as the investigator did.  In  all the circumstances, and on the 
balance of probabilities, I find it most likely that whoever made the transactions   if not Mr T 
himself  did so with his consent or, contrary to what he says, he (either  knowingly or 
unknowingly) didnt take enough reasonable care of his card and PIN and so allowed 
someone else access to them.  That includes  not reporting the loss/theft of his card to the 
bank for around  11 hours after the attack  Mr T has described.  It therefore follows from all of 
this that, whichever it was, I find I am unable fairly to conclude that the bank should be 
required to refund the transactions  to him.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my Final  Decision is that I am unable  to uphold  Mr Ts 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T either to 
accept or to reject my Final Decision before 7 August 2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2632829