K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bradford & Bingley PLC hasnt fairly compensated them for mis-
selling a mortgage endowment policy. 
background
Bradford and Bingley sold Mr and Mrs M a unit-linked endowment policy  alongside their 
interest-only mortgage in 1989. According  to Bradford and Bingleys records, the endowment  
was surrendered by Mr and Mrs M in 1996. In late 2018, they complained  about  the sale of 
the policy. They said (amongst other  things)  that the risks hadnt been fully explained. 
Bradford and Bingley initially defended  the sale. But when the matter  was referred to our 
service, it offered redress which it said had been calculated  in line with guidance set by the 
financial regulator for mortgage endowment complaints.  Mr and Mrs M didnt think  the offer 
was correct. They said theyd taken out a unit-linked mortgage rather  than an endowment 
mortgage. And that Bradford and Bingley had relied  on incorrect assumptions  when 
calculating the redress. 
Our investigator reviewed  the offer in light of Mr and Mrs Ms concerns  and found it to be 
fair. He explained that unit-linked  was a form of endowment policy,  so this didnt affect the 
redress. He was satisfied  that the redress was appropriate and in line with the financial 
regulators guidance. He also thought  the information Bradford and Bingley had relied on to 
calculate the offer was reasonable. For example, although Mr and Mrs M dispute that they 
surrendered the policy  in 1996, Bradford and Bingley provided paperwork from the time 
substantiating this. 
Mr and Mrs M still werent satisfied that the offer reflected the financial position  theyd be in if 
they hadnt been mis-sold the policy. As requested, their case has now been  escalated to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator reached  and for largely the same reasons
Mr and Mrs M say the policy was mis-sold  and Bradford  and Bingley accepts this. So all 
Im deciding is whether  Mr and Mrs M have  been  fairly compensated for this mis-sale.
The UK financial regulatorthe Financial  Conduct Authority (as its now called) set  
guidance on how to calculate compensation for mortgage endowment  complaints.  This is 
based on a comparison  between the customers actual financial position and the one theyd  
likely be in if theyd taken  out a capital repayment mortgage (and no endowment). 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M dont  think Bradford and Bingleys  offer reflects their loss. But 
having looked over the calculation, I can reassure them that its been done in line with the 
regulators guidance. This method compares what situation Mr and Mrs M would likely be in 
if theyd taken out a repayment mortgage  instead.  To work this out, Bradford and Bingley 
has compared how much  capital they would  have paid off under a repayment mortgage; how 
much this would  have cost them compared  to what they paid for the endowment premium 
plus their mortgage interest payments; and the surrender value  they received. Their  loss has 
been capped  at the date they surrendered their endowment policy. 
Ref: DRN28993242Its necessary that such a calculation will involve assumptions  as its comparing what they 
actually did against  a different, hypothetical course  of action. Im satisfied that Bradford and 
Bingley hasnt relied on any unreasonable assumptions or incorrect information. For 
example, although  Mr and Mrs M have  raised  concerns  about  the reported  cost of the policy, 
they havent provided any persuasive evidence to counter what  Bradford and Bingleys 
records show they paid.  The records show  they paid more for their endowment  policy and 
interest-only mortgage than they would have done if theyd taken out a repayment mortgage.  
Its offer includes a refund of the difference. This suggests that Bradford and Bingley hasnt 
made an assumption regarding this which  is detrimental to Mr and Mrs M. Additionally, the 
sales documents show Mr and Mrs M expressed  that it was important for them  to have life 
cover. So its reasonable for Bradford and Bingley  to assume  this would also have been 
purchased alongside a repayment mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs M have  calculated  what  they think Bradford and Bingley should pay them.  But 
this hasnt been done in line with the regulators guidance  guidance which  Im satisfied is 
appropriate to follow in this case. Additionally,  having reviewed the methodology theyve 
used, they dont appear to have accounted for the interest charged  on top of their mortgage 
borrowing. So overall, whilst I understand Mr and Mrs Ms disappointment,  Im satisfied  that 
Bradford and Bingley has offered fair and reasonable  redress in the circumstances. I 
therefore wont be awarding anything more. 
I do want to make it clear that the redress offered by Bradford  and Bingley covers  their loss 
up until the date they surrendered the endowment  in 1996. It appears that Mr and Mrs M 
requested to do this and to take a new, different  type of endowment  at that point.  This new 
sale constitutes an intervening act which  breaks  the chain of causation  between the lenders 
initial wrongdoing and the consequent losses. Im satisfied  that Bradford and Bingley was 
correct to cap their loss at that date within the context of this complaint. In any event, I cant  
see that any concerns  have been raised or looked into by Bradford and Bingleyabout the 
later sale.  So its not within  my remit to consider, as our rules only allow us to consider 
issues which the parties cant informally resolve  themselves.
Bradford and Bingleys offer
Bradford and Bingley has followed the approach set by the regulator  for calculating 
compensation for complaints  like this in a guidance  note called Handling  Mortgage 
Endowment Complaints, often referred to as RU89 calculations.  As per that guidance, 
Mr and Mrs M are to be put back in the position they would  have been  in, so far as is 
reasonably possible, had they not been  recommended an unsuitable  policy.  This means 
refunding the loss they suffered when comparing their financial situation now with the one 
theyd have been in if theyd been  sold a repayment  mortgage (capital and interest) in 1989  
over a 25-year term. 
Bradford and Bingley has agreed to pay Mr and Mrs M the loss identified by carrying out a 
loss calculation in accordance with the RU89 guidance. As explained above, Im satisfied its 
correct for Bradford and Bingley to cap their loss at the date they surrendered their policy.  
Its also agreed to pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of surrender. This will 
accrue up until the date of settlement.  
Ref: DRN28993243my final decision
Bradford & Bingley  PLC has already  offered to compensate Mr and Mrs M. My final decision 
is that it should pay this compensation, as set out above in the section Bradford and 
Bingleys offer. 
If Mr and Mrs M accept  my decision, it becomes legally binding on both parties.  So they 
wouldnt then be able to take legal action  in relation to any issues  covered in this case. On 
the other hand,  if they reject the decision, whilst that wont affect their legal rights, it will 
mean that Bradford and Bingley wouldnt be obliged to comply with my decision  so it would 
then be purely a matter  of goodwill  as to whether it honours the offer its made.  Legally,  an 
offer isnt binding until unconditional acceptance of it has been communicated  by the offeree.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2020. 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2899324