K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim he made  
under his car insurance policy because it applied  its keys  in car exclusion.
background
Mr E bought a car insurance policy  with UKI. In August 2018 he parked  his car and went into 
a shop to collect  a food order. Mr Es car was stolen  outside the shop. 
Mr E reported the theft to the police and his insurer, UKI. UKI obtained  a copy of the police 
report. The police reported that Mr E told them hed left his keys in the car at the time of the 
theft. So UKI declined  Mr Es claim as it said his policy  excluded  cover in these  
circumstances. 
Mr E believes UKIs decision is unfair.  Our investigator thought UKI had acted reasonably  as 
it relied on the police  report  which detailed the account Mr E gave on the day of the theft. 
Mr E didnt agree. He said when he gave his account to the police he wasnt in his right mind 
and he was terrified as his car had just been stolen. Mr E said he gave another  account to 
the police  after the initial phone call and he said the keys had fallen out of his pocket as he 
left his car. Because  it was a busy main road he didnt hear his keys land when they dropped 
out of his pocket.  Mr E believes it unfair  of UKI to rely on his first account to the police.
So Mr E wants  an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mr Es policy  with UKI says that it provides cover in the event  of a theft  but it wont  provide  
cover if: 
loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft if the keys and/or other devices 
which unlocks your car and/or enables your car to be started and driven are left in or 
on your car which Is unattended, or 
If your car has been left unattended and not properly  locked (this includes any 
window, roof opening, removable  roof panel or hood  being left open or unlocked)
I think UKIs policy is clear. 
I understand Mr E provided a different version of events after he initially  reported the incident 
to the police. But I think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to rely on Mr Es first account  as 
this is the one given just after the incident and so the events are fresh to recall. 
As Mr E told the police that he left his keys in the car (in the ignition) when  he went  to the 
shop to collect a food order, I think the circumstances meet  the exclusion set out under 
Mr Es policy.
Ref: DRN22910272I understand Mr E will be disappointed with my decision. But I think  in these  circumstances 
 UKI applied the exclusion reasonably when deciding to decline his claim.  This means I 
dont think UKI needs to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2291027