K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank  PLC, mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  when 
he took out a new credit  card in 1997. He says the PPI cover wasnt  properly explained to 
him and he never even  knew  he had it. 
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  this complaint  and provided a view that it shouldnt  be 
upheld. Mr H disagreed  and so its been passed  to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H specifically told us that he didnt know PPI had been added to his card and he never 
consented to it. But these events are now over 22 years old so its obviously possible  and 
indeed understandable  - Mr H just might not recall what happened during the sale.
I say this because  we asked Lloyds for a copy of Mr Hs application form which he used in 
1997 to get his new credit card. Having carefully looked over this, I think  Mr H was given the 
option of whether or not to have PPI and that he agreed to it during the application process.
There was a box about PPI on the application  form under a heading which  said 
Optional Features.  This invited the consumer to either tick or leave blank the box 
depending on whether or not they wanted to have any PPI cover.  I can see this was ticked 
on Mr Hs form and that he signed  nearby. So I think this is strong evidence that Mr H did 
want PPI when he applied  for his card and I think hed have known it wasnt something he 
needed to have if he didnt want it.
Its also my experience that any PPI incurred would have shown up on Mr Hs monthly  
statements. And I think if hed never  asked  for PPI, he would have wanted to know what the 
charges were for. So I think Lloyds properly obtained his consent.
Lloyds says it probably recommended this policy to Mr H. This means it was under an 
obligation to make sure it was suitable  for him. I think it probably  was.
This is because I think Mr H was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in some of these policies. The policy  cost around  £0.79 per £100  
of the outstanding monthly balance on Mr Hs card and Ive seen nothing that suggests Mr H 
would have found these monthly  charges unaffordable. 
Ive thought very carefully about his overall situation  and any sickness benefits  Mr H may 
have enjoyed with his job. I think these would have  been quite moderate in his case, but Im 
afraid they dont  necessarily mean  the PPI wasnt of use to him anyway. If he made a 
successful claim  on the policy, for example, Mr H wouldve been able to have his 
Ref: DRN20513312outstanding balance on the card reduced  by 10% each month for up to 12 months.  This 
wouldve been in addition to any other means  he had in place. 
So I think the policy was suitable for him.
Lloyds also had a duty to provide clear  information.  Obviously I cant say what  was said to 
Mr H or that he was told everything he should have been. But there  was information made 
available to him on the form about  the general  aspects of the cover. So I think Mr H probably 
had enough to make an informed  decision
What Ive seen shows  me Mr H specifically selected the PPI. Accordingly, I dont agree this 
policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint and I dont require 
Lloyds Bank  PLC to do anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2051331