K821x#15Complaint
Mr M complains Evergreen Finance London  Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) lent to 
him irresponsibly.
Background
My initial findings on Mr Ms complaint can be found in my provisional decision,  which  is 
attached to and forms a part of this final decision.
In very brief summary, I thought MoneyBoat  shouldnt have given Mr M loans 5 to 7. I invited 
both parties to comment on my provisional findings.  Neither Mr M nor MoneyBoat  have 
replied by the deadline I gave, or by the time of writing, so Ive gone on to review the case 
once more.
My findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr M nor MoneyBoat have put forward any new points, evidence or arguments  
they want me to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.  It follows  
that my conclusion is MoneyBoat shouldnt have lent Mr M loans 5 to 7.
Putting things  right
Because MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Mr M loans  5 to 7, its not right that he should 
have had to pay interest,  fees or charges on these,  or have them  affect his credit  file in a 
negative way. So to put things right MoneyBoat  must:
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on these loans.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr M which  were  
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made the payments,  to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C) Pay Mr M the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern  of borrowing for loans 5 to 7 means any information recorded  about  
them is adverse,  so these should be removed entirely from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest.  MoneyBoat 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN21349962My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above and in my attached provisional decision,  I uphold Mr Ms 
complaint in part and direct  Evergreen  Finance London Limited to take the actions set out in 
the putting things  right section of this final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN21349963COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr M complains Evergreen Finance London Limited  (t/a MoneyBoat.co.uk)  lent to him irresponsibly.
Background
Mr M took 7 loans with MoneyBoat between May 2015 and May 2017. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about the 7 loans in the table below.
Loan Date  TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest  
Repayment
1 22/05/2015 28/08/2015 4 £200 £68.80
2 22/09/2015 31/12/2015 4 £200 £68.96
3 11/01/2016 31/03/2016 3 £250 £112.74
4 02/04/2016 29/07/2016 4 £400 £156.67
5 05/08/2016 30/11/2016 4 £450 £173.46
6 09/01/2017 28/04/2017 4 £400 £149.04
7 02/05/2017 31/08/2017 4 £600 £235.64
Our adjudicator thought that loans 4 to 7 shouldnt have been given  to Mr M. MoneyBoat disagreed 
with the adjudicator and the complaint has now been referred to me to consider.  
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess Mr Ms applications for borrowing to check if he could afford to pay back 
the amounts hed borrowed  without undue difficulty. It needed  to do this in a way which  was 
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account  a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being lent, the size of the repayments and Mr Ms income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough 
checks might have been proportionate.
But certain factors might  suggest MoneyBoat  should  have  done more  to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for Mr M. These factors  include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid  being especially  high (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to 
meet a higher repayment  from a particular level of income); 
Mr M having a large  number of loans and/or  having  these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, 
or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid  (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
Ref: DRN21349964There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable  for Mr M.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr M could  sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money  to make 
the repayments could of course  be an indicator  that Mr M was able to repay  his loans sustainably.  But 
it doesnt automatically  follow that this is the case. The FCAs  Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  
states payments are sustainable if they are made without undue  difficulties and in particular, made on 
time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments  and without having  to borrow to make them. If a 
lender realises, or ought  reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments without borrowing further,  then it follows that it should conclude those  repayments are 
unsustainable.
Ive considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context, and thought  
about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
Our adjudicator thought MoneyBoat should have realised by the time he applied for loan 4, that Mr M 
would have struggled to repay further loans in a sustainable way. 
Loan 4 was the third occasion where  MoneyBoat had lent within a month of repayment  of the previous 
loan. But Mr M had been  making  his repayments on time, and these  were quite small  compared  with 
the income hed declared. And I dont think the gaps between the earlier loans were so small that in 
isolation they should have  given MoneyBoat any concerns about  giving  Mr M loan 4. 
The gaps between loans were  however  reducing over the period.  And by loan 4 there was a gap of 
only 2 days following  repayment of the previous lending. There was then quite a short gap of a week 
between repayment of loan 4 and loan 5 being lent. As our adjudicator  has pointed  out, the level of 
lending over this period  had also increased and by loan 5 was more  than double  the initial amount 
MoneyBoat had lent. 
I also think  Mr Ms pattern of lending  suggests  it is likely he had taken  out loan 5 to make up for a 
shortfall in his finances  following repayment  of loan 4. And with this pattern of borrowing extending  
over a period of almost 15 months, it doesnt seem likely  that his underlying situation was improving.  
Loans 6 and 7 then extended the relationship to around 27 months.  The level of lending had 
increased to £600 by loan 7, three times that of loan 1. 
I think  Mr Ms pattern of borrowing should have suggested  to MoneyBoat that he didnt just have  a 
short-term cash-flow  problem, but a persistent  shortage of funds  which he was borrowing in order to 
top up. High-cost, short-term loans of the kind offered by MoneyBoat are not suitable  for this kind of 
use. I think MoneyBoat should have recognised the signs
Mr M was likely using the loans in this way.
Looking at all of this together, I think  by loan 5 the point had been reached where  the loan history and 
loan pattern indicated that the lending  was likely unsustainable for Mr M. So I dont think  MoneyBoat 
should have lent loans 5 to 7.    
Putting things right
MoneyBoat shouldnt have  given  Mr M loans 5 to 7, so its not right that he should have had to pay 
interest, fees or charges on these, or have them affect  his credit file in a negative way. So to put 
things right MoneyBoat should:
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards  interest,  fees and charges on 
these loans.
Ref: DRN21349965B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr M which  were considered as 
part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made  the payments, to the date the complaint is 
settled.
C) Pay Mr M the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern  of borrowing for loans 5 to 7 means any information  recorded  about  them is 
adverse, so these should be removed  entirely from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest.  MoneyBoat should 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  explained above I intend to uphold  Mr Ms complaint in part and direct Evergreen 
Finance London Limited (t/a MoneyBoat.co.uk) to take the actions outlined  in the putting  things right 
section of this provisional decision.
I now invite  both parties to reply to my provisional decision by 9 December  2019. I will then review the 
case again.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2134996