K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco  Bank) didnt respond to 
her request  for an arrangement to repay  her credit card debt. She also says it failed to 
consider her communication needs.
background
Ms M was behind with her credit card repayments and above the credit limit on her card.  
She says she sent a letter to Tesco Bank  in August  2018, explaining  she was in financial 
difficulty. She asked  if Tesco Bank would freeze the interest on the account and agree a 
payment arrangement with her. She also asked  if Tesco Bank could keep all further 
communication in writing  as she has a disability which  makes  it difficult  to process  things 
discussed over the phone.
Ms M didnt receive a response to her letter. So, she sent Tesco  Bank a letter dated 29 
October 2018, enclosing her previous  letter (dated 28 August 2018) to chase for a response.  
She sent a further letter, dated  6 November 2018 where she complained that Tesco Bank 
hadnt responded to her previous two letters. She said shed received further demands for 
payment and a letter  saying her debt had been passed to a debt collector. In the meantime, 
over £100  of interest had been added  to her account. She felt that there was a lack of 
flexibility because Tesco Bank only allowed  people  to access their services  by phone.
In response, Tesco Bank said it hadnt received Ms Ms letter  dated 28 August 2018. It 
received her letter of 29 October on 7 November and her letter  of 6 November on 9 
November. It said its letters had gone out correctly  and interest and fees were  correctly 
applied until the account defaulted  and was terminated in October  2018.  The account had 
been passed to a debt collections agency  and at that point no interest or further  fees were  
added. It said it had removed her telephone  numbers from its system and it would ask the 
debt collections agency to do the same. 
Ms M brought her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into her concerns. 
Our investigator said she didnt think Tesco Bank was wrong to apply  interest and charges to 
Ms Ms account or to register a default.  But she didnt  think Tesco Bank  was mindful  of      
Ms Ms communication needs.  She recommended Tesco Bank award Ms M £200 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Tesco Bank disagreed  with our investigators view.  It said it didnt receive  the letter Ms M 
said shed sent it in August. It had provided  evidence of its correspondence  system, where 
all documents  are uploaded. It didnt believe it could have acted or made a reasonable 
adjustment sooner.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 November 2019 where  I explained why I didnt  intend  to 
uphold Ms Ms complaint.  In that decision  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont 
intend to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN25920482account handling 
Tesco Bank had a responsibility to act sympathetically and positively to help Ms M deal with 
what she owed, once  it was aware she was in financial difficulty. 
Tesco Bank says Ms M had been  over her credit limit and late paying on many  occasions 
since she opened her account. Its sent us copies of her credit card statements that show 
this. Its also sent us copies of various letters its sent to Ms M advising her of her arrears  
and urging her to get in touch to discuss her financial position. I can see Tesco Bank  also 
gave Ms M details of organisations that might have  been able to help her.
Ms M says she first made Tesco Bank  aware of her financial  difficulties in a letter dated      
28 August 2018.  But Tesco Bank says it didnt receive the letter and the first time it was 
aware of Ms Ms financial situation was on 7 November 2018, when it received her letter  
dated 29 October.  
Tesco Bank has acknowledged it received the letters  Ms M sent in October and November 
2018. But having considered the information  available, I dont think Tesco Bank is likely to 
have received the letter Ms M sent in August 2018.  On balance, I think the first time Tesco 
Bank was aware  of Ms Ms financial difficulties  was in November 2018.  
From what  Ive seen and been  told, Ms Ms debt had already been passed to a debt 
collections agency with no further interest  or fees being added from that point. And from 
what I can see, the interest and charges applied to the account before November 2018 were  
in line with Tesco Banks terms and conditions. 
I also think Tesco Bank acted fairly  and in line with its terms and conditions  when it 
terminated Ms Ms account, placed  a default on it and passed  it to the debt collections 
agency. Ms M hadnt  made a payment  for around  four months at this point. She had also 
been late with her repayments and over her agreed  credit limit on several occasions in the 
past. It wouldnt be reasonable  for Tesco Bank to allow the situation  to have gone on 
indefinitely.
Overall I think  Tesco  Bank has acted fairly and reasonably in the way its handled  Ms Ms 
account.
reasonable adjustments
The Equality  Act 2010 says that organisations have a duty to make  reasonable adjustments  
to remove barriers people  face as result of their disability.
Ms M says shes frustrated she wasnt able to communicate with Tesco Bank in the format 
she needed to. I can see the letters Tesco Bank sent to Ms M about the arrears on her 
account, did encourage her to contact it by phone.  But its correspondence address also 
appears on the letters. So I think Tesco Bank  gave  Ms M clear information to allow  her to 
contact it in writing. I understand that Ms M feels Tesco Bank ignored her when she wrote to 
try to make an arrangement. But as Ive said, I dont think Tesco  Bank is likely to have  
received the letter she says she sent.
Ref: DRN25920483Tesco Bank says after it became  aware of Ms Ms disability, it removed her phone numbers 
from her account so it will only communicate  with her in writing, unless she calls it. Its also 
given her details  of organisations she could contact who might  liaise  with Tesco  Bank on her 
behalf. 
Ms M feels that Tesco  Bank should  offer alternative methods of communication   such as 
email or online forms. But its not the role of this service to tell it to do this as this is a 
commercial decision.  Overall I think Tesco Bank gave  Ms M the information she needed to 
contact it in writing and it also took appropriate  action once it was aware  of Ms Ms 
communication needs. So I dont intend  to uphold this part of her complaint.
I appreciate Ms M has had to deal with some difficult personal circumstances as well as 
financial difficulty. But to uphold her complaint, Id need to be satisfied that Tesco  Bank had 
done something wrong. And from what Ive seen,  I dont  think it has. I know  this will be 
disappointing for Ms M, but this means that I dont intend to ask Tesco  Bank to pay the £200  
our investigator recommended for distress  and inconvenience.
responses
Tesco Bank said it accepted what Id said in my provisional decision.
Ms M said she felt Tesco Bank  had ignored  her communication needs until she got to the 
point of complaint.  There was no email address to correspond with it and it didnt respond to 
her letters until she raised a complaint. She hoped  Tesco Bank  would review  its systems and 
recognise the frustration  and distress she went through.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Ms M feels Tesco Bank was ignoring her letters.  But as I said in my 
provisional decision, I dont think it is likely to have received  the letter she sent in August 
2018. This means it wasnt  aware  of Ms Ms financial  difficulties or communication  needs 
until November 2018. And I think it acted appropriately  once  it was aware.
I understand Ms M felt frustrated that she wasnt able to email Tesco Bank.  But as Ive said,  
it isnt this services role to tell Tesco Bank  to offer email as a method of communication.
I know this will be disappointing for Ms M, but as neither  party as provided  any new 
information, I see no reason to change my conclusions.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN25920484Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2592048