K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains The National Farmers Union Mutual  Insurance  Society Limited  trading as 
NFU Mutual (NFU) undervalued his pickup truck and didnt handle  his claim properly when 
he claimed on his light goods vehicle insurance policy. 
background
Mr T was involved in an accident with another driver. The police removed Mr Ts pickup truck 
from the scene and took it to a recovery yard. Mr T contacted NFU to claim on his policy and 
let them  know where the police had recovered his pickup truck to. 
A few days  later Mr T received a letter from the recovery yard about  his abandoned pickup 
truck and the storage charges for it. Mr T contacted NFU again who said they would collect  
the pickup truck from the recovery yard and have  the damage assessed by an approved 
repairer. Mr Ts pickup truck then wasnt inspected until four weeks  after the accident. Before 
and after the report was completed  Mr T contacted  NFU multiple times to chase up what  was 
happening. He said the claim was taking  too long and he wasnt being kept updated.  
When the report on the damage was completed Mr Ts pickup truck was deemed beyond 
economical to repair.  Mr T told NFU he wished to agree a settlement where he was able to 
keep the pickup truck. NFU agreed  to this and while the settlement figure  was being agreed 
Mr T went to arrange the collection  of the pickup truck and arranged  with a local garage to 
complete the repairs. When Mr T tried to arrange collection he found out his pickup truck had 
been disposed  of and sold at auction. 
Mr T complained to NFU about the valuation given for his pickup truck, disposing  of his 
pickup truck  and poor handling of his claim.  NFU upheld  Mr Ts complaint, they said since 
the initial valuation  had been given  theyd received more information about  the pickup truck 
and increased  the valuation  to £5,500  to reflect this. They also offered £400 for the poor 
claim handling and disposing of his pickup  truck  without his agreement. Mr T didnt think  this 
was fair and brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Ts complaint  and didnt  uphold it. He said the valuation given 
was fair and in line with the relevant trade guides,  he also felt £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience was fair. 
As Mr T disagreed the complaint has come to me. 
When I initially reviewed the complaint I contacted  NFU to say I didnt think  £400  for the 
distress and inconvenience was fair and reasonable. I said for disposing of Mr Ts pickup 
truck and poor claim handling £750 seemed a fair amount. I also asked Mr T his opinion on 
the final valuation  of £5,500 for his pickup truck  and my thoughts on £750 for the distress  
and inconvenience  hed suffered. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN29458352Mr Ts policy says the most NFU will pay will be the market value of the pickup truck. The 
terms and conditions go on to say If the VEHICLE  is so badly damaged  that it is 
uneconomic to repair it, WE will settle the claim and the damaged VEHICLE  will belong  to 
us.
NFU hadnt  settled Mr Ts claim when the pickup truck was disposed  of. Theyd also agreed  
with Mr T he could  keep it. NFU didnt own the pickup truck when it was disposed  of and 
theyve deprived  Mr T of having his pickup truck back. Mr T said hes owned this pickup truck  
for 13 years and knows the history of it well. Hed also arranged with a local garage to carry 
out repairs from the accident  and from his complaint to us his pickup truck appears to have 
sentimental value  to him. 
Mr T said he was satisfied  with the final valuation of £5,500 paid by NFU and was happy to 
accept £750 for the distress and inconvenience.  NFU responded to me and said they felt 
£750 was high. In particular NFU said there  was no detriment  to Mr T from them disposing of 
his pickup truck because  it needed  repairing which theyd deemed uneconomical. They also 
said theyd been  generous in their valuation of Mr Ts pickup truck.
As Mr T is satisfied with the final valuation paid for his pickup truck, which is separate to the 
compensation for the claim handling,  there  is no need to go into the pickup truck valuation  
further here. 
Ive considered NFUs response to my initial thoughts but I see no reason to change them.  
NFU may not appreciate  the value Mr Ts pickup truck  had to him but this was a pickup truck 
hed had for many years and wasnt NFUs property  to dispose of when they did. 
NFU also agreed they didnt handle Mr Ts claim correctly. I can see they didnt contact the 
recovery yard when  they said they would, and there were  delays  in getting Mr Ts pickup  
truck assessed and also a lack of communication from NFU during the claim. For the poor 
handling of Mr Ts claim and disposing of his pickup truck NFU should  pay Mr T £750 for the 
distress and inconvenience hes suffered. I appreciate NFU thinks this is too high but Im 
satisfied its in line with other awards  of similar  seriousness this service  makes.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold this complaint and require The National Farmers 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited  to pay Mr T £750 for the distress and inconvenience 
they caused him. 
They should  do this within 28 days  of us telling it Mr Ts accepted my decision. If they pay 
later than this they should add interest to the compensation  at 8% simple per year from the 
date of my decision to the date they make  payment1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
1 If NFU considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a certificate showing  this if 
Ref: DRN29458353Alex Newman
ombudsman
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN2945835