K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about two payment  protection insurance (PPI) policies that were added to 
two credit card accounts by Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds trading at the time as TSB).
background
Mr W successfully  applied for two credit cards (a Visa and a Mastercard)  with Lloyds in April 
1994. 
When looking at the very limited information  (I have  not been able to see any sales 
documentation or read a detailed recollection  of how the PPI was sold), I cant be sure of 
when or how PPI was sold. Lloyds  has provided  records that go back to January 2000 and 
the PPI is on the account at this stage.  So I cannot be sure how or when  the PPI was sold to 
Mr W but I do know it was sold at some point between April 1994 (when the two cards were  
sold to him) and January  2000.
The PPI that was sold to Mr W was designed  to protect his monthly  card repayments if he 
wasnt working because  of accident,  sickness, unemployment or redundancy.
Mr W says Lloyds mis-sold the two policies.  He says he was not aware he had the policies 
and no explanation was given to him about  them. He says if he had been  made  aware of PPI 
he would  have declined  it. 
An adjudicator looked into Mr Ws complaint  and didnt think it should be upheld.  Mr W 
disagrees and so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case. 
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint for the following reasons:
As I have already  mentioned  neither  Mr W nor Lloyds can give me much  information 
about the sale. This is not surprising given  the amount of time thats  passed.  Ive 
looked at what  Mr W has said about  how the policies were sold  that they were 
added without his knowledge or consent. But it has been very difficult for me to 
understand how this would  have  happened with so little information available  about 
this sale. And in the absence of relevant documentation, a more  detailed recollection 
from either party or further information  to support what  Mr W has said,  I cannot fairly 
conclude on this occasion that the policies were sold as he suggests they were. I 
would need to see more information  to support what Mr W has said to conclude  
otherwise. 
I cant be sure if Lloyds gave a recommendation to Mr W to have the policies but 
even if it did recommend the PPI, I think the policies were  suitable for him anyway. 
Any claim under each policy more likely could be paid for up to 12 months. Mr W 
would have found the benefit from the cover  provided useful in an extended time of 
Ref: DRN21254612need (on top of statutory sick pay). Mr W also wasnt adversely  affected by any of the 
main exclusions  of either policy. They also seemed affordable for Mr W.
I cant see that Lloyds  explained about  the main terms as clearly as it shouldve 
done. But for the same reasons why the policies were suitable,  I dont think  this 
wouldve made a difference  to Mr Ws decision to buy them.
It has been very difficult for me to get an understanding as to what happened during  this sale 
due to the lack of information available. That said and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont  
uphold Mr Ws complaint.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the cover to Mr W. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of PPI to Mr W because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium for the policy that covered the Visa card) - so it should have told Mr W about 
that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  of the Visa card - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the 
cover to Mr W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium of the policy that covered the Visa card. I understand it 
has already done  this, so I dont award any further  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2125461