K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Financial Administration Services Limited  (Fidelity) didnt do enough to 
notify him of the closure of a fund he was invested  in.
background
The fund provider of a fund Mr M was invested in notified Fidelity in November 2018  that it 
intended to close  the fund as of December 2018. The fund was then closed and Mr Ms 
holding was sold on 11 December  2018  and held as cash  in the same  account as the 
investment was in. Mr M says he became aware of the sale of the fund on 10 January 2019.
Mr M has complained because he says he didnt know the fund was going to be closed and 
his investment sold and moved into cash until after this had happened.  Fidelity  didnt uphold 
his complaint. It said that it had sent notification  of the fund closure  online in accordance  with 
Mr Ms account preferences.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but also didnt think  the complaint  should 
be upheld. He said that Fidelity had notified Mr M of the fund closure through  his online 
account on 21 November  2018 and that email notification wouldve been sent to him about  
the document uploaded  to his online account  giving this notification.  
The investigator acknowledged that Mr M didnt  recall  changing how he wanted  documents  
to be sent so that this was by online notification. But the investigator noted Fidelity  had 
written to Mr M in 2017 indicating it was going to change  to providing paperless notification  
unless he notified  it that he preferred receiving notifications by post.  The investigator said 
that as Mr M hadnt told Fidelity he wanted  postal notifications it hadnt been unreasonable 
for it to notify him of the closure  of the fund online.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigator. He said the letter sent to him in 2017 informed him 
that important documents such as statements and transactions  would no longer be sent by 
post and would be on the website instead.  He said he was given reassurance  about this 
because Fidelity said he would get an email when  there was a new document waiting  online.
Mr M said that whilst  he accepts that important documents  such as statements would be 
held online he didnt  expect this to extend to notifications about the closure of a fund. He 
said he felt that the letter  sent in 2017 shouldve  made clear that the online notification didnt 
just cover statements  and transactions but also urgent  communications  requiring immediate 
action from an investor,  such as closure  of a fund.
Mr M said the email sent in November 2018  when  notice of closure of the fund was provided 
online simply said there was a new document from Fidelity. There  was nothing  to indicate its 
importance and as he had carried out transactions around the same time he had no reason 
to think it didnt relate to these. He also said that Fidelitys website doesnt make  it clear how 
to access important documents and there  is nothing  to show  there are documents  awaiting 
attention until he clicks on the documents tab.
Mr M suggested that Fidelity should  make investors  aware that all documents  are online, not 
just statements and transactions; make  it apparent on the website when there  are 
documents waiting  to be viewed; to make investors  aware they should regularly check the 
documents option on the website; and when a document is uploaded ensure the email  sent 
indicate the importance of this and whether it requires immediate attention.
Ref: DRN24898952As Mr M didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his complaint  form Mr M said that he hadnt  agreed to only receiving documents online. 
But in response to the investigators opinion he accepted he had received  Fidelitys letter  of 
July 2017 which stated:
Our website holds  electronic copies of all your important  documents,  such  as statements 
and transactions  confirmations, so from Monday 21 August we will no longer send you paper 
copies of them in the post.
The letter goes on to state:
There is no need to worry that you will miss something important  because  well send you an 
email whenever there is a new document waiting for you online.
Mr M has said that the letter shouldve made clear that all documents  would be online, not 
just statements and transactions. But the letter doesnt indicate that just those documents 
would be provided  online. It refers to all important  documents such  as statements and 
transactions, not that these would  be the only documents provided online.
I think Fidelity  made it reasonably clear that important documents  would  be provided online 
and this wasnt limited  to just statements and transactions. Mr M accepts that a letter  dated 
21 November 2018 was uploaded to his online account. This informed him of the fund 
closure and that if he didnt withdraw  his money  or move it to a new investment by 10 
December 2018  Fidelity would move  his money into cash in the same account   which  is 
what it did when Mr M took no action. 
Mr M also accepts  he was sent an email on 21 November 2018  informing  him there  was a 
document to view.  And when the fund was sold in December  2018 he was notified that the 
confirmation of transaction document was available by an email  dated 12 December 2018. 
But Mr M didnt check  his documents when he received these email notifications. He says 
that with regard to the 21 November email that he carried out some  transactions around the 
same time and subsequently  received email notifications on 19 November 2018.
He has suggested  that because he carried out transactions at around  the same  time he 
naturally assumed the email of 21 November 2018 was a confirmatory email relating to 
those transactions.  But given  he had already  received emails  about those transactions a 
couple of days  before its not clear to me why he wouldve assumed the email of 21 
November was anything  to do with those transactions.  He has provided no explanation why 
he didnt check his online account when he received the email that related to the sale of the 
fund in December  2018. 
I think it is reasonable for Fidelity to expect  customers to keep up to date with what is 
happening with their accounts  in response to emails it sends  notifying  them  there are 
documents to view online. So I think Mr M shouldve checked his account when he received  
Ref: DRN24898953an email notification there was a document to view on 21 November 2018. I dont think 
Fidelity is responsible for him not doing  so.
I note the suggestions Mr M has put forward as to how Fidelity could provide further 
information to customers. But I dont think it did anything wrong because the information it 
provided didnt  go as far as this. I think it is reasonable  for it to notify customers  that a 
document is available and expect  the customer to then check  their online account to see 
what this relates to.
I note Mr M has suggested that it isnt clear on Fidelitys website how to access  important 
documents. But given he has said that documents are accessed through the documents  tab 
on the website  Im not persuaded  that it is unclear where a customer  should go to when they 
receive an email notification that there  is a new document available. Mr M has said that the 
website doesnt  make clear there is a document to be viewed. But the customer is made 
aware of this through the email.
It is also of note that Mr M didnt fail to see the notice of fund closure or the transaction  
confirmation showing the sale of the fund because he had difficulty  accessing documents or 
hadnt been made aware there was a document to view.  He didnt see these documents  
because he didnt access his account to check his documents when he received email  
notifications.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2489895