K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  the decision made  by Fairmead Insurance  Limited to turn 
down their buildings insurance claim for subsidence. 
background
Mr and Mrs C made  a claim in 2018 after noticing  that their conservatory was showing signs 
of movement. Fairmead thought there  had been  subsidence damage caused  by the roots  of 
nearby trees  affecting the clay soil.
Fairmead turned down  the claim by relying  on an exclusion for defective design, as it thought  
the movement  had been caused by inadequate  foundations. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs 
C brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She thought the guidelines that 
Fairmead had relied upon to conclude that the foundations were inadequate  werent  
appropriate in this case. As such, she didnt think Fairmead had shown that the foundations 
were of a defective  design. As Mr and Mrs C had already had the conservatory  rebuilt,  she 
thought Fairmead  should reimburse  them for the cost of this, plus interest. 
Fairmead didnt agree  with our investigators  recommendations,  and so the matter has been  
passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy covers subsidence. However, this cover  is excluded if the subsidence arises from 
defective design, defective materials, or faulty workmanship. 
In relying on the above exclusion, the onus falls to Fairmead to show that it applies. 
The conservatory was built in 1998,  and had a foundation depth of 0.7m. When Fairmead 
carried out its site investigations,  it found  that roots were at a depth of 1.8m  below the 
conservatory. 
Fairmead has referred to guidance issued by a builder  of new homes (that Ill call N) in 
1998. It points  out that Ns guidance  says that foundations should be 2.4m in depth,  to take 
into account the type of soil and the nearby vegetation. 
Ns guidance only applied  to builders/developers working for N. I havent seen any evidence  
that the builder  of the conservatory  was working for N, and therefore had to adhere  to Ns 
guidance. So I agree  with our investigator  that it wouldnt be fair to assess  the depth  of the 
foundations in accordance with Ns guidance.
Whilst conservatories were exempt  from building regulations,  I agree  with our investigator 
that building  regulations are a reasonable guideline for what was considered to be good 
practice at the time. 
Ref: DRN20771852Fairmead has provided this service  with building regulations from 2000, but says the 
information relating  to foundation depths were the same  as the regulations  that applied in 
1998. This information says the depth of foundations on clay soils should not be less than 
0.75m.
Mr and Mrs Cs conservatory had a foundation  depth of 0.7m, so this was just less than the 
depth given in the building regulations.  However, I also need to take into account  that the 
conservatory stood  for 20 years, without any problems. Also,  the roots were found at a depth 
of 1.8m,  and so even if the foundations had been dug to 0.75m, its likely there would have 
still been subsidence. 
Taking all of this into account,  I think it would  be appropriate for Fairmead to accept the 
claim, as I dont think it has shown that the foundations were of a defective design.  
Mr and Mrs C had the conservatory demolished and rebuilt  after Fairmead declined  their 
claim, because this was the advice they were given by a conservatory company, and they 
were concerned that if the subsidence continued, this would affect the main house. 
Initially, our investigator thought that Fairmead wouldnt have taken that action, and instead  
would have arranged  for the movement to stop, and then put right the damage.  However, Mr 
and Mrs C then provided evidence from the company that replaced their conservatory (that 
Ill call B). B said that underpinning may not have been a viable  option,  and crucially that the 
cost of underpinning would have likely exceeded the cost of a replacement structure. They  
also commented on the poor condition of the conservatory.  
Fairmead thought  the cost of the conservatory rebuild was reasonable, but had concerns 
about the depth of the new foundations. However,  as the investigator has explained,  we 
arent looking at the foundation depths  of the new conservatory. Were only considering  
whether the original conservatory needed  to be demolished and rebuilt, given the 
subsidence damage. 
Fairmead says that B hasnt provided any engineering rationale behind its decision to 
demolish and replace  the conservatory. I note that Fairmead attended the property not long 
before the conservatory was demolished, so would have been aware of the level of damage 
to the conservatory  at that time. It has therefore  had the opportunity to provide this service  
with evidence from that time that might support its view that the conservatory  didnt need to 
be demolished,  but it hasnt done so.
In the absence of any evidence from Fairmead  to support that the original conservatory  
didnt need to be replaced and instead  could have  been stabilised  and repaired,  I think its 
reasonable to rely on the evidence provided  by B, which supports  that the conservatory 
needed to be rebuilt.  
I agree  with our investigator that Mr and Mrs C were  caused unnecessary worry as a result 
of Fairmead turning down the claim. I think £300  compensation  would be appropriate to 
recognise this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN20771853I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to reimburse Mr and Mrs C for the cost of demolishing  
and rebuilding their conservatory. Interest should  be added at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date they paid the invoice/s to the date of settlement*.  
Fairmead should also pay Mr and Mrs C an additional £300  compensation for trouble and 
upset caused  to them.
*If Fairmead considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr and Mrs C how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 March  2021.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2077185