K821x#15complaint
Messrs D have bought a complaint about the handling of a central heating  insurance policy  
with British Gas Insurance Limited.  
The complaint has been brought in joint names  but for ease of reading, I will refer to Mr D 
throughout. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter earlier this month,  the main part of which is 
copied below:  
Mr D contacted British Gas, as his boiler  had broken down. An engineer  attended on 
29 May 2018 and found the boiler  had been  flooded following some  severe  weather. The 
engineer said that this wasnt covered  by the policy and any repair  would need  to be paid for 
by Mr D. He said it had happened because the condensing pipe for the boiler had incorrectly  
been connected to a rainwater pipe. There was some heavy rainfall  which had then caused 
the boiler to flood, causing damage to some of the components. 
The engineer returned on 30 May 2018 and reconfirmed the diagnosis and provided a
quote for the repairs but also advised there  was no guarantee it would resolve  the problem
and recommended a new boiler at a cost of over £3,500. 
Mr D was unhappy with this. He thought this should be covered by the policy  and in any 
event, British Gas should  have noticed the problem  with the way the pipes had been fitted 
when it attended  to carry out annual  services on his boiler each year. 
Mr D has now had the work required to repair the boiler done privately (replacement of PCB,  
fan and gas valve) and wants the cost reimbursed. British Gas had apparently  quoted 
around £750 for the work  required and told Mr D it would  not guarantee that it would repair  
the boiler and he might  need to replace it. He is very unhappy with the service  provided and 
says British Gas was pushing him to buy a new boiler. He was also without heating and hot 
water for around two weeks and his father was recovering from major surgery.
British Gas doesnt accept that it has done  anything wrong.  It says the work isnt covered 
under the policy,  which excludes claims resulting from extreme  weather and flooding; and 
would not have been noticed during an annual service, which is intended to check  that the 
boiler is operating  safely. British Gas did, however, offer Mr D £50.00  compensation as a 
gesture of goodwill for the time Mr D was without heating and hot water.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and concluded that British  Gas should have 
identified the fact that the boiler  had not been  installed properly. However,  the policy 
excludes pre-existing faults not caused by British Gas. The adjudicator  therefore  considered  
that as the work to rectify  the incorrect pipework  would  not have been covered,  even  if it had 
been identified  earlier, he didnt recommend that British Gas pay for the repairs.  
However, the adjudicator did think that if British  Gas had identified  the problem,  it would 
have given Mr D the opportunity  to have it rectified  and the breakdown would not have  
happened. If this had happened,  then Mr D and his family would have been spared the 
inconvenience of their boiler  not working for the time taken to carry out the repairs. The 
Ref: DRN27291622adjudicator therefore  recommended  that British Gas pay £200  compensation for this (in 
addition to the £50 already offered). 
British Gas doesnt accept the adjudicators assessment. It says that the condensate pipe is 
outside the property and would not be checked during a routine service visit. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas has said that the annual service visit is simply to check  the boiler  is operating 
safely and it is not reasonable to expect its engineers to have spotted the problem with the 
condensate pipe. 
The Gas Safe Register explains  that an annual service would include a safety  check but 
also:
  
a full check  of a gas appliance and the engineer  is likely to take the appliance apart to 
inspect it. The engineer will assess the physical condition of the appliance, installation  
pipework, air vents and any flues for deterioration. They  will carry out performance tests  and 
take any necessary  remedial action.
Mr Ds engineer also confirmed that it would have  been expected to check  this during an 
annual service. 
Ref: DRN27291623I therefore agree that British Gas should have identified the problem with the condensate 
pipe during any one of the annual services  that it carried  out in the years  before the boiler 
broke down.  I also agree  that if it had done so, its likely Mr D would have had it rectified 
which would have avoided the breakdown of the boiler and the resulting distress and 
inconvenience. It also would have meant  that the components  of the boiler that needed 
replacing would not have  been damaged and so I consider British Gas should reimburse the 
cost of those repairs.  
While the policy wouldnt require British Gas to pay for moving the condensate pipe, and 
also excludes cover  for damage caused by extreme weather, I consider it should reimburse 
Mr D for these  repairs. I say this because if it had told him about the problem with the 
condensate pipe, I have no reason to believe he would not have paid to have that rectified 
and if this had happened, the boiler would not have  been affected by the heavy rain and the 
damage to the components would not have happened. I am aware that the other service 
provider repaired the boiler under a fixed fee arrangement that also included six months 
insurance cover. The cost was £49.98 per month for six months  i.e. £299.88 for the repair 
and six months cover.  As it was a combined  set price, the service provider is unable to 
breakdown the amount that was just for the repair. The amount paid by Mr D is considerably  
less than British  Gas quoted for the work. So while that service provider is not able to 
provide a breakdown of the cost of individual parts, I consider British Gas should pay Mr D 
the amount he paid in total.  
I also consider that the additional £200 compensation recommended by the adjudicator  is 
appropriate, given  that he was without  heating and hot water  for around two weeks until he 
could get the repairs  done privately, and having consideration of his fathers  medical 
condition and age. 
my provisional decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to pay 
Mr and Mr D:
 £299.88 as reimbursement of the repair costs;  and
 £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his 
claim. (This is in addition to any compensation already offered and/or paid.)
responses to my provisional  decision  
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Mr D has confirmed he accepts my provisional  decision and has not added anything further. 
British Gas does  not accept my provisional  decision.  It says the repair  work required was not 
covered by the policy and so it doesnt agree  it should pay those costs. It didnt install the 
boiler and it doesnt  cover  pre-existing faults. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN27291624British Gas has not added any new information.  I set out in my provisional decision why I 
considered that, while British Gas was not responsible for how the condensate pipe was 
fitted, it should have identified  the issue with the pipe and made Mr D aware  of it, at any one 
of the many  service visits it carried out. Evidence was provided that would  support  that this 
should have been checked  at those visits. If it had done so, Mr D could have had it rectified  
and the subsequent water damage  to parts of the boiler would not have happened.  It is not 
therefore relevant  whether the repairs would be covered by the policy but rather that they 
would not have been necessary had British  Gas carried out its obligations to Mr D properly.  
It is for this reason that I considered it should pay for the repairs to the boiler as well as 
compensation. I remain of that opinion. 
final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to pay Messrs D:
 £299.88 as reimbursement of the repair costs;  and
 £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of the 
claim. (This is in addition to any compensation already offered and/or paid.)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Messrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2729162