K820x#14complaint
Miss E is unhappy with how she was treated by a member of TSB Bank plcs staff.
background
Miss E visited a branch of TSB to make  a cash withdrawal. Unfortunately at that time, the 
branch didnt have  sufficient  change to be able to complete  the transaction in the way Miss E 
had requested. Miss E says the member of staff,  who Ill call S, spoke to her in an 
aggressive way and caused her considerable upset. Miss E also said the bank manager did 
little to prevent  the situation as it was happening and tried to bribe her afterwards to keep 
quiet by offering  her £25. 
TSB agreed  an incident happened in branch, but had a slightly  different  version  of events.  It 
did however agree the way S spoke to Miss E was unacceptable. It explained that 
appropriate internal action  had been taken and having further reviewed the situation  offered 
Miss E increased compensation of £50. It also said it felt that due to a number of issues,  the 
banking relationship between them had broken down and gave Miss E notice that it was 
closing her accounts.
Our investigator considered the complaint  but didnt think it should be upheld. He felt the £50 
offered to Miss E was fair and that TSB were  entitled to close  Miss Es accounts. 
Miss E disagreed with our investigator  and disputed certain details  of how the incident 
happened. She also emphasised the impact the incident had on her and the distress it 
caused. She also said she wanted S to be sacked.
The case  has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the statement Miss Es partner 
gave.
I dont intend to go into detail about  how the incident happened  in branch, or the order in 
which it happened, as I dont think it is relevant to my decision overall. I think its enough to 
say that an incident happened, which shouldnt have  and this caused  Miss E considerable 
upset. 
I also need to point out that it isnt within my power to tell TSB how to deal with its staff. As 
such I wont be telling it to sack S, as Miss E has requested. TSB has confirmed internal 
action has been  taken and I think that is reasonable in the circumstances. 
We arent here to punish businesses and where something has gone wrong, as it has here,  I 
would expect a business to look to put that right where possible. Usually this is by way of a 
compensation payment or other  form of gift and/or apology. Because  of this, I wouldnt 
consider the offer of £25 made  by the branch manager, or the suggestion  of cake or wine to 
be a bribe.   
Ref: DRN24536112TSB having reviewed  the situation  apologised and offered Miss E £50 compensation in total 
to reflect  the impact the incident had. Its clear  Miss E doesnt think  this adequately reflects  
the experience  she had.
The issue  here is whether  TSB acted fairly and reasonably in offering to put things right.
It isnt in dispute that the incident  happened.  Or, that Miss E had a reasonable expectation to 
be treated in a professional way by the branch and this didnt happen  on this occasion.  
When considering  whether  a fair amount of compensation has been offered, Ive thought 
about how quickly TSB dealt with the situation  and offered to put the matter right and also 
taken into account  how Miss E has said the incident impacted her.
Having considered everything, I dont doubt this incident was upsetting for Miss E but as Ive 
explained above our role is not to punish a business  where  something  has gone wrong. 
Overall, Im satisfied TSB has acknowledged a mistake was made on this occasion and its 
offer of £50 and an apology is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Miss E has also said shes unhappy about TSB closing her accounts. Having looked at the 
terms and conditions of Miss Es account, TSB are able to do this as long as it gives  the 
appropriate notice.  As its done this, I cant say it has acted unreasonably. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Es complaint  against  TSB Bank plc and find the 
£50 compensation  and apology she has been  offered, to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 October  2019.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2453611