K820x#14Complaint
Mr N says Metro  Bank PLC closed his account and wont  return money which  was paid into 
the account. 
Background
Mr N had a current account  with Metro.
In November 2018, just under £7,000 was paid into Mr Ns account. Metro  reviewed Mr Ns 
account and asked him to provide proof  of his entitlement  to the money.  Whilst it reviewed 
the account and waited  for Mr N to provide the information, the bank blocked the account.
Mr N told Metro that the hed transferred the money  from another bank account in his name,  
which I will refer to as bank B.  And said the funds were made  up of his wages  and money 
hed saved. Mr N gave  Metro copies of his statements  with bank B to show  he was entitled 
to the money.  
Metro wasnt satisfied  with the information Mr N provided so it contacted bank B, who told 
them it had some concerns over the activity on Mr Ns account  with them. And asked Metro  
to return the funds. Following this Metro decided to close  Mr Ns account. And returned the 
money to bank B.
An investigator looked into Mr Ns case. She said Metro  hadnt done anything wrong when it 
asked Mr N for information about the money  coming  into his account.  And said it had closed 
his account in line with the terms and conditions. Mr N disagreed.  He says hes out of pocket  
and wants to know what Metro did with his money.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Metro is required to have  measures in place to review  payments to comply with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. As part of its review process Metro  are entitled to ask a customer  for 
more information.  Metro explained that this was its standard procedure and I accept that it 
was. Thats  in line with what  most  banks would  do in the same  situation, and it enabled 
Metro to consider  what action it needed to take following the report it received from bank B.
When Mr N first contacted Metro about the payment he told the bank that the money had 
come from his account with bank  B and was made  up of his wages and savings. When  he 
brought his complaint to this service, he told the investigator that the money was made up of 
his wages and his credit card. The investigator asked Mr N on several occasions to provide 
his pay slips, but to date Mr N hasnt provided anything. More recently he told the 
investigator that the money came  from his business  overseas.  If as Mr N says,  this is where 
the money originated, I dont think it would be too difficult for him to produce paperwork to 
support his claim, such as wage slips. But so far, he hasnt done  so.
Ref: DRN27377012Ive looked at the paperwork, Mr N says he gave to Metro to show he was entitled to the 
money paid into his account.  And having  seen a copy of the paperwork, I can understand 
Metros concerns. Theres no reference on the paperwork about wages. And the payment is 
coming from an account in the UK. And not the country Mr N has suggested. So, I can 
understand why Metro  wanted to know about the funds and I can understand too why it 
didnt think Mr N had adequately explained their source.
Ive also seen the evidence Metro received from bank B, which it relied on to return the 
money. Having done so, I cant  say Metro has done anything  wrong  when it sent the money  
back to bank B. So, Im not going  to ask Metro to return the money to Mr N. 
Under the terms and conditions  Metro could close Mr Ns account by giving him 60 days 
notice. Having looked at whats happened here,  Im satisfied  that Metro  was entitled to close 
the account as its already done.  Ive also seen a copy of a letter Metro sent to Mr N dated 
20 November 2018, which informed him it would  be closing  his account. Im satisfied that 
that this gave Mr N enough  time to find another bank account if he wanted to do so. 
I know Mr N wants  Metro to provide the details of where it sent the money  it removed from 
his account. But the bank  isnt obliged to provide this information  to him. And I cant  add 
anything further  to the advice already provided  to Mr N by our investigator.  
In summary,  based on the evidence Ive seen,  I cant say Metro has done  anything wrong or 
treated Mr N unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont require Metro  Bank  
PLC to take any further stops to resolve  Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2737701