K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that BUPA Insurance  Limited charged two excesses  for treatment  under  
her private health insurance policy.
Mrs H is represented in her complaint by her daughter.  For simplicity Ill only refer to Mrs H.
background
Mrs H had private health insurance  with BUPA. The policy renewed on 1 November 2018.
On 18 September  2018 Mrs Hs daughter  called  BUPA to ask for pre-authorisation for her 
shoulder replacement  operation booked for 30 October 2018. BUPA authorised  the 
operation and some follow up treatment.  
Mrs H complains that BUPA charged her the £500  policy excess twice  as her treatment for 
the condition began  in one policy year and continued into the new policy year.  She said 
when her daughter  called BUPA it didnt  make clear that two excesses were payable.  If 
shed known she would have had all the treatment in the new policy year.  She wants  BUPA  
to refund one of the excesses.
BUPA said the policy documents were  clear that the excess  applied  each policy  year rather  
than each condition  and in the 18 September 2018  call it had clearly  explained how the 
excess applied. BUPA also said Mrs H called it on 28 October 2018 to change  the cost of 
the excess and it had explained how the excess applied at each policy renewal.
Our investigator thought BUPA hadnt been clear enough about the two excess  payments in 
the 18 September 2018 call. It wasnt able to provide a recording of the October  call. Our 
investigator said BUPA should refund one of the £500 excesses.
 BUPA disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs Hs membership certificate says the excess applies each year to treatment costs  for 
eligible treatment and refers to the how an excess or co-insurance works information  in the 
policy.  I think the policy information is clear that the excess applies each policy  year so could 
apply twice to a single course  of treatment if treatment begins in one year and continues  into 
the next year.
However, Ive listened to the 18 September 2018  call between BUPA and Mrs Hs daughter. 
BUPA's representative gives a lot of information  about what  it will cover and at various  times 
in the call Mrs Hs daughter says its representative  is talking too fast, needs to slow down 
and has to recap what she understands the representative means. One of those times is 
during the conversation about  the excess.
Ref: DRN29622502In the call Mrs Hs daughter confirms shes aware theres a £500 excess on the policy.  
BUPAs representative goes on to say that as the policy is coming  up for renewal be aware 
that if treatment continues into the new year your excess will apply. Mrs Hs daughter says 
shes still not following  the representative and asks whether the treatment would be covered 
if the policy wasnt renewed, to which representative  explains that it wouldnt.
I dont think the wording BUPAs representative uses in the call was clear  enough  that two 
excesses were very likely  to apply given  the operation was in the last two days  of the policy  
year and it had authorised  follow up treatment.
As Mrs Hs daughter had specifically called to discuss the detail of cover for her mothers 
circumstances I think it would have  been  reasonable for BUPA  to have  given clear  
information relevant  to Mrs Hs situation.
Mrs H says if BUPA had clearly told her daughter two excesses  would very likely apply she 
would have deferred all her treatment to happen  in the new policy year.  Given  shed told 
BUPA her shoulder problem had been ongoing for a couple of years I think thats likely. So 
BUPAs lack of clarity about the excess  in the call disadvantaged Mrs H.
BUPAs final response letter said Mrs H had called it in October 2018 to discuss  the excess. 
Its now told us the call was in October  2015 and it doesnt have the call recording. Its call 
note says it confirmed  the excess policy and member said she understood. But I still think  
BUPA should have  given clearer information  in the September 2018 call that two excesses 
were very likely in Mrs Hs circumstances.    
BUPA must refund one excess of £500 to Mrs H, plus interest as Ive detailed below.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require BUPA  Insurance  Limited to refund the £500 excess to 
Mrs H plus interest* at 8% simple from the date the excess was charged  to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.  
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If BUPA Insurance Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should  also give Mrs H a certificate showing this if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2962250