K822xcomplaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain that Nationwide Building  Society didnt correctly process their 
application for a joint savings  account. 
background 
Mrs J and Mr J, her son, opened a joint Loyalty  Saver account.  But Nationwide didnt 
correctly process the application which resulted in Mr J withdrawing money without Mrs Js 
agreement and signature. Mrs J wants this money refunded.
Nationwide accepted in its final response that the account application form clearly showed 
the account shouldve been  set up so that both Mrs J and Mr Js signatures were required to 
withdraw funds. But as a result of its error  it set the account up so either signature was 
required meaning either account holder  could  withdraw funds. As a result  of this error  Mr J 
withdrew a total of £7,796.14. It understands the money in the account was intended for his 
use and he has benefitted from the money.  As neither account holder has lost out financially 
as a result  of the error  it will not be reimbursing the money. But it offered £200  compensation 
for any inconvenience caused.
Our investigator noted Nationwide had accepted its error. And as a result  of his discussions 
with Nationwide  it had increased its offer of compensation by another £200 to a total of £400 
to reflect  the significance and impact of the error. Its also changed the account so that both 
signatures are now required.  Thats fair and reasonable. 
Mrs J remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  She doesnt  think  this is 
sufficient reimbursement for Nationwides error. Theyd gone  into the branch several times to 
discuss the best options for ensuring  this money  couldnt be accessed without two 
signatures. She thinks £400 compensation is disappointing.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has accepted it made  an error and didnt set up this joint account correctly.
As a result Mr J withdrew some money on his sole authority and without Mrs Js authority 
being obtained as it shouldve been.
The money in the account  was from an inheritance Mr J received and the money was 
invested for his benefit. So although  he was wrongly allowed to withdraw the money on his 
sole authority he has had the benefit  of it. As such theres no financial loss. And I cant  fairly  
or reasonably require  Nationwide to refund the £7,796.14  into the joint account.
I realise it wouldve  come as a shock to Mrs J to see her son had withdrawn this money and 
that the account had been  wrongly  set up. This wouldve understandably caused  her some 
distress and inconvenience. But Mr J wouldve  no doubt been aware  of the original  signing  
instruction on the account and that he was taking out money  without his mothers authority. 
And he couldve avoided  or at least mitigated  her distress and inconvenience  by not doing 
so.
Ref: DRN23619882As a result I think its fair for Nationwide to pay some compensation for whats happened and 
in particular Mrs Js distress  and inconvenience.  And its recently offered to pay a total of 
£400 for this. 
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think this is fair. And 
I dont think I can reasonably ask Nationwide to pay any more as Mrs J would like.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Nationwide Building  Society  should,  if it hasnt  
done so already, pay Mrs J and Mr J a total of £400 compensation.
Nationwide must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which  we tell it Mrs J 
and Mr J accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide  to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mrs J and Mr J a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2361988