K820x#14complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited (Very), has charged her 
interest on items she purchased on buy now, pay later deal.
background
Mrs L purchased items through her Very catalogue  account on 29 August 2017. This was on 
a buy now pay later deal for 12 months.  The balance needed to have been paid by 
31 August 2018  for no interest to be charged. Mrs L was going to be on holiday when the 
balance was due to be repaid. Mrs L says she usually repays her balances  using internet 
banking. When she looked  into using her phone abroad to make  the payment,  she found the 
data roaming charges  unacceptably high.
So to avoid  interest being applied, she sent Very a cheque  for the balance  before she went 
on holiday, which she says would allow time for her wages to go into her account and then 
the cheque would be processed by Very before the interest free period ended.
Very say they didnt receive the cheque, and so applied interest to the purchase in line with 
the terms of the buy now pay later deal. As soon  as Mrs L became aware on returning  from 
her holiday,  she called them and paid for the purchases. She asked them to remove  the 
interest as there must have been a genuine  error  in the cheque going missing.  Very werent 
willing to remove the interest and so Mrs L came to our service for help.
The investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as Mrs L didnt send the cheque recorded 
delivery  so Very hadnt done  anything wrong  in charging the interest after the missed 
payment. 
Mrs L didnt agree as she didnt  think  it was practical  to send everything recorded delivery 
and that she had proof that shed sent the cheque  off in good time, and it wasnt her fault 
Very didnt receive it. So the case  has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The amount of interest  Mrs Ls been  
charged isnt in dispute  so the issue Im deciding on, is whether the interest has been 
applied fairly. 
Mrs L says she was aware the balance needed to be paid by 31 August 2018 to take full 
advantage of the buy now pay later interest free deal. She says she put steps  in place to 
make sure the balance  would be paid while she was abroad on holiday,  as she usually uses 
internet banking but this wasnt a feasible option whilst she was aboard in a non EU country.
Mrs L says she couldnt  get to the post office  to send the payment  by recorded delivery. 
Shes sent a picture of the cheque and envelop she says she took before  sending it off to 
Very. While I appreciate the effort Mrs L has gone to in order to show  she sent the cheque, 
I dont think this is enough to persuade me the cheque should have been received. To be 
sure Very would  get the payment on time,  I wouldve expected Mrs L to have made  
arrangements to send  the cheque to them by a delivery method that wouldve guaranteed  
that it wouldve  arrived on time, especially as she wouldnt have been in the country to make  
alternative arrangements if it wasnt received.
Ref: DRN22028852Ive also taken into consideration  that Very has confirmed Mrs Ls usual payment method is 
VISA / delta and that sending a cheque  to repay  the balance isnt how shes paid before. 
And Ive thought about whether this a contributing factor as to why she didnt  pay on time.  
But Very have told me that this isnt the first time Mrs L hasnt repaid the balance  of buy now 
pay later items before interest has been  charged. So this isnt an isolated incident where 
Mrs L had to pay interest on items shes purchased  through her Very account.
So taking everything into consideration, I dont think Very have acted unfairly  in applying 
interest to these particular  items, as Im satisfied the required payment for them wasnt 
received on time to let her take advantage of Verys offer.
my final decision
I know the outcome  will be disappointing, but for the reasons explained  above,  I dont uphold 
Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Helen Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2202885