K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (when it was trading as Staffordshire  
Building Society) mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
Nationwide Building  Society is responsible for dealing  with this complaint. So, to keep things 
simpler, Ill just refer to it as the seller  from now on.
background
Mr Hs main complaint is that he was put under pressure to take out a policy  he didnt need. 
He said that he was given the impression that there was the chance of the mortgage not 
being approved if he didnt take out PPI so he felt he had no choice but to take it.
Mr H said he moved  properties 3 times and that each time there was an assumption  that the 
PPI would continue. He told us that it wasnt ever looked at again  to see if it was necessary 
or explained to him that PPI wasnt compulsory
Nationwide Building  Society didnt uphold  Mr Hs mis-selling complaint. But it refunded Mr H 
some of the commission Mr H paid for one of the PPI policies hed held.
Our adjudicator felt that Nationwide  Building  Society had dealt fairly with Mr Hs complaint 
and didnt think it needed to do anything more  to put things right.  
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. The complaint came to me to decide.  I issued 
a provisional decision.  
my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr Hs first mortgage (1988  1991)
Nationwide cant tell us how the policy was sold. Usually, Id expect the paperwork to show 
whats likely to have happened at the time and how the PPI was likely  to have been 
presented. But Nationwide  hasnt been  able to provide any documents  from when the PPI 
was taken out. I dont  think  thats surprising as this was so long ago. I wouldnt expect 
Nationwide to have  kept records for so long. Mr H thinks  he arranged this mortgage and took 
out PPI to protect his mortgage monthly  repayments during a meeting, so I think its likely 
thats probably what happened. 
In order to uphold  Mr Hs complaint Id have to see enough information  to be able to say that 
it was likely that he wasnt given  a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to the mortgage 
account without  his consent. 
Ive taken into account what Mr H recalls about the way he was sold PPI. But I cant uphold 
his complaint just based on what he says  I have  to look at all the available information and 
decide what I think is most likely. 
Ref: DRN29954252Mr Hs mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period  of time. His 
home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date.  The PPI 
provided a dependable  means of ensuring  the monthly repayments were  protected  even if 
he couldnt work. So, I can see why Mr H mightve felt PPI was useful. On balance, I think  its 
more likely that Mr H decided he wanted to have the benefits that the PPI offered and he 
chose to buy the policy.  
Nationwide says it didnt  advise Mr H to take out the policy. So it didnt have to check if it 
was suitable for him. But Ive looked carefully at whether  Nationwide  gave Mr H enough 
clear information about the PPI so he could  decide if he wanted it. 
Nationwide told us that it doesnt  any longer have a policy document  from the date Mr H took 
out this PPI in 1988. But it has provided  a policy  document which  was in use afterwards   
and I think its likely  that in all main  respects the policy that Mr H took out wouldve had 
similar terms and conditions.
Mr H was in paid employment and eligible for the policy. 
Ive taken into account what Mr H told us about  his sick pay entitlement.  The policy wouldve 
paid out for up to 18 months per claim on top of any sick pay. So it wouldve paid Mr Hs 
mortgage repayments for significantly longer than he wouldve received sick pay from his 
employer, providing  a useful benefit  at a difficult time. 
The policy wouldve cleared  the mortgage balance in the event of permanent disability giving 
Mr H long term protection over the term of the mortgage. 
And PPI wouldve also paid out if Mr H became unexpectedly unemployed.
I dont know if Mr H wouldve always had savings he could rely on to cover his mortgage 
monthly repayments if he wasnt able to work.  And as Mr H chose to take out this mortgage, 
rather than spend  money  he told us he had saved up, this suggests to me that it was 
important to Mr H to keep  his savings intact. Having PPI meant Mr H could keep  his savings 
to spend on other things  or to provide him with financial security.  Looking at the information 
Ive got about  Mr Hs financial circumstances at the time, I havent seen enough to make  me 
think that he couldnt have benefitted  from the policy. 
Its possible  some information Nationwide gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr H wasnt  affected  by any of the main conditions limiting  the policys 
benefits. So I dont  think more or better  information  about what the policy didnt cover 
wouldve put him off buying the PPI. 
I dont know if or how the policy costs  were explained to Mr H when he took it out. But it seems 
to have been affordable.   
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold in 
1988. But I think Mr H still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed been  better  informed as 
the policy gave  him useful  protection in his particular situation.  I dont  think its likely that 
better information wouldve affected  his decision to buy it.
This means  I dont  currently  think that Mr H lost out as a result of anything that Nationwide  
mightve done wrong in 1988.  
Ref: DRN29954253Mr Hs second mortgage (1991  2003)
Mr H took out a new mortgage  in 1991 when he moved house. Ive seen some of the 
mortgage and PPI paperwork for this sale. 
Ive taken into account that Mr H said he felt pressured into taking  out PPI. But I dont think 
the evidence is strong  enough for me to safely conclude that was the case, just based on 
what Mr H says. 
I dont know what was discussed about the PPI. But the mortgage application he filled in 
invited Mr H to say if he wanted PPI. He left that part of the form blank. I can completely 
understand why he mightve forgotten this now. But, at the time, I think he wouldve seen 
from looking at the mortgage paperwork that having  PPI was optional  and it wasnt a 
requirement of the mortgage.
Mr H completed a separate application to have the PPI. So I think that he decided he wanted to 
have the policy and it was added to his account at his request.  
Nationwide says it didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr H. But Ive looked carefully to see if it 
gave him enough  clear  information so he could decide  for himself if he wanted to have PPI. 
And if this didnt happen, Ive thought about whether having clearer  information wouldve 
affected Mr Hs decision  to take out PPI. 
Mr H was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
The policy covered Mr H for up to 18 months per claim. It wouldve paid out in addition to any 
employment benefits and protected Mr H for longer  than he couldve depended on getting 
sick pay if he was disabled or too sick to go back to work. This couldve been especially 
useful if Mr H had extra costs as a result of illness  or disability. 
And the policy wouldve paid out if Mr H had lost his job and become unexpectedly  
unemployed. 
The policy wouldve cleared  the mortgage balance in the event of permanent disability. 
So, I think its likely that Mr H might have considered the policy worthwhile to have in his 
particular circumstances.  
I havent seen  any information to suggest  that Mr H was affected  by any of the conditions  
limiting the policys  main benefits. As it appears  that he couldve benefitted from the full 
extent of the cover, I think it unlikely Mr H needed  better information about  the policys 
exclusions and limitations. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr H at the outset. But Mr H 
couldve cancelled the PPI at any time if he hadnt  wanted to pay for it. Given  his 
circumstances, I can see why Mr H might  reasonably have wanted to take advantage of the 
benefits this policy offered  him. Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Mr H wouldve made a 
different decision about  whether to take out PPI if better information  had been  provided.
This means  I dont  currently  think that Mr H lost out as a result of anything that Nationwide  
mightve done wrong in 1991.  
Ref: DRN29954254Mr Hs third mortgage  (2003  2009) (including a mortgage switch in 2007)
I havent seen  much information  about this sale. Nationwide  says that Mr H chose to transfer 
the PPI policy  he initially took with the 1991 mortgage (when that mortgage  was redeemed  in 
2003) to a new mortgage he took out in 2003 when he moved  house.
This fits with what Mr H has told us he remembers about his various  house  moves and the 
mortgages he took out. 
The policy terminated  in 2009 when this third mortgage was redeemed.  Nationwide says it 
sent Mr H a refund of £50.40 due to overpaying one months premium.
Nationwide has confirmed  this policy could be transferred. And I can understand why Mr H 
mightve wanted the PPI benefits  hed had set up for the previous 15 years  or so to stay in 
place and protect his new borrowing.  As far as I can see his circumstances  were  broadly the 
same. The policy continued to give Mr H the same benefits and it provided him with the long 
term protection he already had for his previous mortgages. Mr H continued to be able to take 
advantage of all the benefits  under the policy. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Nationwide doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr H paid for it. But Nationwide has already  offered  to give Mr H back some of 
the PPI cost. I dont  think it needs to do anything more. 
So Im planning  to issue a final decision that will say: 
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Both parties  have said they dont wish to comment further in response to my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that affect my view, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint  for the 
reasons I explained  in my provisional  decision.  
Ref: DRN29954255my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN2995425