K822xComplaint
Mrs K has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc mishandled her request to transfer her 
investment portfolio to a new service  provider.
Background 
Mrs K held a number of investments with HSBC  and used its discretionary wealth 
management service. In October 2016,  after a number of delays,  her assets were 
transferred to HSBCs new Premier  Discretionary  Management Service.  However, Mrs K 
became dissatisfied  with it. So, on 31 July 2017 she gave notice to terminate  her relationship  
with HSBC and instructed  it to transfer her investment portfolio to a third party, which  Ill refer 
to as W.
Mrs K experienced a number of delays and complained in February 2018. She was unhappy 
that it took HSBC  until 29 September  2017  to transfer existing cash  balances  and until late 
February 2018 to transfer the remaining investments. She said this was outside of the 
timeframes referred to in HSBCs terms and conditions.
HSBC acknowledged  its part in the delays and agreed the cash balance shouldve been  
transferred by 6 September  2017.  But it said the other delays Mrs K experienced were down 
to W and its custodian. It offered to pay interest on the cash  balances for a period of 23 days  
plus £400 for the trouble  and upset caused. The offer made in total was £1,024.82 (gross).
Mrs K didnt think HSBCs  offer fairly compensated her for her experience, so HSBC 
increased the compensation by £200,  offering a total of £1,224.82 (gross).
Mrs K didnt accept the offer and referred  her complaint to our service. She didnt  accept that 
any of the delays were  caused by W and believed she should receive interest on the cash  
balance for a longer period than 23 days.  She also thought the compensation of £600 wasnt 
commensurate with the value of her portfolio. Mrs K said because  of the delays in 
completing the transfer of the stocks,  shed lost the opportunity to reinvest.
Our investigator thought HSBC should  recalculate the interest  payable  to Mrs K. This was 
because he thought HSBC couldve transferred the existing cash balance  of £51,220.45  to 
W on 18 August 2017 (after some  in-flight  trades had settled) rather  than waiting for the 
outstanding stock to be sold. He recommended HSBC pay interest  as follows:
8% simple interest on £51,220.45 for the period 18 August 2017 to 
29 September 2017; and
8% simple interest on £68,757.21 (proceeds  from the sales  of stock) for the period 
6 September 2017 to 29 September 2017.
The investigator didnt  think he could hold HSBC responsible  for the remaining delays as he 
thought the problems appeared to lie with Ws custodian and HSBCs custodian. But in any 
event, he didnt think Mrs K had experienced a financial loss during this period as her assets 
had remained invested. He also thought the £600  offered by HSBC  was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances, particularly as Mrs K hadnt  personally been involved in chasing  the 
relevant parties  to complete  the transfer.
HSBC accepted the investigators findings  but Mrs K didnt agree. She made the following 
comments:
Ref: DRN20898642she still thought  she should receive  interest  on the cash  balances  for a longer period;
she thought  HSBC was vicariously  liable for its custodian so it should  still be held 
responsible for the delays  shed  provided documentary evidence  detailing the times 
W had chased HSBC  and the relevant dates,  which hadnt  been properly considered  
by the investigator;
she disputes that she didnt experience a financial loss  while  the stocks remained 
under HSBCs  control, they were frozen and werent actively being managed, so they 
couldnt be sold and the proceeds couldnt  be reinvested;
the issues with Ws custodian were resolved by mid-December 2017 yet the 
remaining stocks werent transferred until 9 and 22 February  2018;
HSBC didnt contact  her about  the delays  she first learned of the state of affairs 
after she received  a portfolio statement in January 2018, prompting  her complaint;
HSBC had caused delays at every  step, including  during the complaint process with 
it and our service meaning matters  are still unresolved over a year since the 
complaint was logged;
HSBC only agreed to pay additional interest  following the investigators  view, 
showing HSBC didnt  treat her fairly  when it initially considered  her complaint;
£600 is a derisory amount  of compensation  compensation should be 
commensurate with the value of the stocks,  which exceeded £1,000,000;
whilst  W dealt  with the transfer,  she has been significantly inconvenienced by having 
to initiate the complaint with HSBC and deal with this process.
The matter  was referred to me to make  a final decision. After  considering  all of the evidence 
provided and taking into account Mrs Ks comments,  I contacted both parties with my 
provisional findings. I said HSBC should  pay interest on the cash  balances as follows:
8% simple interest on £51,220.45 from 11 August 2017 to 29 September  2017; and
8% simple interest on £68,757.21 (proceeds  from the sales  of stock) from 
6 September 2017 to 29 September 2017.
I recommended this because I thought the cash balances  couldve been transferred within 
three days of HSBC receiving Mrs Ks instruction to transfer her investments, in line with its 
internal processes. The instruction was received  on 8 August 2017, so I thought  it was 
appropriate to pay interest  from 11 August 2017.
Both HSBC  and Mrs K accepted this recommendation.
I also thought  Mrs K couldve suffered further losses as a result of the delays in HSBC 
transferring the remaining stocks.  This was because  W wouldve been actively  managing  
Mrs Ks portfolio on receipt of the stock  if the stock had been sold and reinvested, the 
portfolio couldve  increased in value. For this reason, I thought it was necessary to fix a date 
on which the transfers ought to have been  completed by, and based on everything Id seen 
from both sides, I thought 14 December 2017  was a fair compromise.
I put this to Mrs K, asking  what  W would  have done  had it received the remaining stocks on 
this date. Mrs K asked W to respond on her behalf. W said it wasnt  possible to know what it 
would have done, so it said the only fair way to compensate Mrs K was to compare the value 
of the stocks on 14 December 2017,  with the value  of them when  they were  actually  
received and pay the difference.
Ref: DRN20898643However, as W had requested the transfer  in specie, I said I didnt think  it was reasonable to 
base a loss calculation on the difference in value between 14 December 2017 and the date 
the transfers were  actually completed. Instead,  I said I thought there  had to be a comparison 
based on the actual portfolio growth (if any) between  those dates  had those stocks  been 
sold and reinvested  elsewhere. So, I told both parties  that I intended to direct  HSBC to pay 
compensation based on how Mrs Ks portfolio would have performed if the outstanding 
stocks had been received on 14 December 2017, reinvested and grown at the same rate as 
the whole  portfolio, subject to W providing information about how the portfolio was invested 
once it arrived with them.
HSBC accepted this, as did Mrs K. She said her portfolio had increased considerably  in 
value since it had been transferred to W. So, she thought the value of the new stocks that W 
wouldve purchased  would most likely  have increased in the same proportion  as the general 
increase in value  of the overall portfolio.  She added that HSBC should  also be compensating 
her for the loss of interest on the cash equivalent of the stocks.
I told Mrs K that I wasnt going to be recommending  HSBC increase the award it had made 
to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays. I said I thought 
£600 was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
I also told Mrs K that I wouldnt be making any separate award  for what  she considered  was 
poor complaint handling by HSBC whilst it was investigating her complaint. I said I had 
considered as a whole how shed  been impacted by the delay in HSBC  completing the 
transfer and resolving her complaint. I also said I wouldnt be making any award  for what she 
believed was obstructive behaviour from HSBC whilst we investigated her complaint.
Mrs K made the following  final comments:
the £600 offered for the distress and inconvenience  caused wasnt fair or reasonable 
 the failure to complete  the transfer  in a timely manner  was a real concern to her 
and the sum involved had to be considered when calculating  the amount;
HSBC was in breach  of a number of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Dispute Resolution (DISP)  rules   it had failed to provide a resolution within  the 
relevant time limits and didnt deal with her complaint competently,  diligently or 
impartially;
HSBC had acted  unreasonably throughout  our investigation of the complaint;  and
she thought  HSBCs  poor complaint handling and conduct during our involvement  
was all ancillary to the initial  event she was complaining about,  so we had the power 
to look into it  the fact that it happened later wasnt relevant.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Ks 
complaint, but Im not departing from the conclusions Ive set out above.
For completeness Ill set out my findings in respect of the following complaints:
the interest payable  on the cash balances;
compensation for the loss of opportunity Mrs K experienced due to the delays in 
settling the stocks remaining after 6 September 2017;
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused; and
Ref: DRN20898644HSBCs poor complaint handling and additional  delays whilst the complaint was with 
our service.
interest payable on cash  balance
Mrs K felt whatever cash was available in her account couldve been transferred to W on 
receipt of its instructions  dated 7 August 2017. However, HSBC said the earliest it could 
have paid the cash was on 18 August 2017.
I think the cash balances  should have been  transferred by 11 August 2017 at the latest. 
HSBC and Mrs K agree  with this. So, the interest should be calculated and paid as follows:
8% simple interest on £51,220.45 from 11 August 2017 to 29 September  2017; and
8% simple interest on £68,757.21 (proceeds  from the sales  of stock) from 
6 September 2017 to 29 September 2017.
delays in settling  remaining  stocks and appropriate  compensation for the loss of opportunity
Much has been said by both parties  about who is at fault for the delays in transferring 
Mrs Ks remaining  assets. For the avoidance of doubt, Im referring  to the 11 HSBC funds 
that were transferred in February 2018,  outside  of the timeframes specified in HSBCs terms 
and conditions  60 business days for general  investment  accounts  and 30 business days  
for ISAs. The other assets were transferred within the relevant timeframes.
Mrs K says HSBC and its custodian caused the delays. Ive read and considered  the 
correspondence provided setting out the delays encountered by W and the attempts it made  
to move things forwards. This includes failing  to respond to emails,  and what  Mrs K 
considers unnecessary requests on HSBCs part. However, HSBC says that the main 
reason as to why it wasnt able to transfer  these assets was because Ws custodian didnt 
have an active account with HSBCs custodian and establishing this was what  held things 
up. Mrs K disputes this and says this issue was overcome  by mid-December 2017, meaning 
there were additional blocks  put in the way by HSBC thereafter.
Ive carefully considered  these points. Its clear that W not having open accounts  with 
HSBCs custodian contributed to delays  I dont  think its fair to hold HSBC responsible for 
this. But Ive seen  instances of HSBC  making requests for information that had already been 
provided and requests  for information being made sporadically rather than a comprehensive  
request at the outset. Each time a request was made, W replied promptly.  So, on balance,  
I think if W and its custodian had been  asked for all of the necessary information at the 
outset, without repeated  requests, the transfers ought to have been  completed by 
14 December 2017. I therefore think that 17 December  2017 would be a reasonable date for 
the reinvestment to have  been completed.
To establish if this delay  caused a loss, HSBC ought  to compare how the relevant portion of 
her portfolio  performed between those dates  with what the rest of her portfolio with W 
returned over the same  period.  If the portfolio with W performed better, HSBC should pay 
Mrs K the difference. W will need  to provide information on how the portfolio performed over 
the relevant period to assist HSBC with its comparison and calculation.  
Interest should  be added  to any loss at 8% simple from the 22 February  2018  to the date of 
settlement. This is to compensate Mrs K for being  deprived of this amount since that date.
Ref: DRN20898645compensation for trouble  and upset caused
Mrs K believes any offer of compensation  for the trouble and upset caused should  reflect  the 
size of her portfolio, which was in excess of £1,000,000. But this isnt a relevant  
consideration for any compensation  we might award for the trouble and upset experienced. 
Awards of this nature should take into account the actual impact of the mistake and the 
inconvenience experienced  by the customer.
Mrs K is being compensated separately  for the financial loss as a result  of the delays by way 
of the interest  offered,  so the £600 offered  by HSBC is purely for the impact on her 
personally. Having  considered everythings shes said, I dont think HSBC  needs to increase 
this sum. I know W had to do a lot of chasing to get the transfer  completed   but whilst it did 
so on Mrs Ks behalf, I dont think its reasonable to equate Ws inconvenience as Mrs Ks 
own.
Furthermore, whilst  it took until February 2018 to conclude the transfer,  it doesnt  appear 
Mrs K was personally aware of the issues  until January  2018.  I say this because  in her letter 
to us dated 31 March 2019, she said she first learned of the problem on receipt of her 
portfolio statement in late January 2018.  So, its difficult  for me to accept that these delays 
were causing her trouble and upset before then.  With this in mind,  it seems to me that £600  
is reasonable for the distress  she experienced from then until the transfer was concluded 
and redress was paid to her.
poor complaint handling
Mrs K said that despite her complaint being made on 7 February  2018,  it took HSBC  until 
3 May 2018  to provide  a response, which was outside of the eight-week  timeframe set out in 
the DISP rules. Shes also said that HSBCs conduct  throughout breaches a number of the 
complaint handling rules  under DISP  1. 
Mrs K accepts that breaches  of the complaint  handling rules under DISP 1 is a regulatory 
matter for the FCA. But shes  said that under DISP 3.6.4R I can take good industry practice 
into account when  making a decision  on a complaint. Mrs K says that resolving complaints 
competently, diligently and impartially and at the earliest possible opportunity,  is good  
industry practice.
While Im not making a finding on this point specifically, I have, however, considered  the 
impact of HSBCs  failings  as a whole, which includes the delay in putting matters  right.  And 
overall, I think the £600 offered is fair compensation for the delays Mrs K experienced.
I know Mrs K also feels HSBC didnt respond appropriately when our investigator asked for 
information whilst the complaint was being considered. Ultimately  it is for our service  to 
determine whether  businesses  that come under our jurisdiction are working with us 
effectively. We have  internal processes to deal with any delays we consider to be excessive 
or inappropriate and we can report a business to the FCA if we feel this is necessary. I dont 
doubt that Mrs K has found the experience frustrating. But overall, I think  the compensation 
outlined above  fairly reflects  her experience and the impact the delays have had on her.
Ref: DRN20898646My final decision
For the reasons  set above, Im upholding this complaint.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  pay Mrs K:
8% simple interest* on £51,220.45 from 11 August 2017 to 29 September  2017; and
8% simple interest* on £68,757.21 (proceeds from the sales  of stock)  from 
6 September 2017 to 29 September 2017.
£600 for the trouble  and upset caused.
Compensation for any investment  loss as follows:
oOn receipt of the required information  from W, HSBC UK Bank  Plc must 
compare the performance of the 11 stocks between 17 December 2017 and 
22 February 2018 with that of her portfolio at W over the same  period.
oIf this shows  a loss, HSBC UK Bank  Plc should  pay Mrs K this amount.
oInterest* should  be added to any loss at 8% simple from 22 February 2018 to 
the date of settlement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC  UK Bank Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc must  give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one. She may then be able to reclaim the tax from the tax authorities  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2089864