K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited acted unfairly  and unreasonably when dealing  
with his claim under a home emergency policy. He wants  his claim paid.
background
Mr S had a home emergency policy with Aviva, which covered emergencies  and 
breakdowns affecting  the electrics in his property. Mr S suffered regular power cuts at his 
property and following  the power  cuts,  his fuse box didnt automatically switch  back  on. Mr S 
contacted Aviva about the issue; he said initially it said the fuse box would  be repaired or 
replaced and then said this wouldnt happen.  Mr S also said that the first engineer  sent by 
Aviva was extremely rude and disinterested, and left without carrying out the other  work 
required.
Mr S complained to Aviva. It apologised for the lack of service from the first engineer  and 
paid £60 compensation for the trouble  and upset caused by this. Aviva said the work the 
fuse box needed would be an upgrade, and that wasnt covered by the terms and conditions 
of the policy. It said though  if Mr S had a report from an electrician to the contrary, it would 
consider it.
Mr S complained to us. The adjudicators  view was that Mr S policy only dealt with 
breakdowns or emergencies. The policy defined  a breakdown as a sudden  and unforeseen  
mechanical or electrical malfunction which results  in the unit or system not working,  and 
defined an emergency  as sudden and unforeseen damage to something in your 
propertywhich immediately exposes  you to a risk to your health,  or creates  a risk of loss of 
or damage  to your property or makes the buildings uninhabitableor  in the case  of electrical  
emergencies, being totally without electricity.  
The adjudicator noted that Mr S fuse box still worked, but it had to be manually switched on 
after a power  cut. This didnt in his view meet the definition  of a breakdown or an emergency 
under the terms  and conditions of the policy. He didnt think Aviva had unfairly  or 
unreasonably rejected  Mr S claim, or in initially telling Mr S the fuse box would be repaired 
or replaced  as the member of staff involved believed the fuse box had broken down; no 
guarantee was given  and it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on the view of its engineer. The 
adjudicator noted  that Mr S complaint about the first engineer sent by Aviva had been 
upheld by Aviva and thought the apology and offer of £60 was fair and reasonable.
Mr S disagreed. He said that his fuse box was broken but didnt provide any expert 
evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr S doesnt seem to be complaining 
further about the first engineer and appears  to be satisfied with Avivas  response on this 
point. The core of his complaint is about the fuse box issue.  That said, I think  £60 
compensation is fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused by the engineer.
Ref: DRN25581082The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Mr S didnt buy an 
electrics maintenance  policy  he bought  an emergency and breakdown contract. So unless 
the work  required meets the definitions  under  the terms and conditions  of the policy  of an 
emergency or a breakdown, Mr S doesnt  have an eligible claim.
Mr S hasnt provided any independent evidence from an electrician. Aviva has provided 
engineer comments.  The evidence available to me shows that the fuse box does  work,  it 
simply doesnt turn back on after a power  cut. Neither definition  of an emergency or a 
breakdown covers this situation and I think Aviva is being fair and reasonable in describing 
the work  Mr S wants done as an upgrade or improvement. I cant  say Aviva has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in rejecting Mr S claim.
And I dont  think it was unfair or unreasonable for Aviva to initially say if the fuse box was 
broken, it would repair or replace it, and then arrange for an engineer to inspect it. Aviva  
wasnt giving  Mr S a promise; it was trying to explain the terms and conditions of the policy in 
simple terms.  It remained able to rely on the expert  evidence it received about  the fuse box.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
24 October 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2558108