K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained to NewDay Ltd (t/a Aqua) about  his credit card account. He says it 
didnt lower the annual interest rate on his account in line with the promotional account 
opening offer.
background
In early 2014 Mr M took out a new credit  card with Aqua. The initial annual interest rate was 
49.9% but a promotional offer meant  that it would reduce by 5% each year for the first three 
years providing he made contractual payments  and didnt go over his credit  limit.
Mr M missed the deadline for several monthly payments and went  over his credit limit.  So 
Aqua didnt allow him the full interest  rate reduction  in line with the promotional  offer.  Mr M 
says the problems arose because of issues with Aquas  mobile app not working as it should.
Mr M is unhappy  the promotional rate reductions have not been applied to his account, and 
says if hed known  that was the case,  he wouldnt  have accepted credit limit increases on his 
account.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and recommended it shouldnt be upheld.  
In summary,  she said Aqua had not treated Mr M unfairly  as it correctly applied  the terms 
relating to the interest rate promotion.   She  also noted the problems Mr M says he had with 
the mobile app, but was unable to conclude Aqua was at fault.
Mr M disagreed. He responded reiterating  that the problems making payments had been due 
to failures with Aquas systems.  He explained that he had tried to contact Aqua but it had no 
telephone or online  presence  during the evening time. On occasions  where  payments 
couldnt be made using the mobile app, he made  the payment by telephone the following 
day. Mr M highlighted Aqua had refunded the late payment fees that were  charged because 
they acknowledged it hadnt  been  his fault.
As no agreement could be reached, Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review everything 
afresh and to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator,  and for broadly  the same reasons.
When reviewing a complaint if there is incomplete information or a disagreement  about  what  
happened, Im required  to decide what I think is most likely on balance.  In  doing that I take 
into account the wider  circumstances of the complaint. 
I appreciate why this issue is important  to Mr M.  The interest rate on his credit  card account 
was reduced by 5% in only one of the three  years  set out in the account  opening  promotion.   
So this means  that the effect upon Mr M is that his current rate is 10% higher than it 
otherwise would have been. Its clear that obtaining the rate reduction would be a 
considerable benefit to Mr M and so I think he would  likely have tried to ensure he was able 
to obtain that benefit.
Ref: DRN24337412Mr M says that it was his usual practice to pay on the due date and not before, so had 
Aquas systems operated  as they should the payments would have been made on time. He 
says he tried to pay, but was unable to through no fault of his own. Its not disputed the 
payments were made  late, and so for me, this is the key issue  which is central to the 
complaint.  
I cant be certain exactly what  happened or why there were  problems with payments being 
made on time, as there is no factual evidence to show this.  Whilst  I note what  Mr M says 
about online payments not working, there are several other  things which Ive also 
considered.
The same  error  happened  on several  occasions over a 2-3 year period.
Mr M hasnt provided a screenshot or physical evidence to demonstrate the problems 
he experienced.
There are no technical  problems recorded which affected  customers  generally at the 
times Mr M was trying to make  payments.
Mr M did make payments by telephone  the day after he says there  were  problems  
with the online payment  process.
Ive taken on board Mr Ms comments that he tried to make the payments before the due 
date, but I also note that its his responsibility  to ensure a payment is made on time.   
Particularly as he says the issues occurred on more than one occasion and he knew  that its 
not possible to speak with Aqua by telephone outside of working  hours.
Whilst I realise Mr M will disagree and likely be disappointed, overall Ive not seen sufficient 
evidence to persuade me that Aqua has done anything  wrong.  Our investigator  suggested  
the problems using the app could be as a result  of Mr Ms phone  hardware or internet 
connection. Whilst I cant be sure, this is a possibility  but I note there were are no problems 
affecting customers generally reported  for those times.
It was a specific term of the promotional offer that Mr M made payments on time and didnt 
go over his credit limit.  He didnt comply with that term and so I think  its reasonable for 
Aqua to not apply the interest rate reduction.  Although Mr M says he was not responsible  for 
the payments  being late, I cant be sure of that, and I think  after it happened the first time he 
would have been aware of the risks of making the payment attempt  so close to the due date 
deadline. So overall, as Im not persuaded Aqua has done anything wrong, it wouldnt be fair 
and reasonable for me to uphold the complaint  now.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against NewDay Ltd (t/a Aqua).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2433741