K820x#14complaint
Mr C is complaining about Legal and General  Assurance Society Limited  because  it declined 
a claim on his critical illness  insurance policy.
background
I understand Mr C has been  a member of a group critical illness  insurance  scheme  available 
through his employer since  1999.  The scheme was originally run by a different insurer but 
the employer changed insurers to Legal  and General in 2003.
Sadly, Mr C recently had a stroke. Legal and General didnt pay out because  he had a heart 
attack in 2001,  before  it started providing  cover. Its relying on the pre-existing condition 
clause in the contract that it says means  it doesnt have  to pay stroke  claims if a member  
had a heart attack before it started  covering them.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I didnt think this complaint should 
be upheld. An extract is attached and forms part of this decision.
Mr C didnt accept my provisional decision and made the following key points:
He doesnt  recall being  made aware  of the change of insurers  in 2003  or any of the 
policy terms being drawn to his attention.  
His heart attack in 2001 shouldnt be classed as a pre-existing condition. He was 
already a member  of his employers scheme, albeit the cover was run by a different 
insurer, at that time. His private  medical insurance, which  is also part of a group 
scheme through his employer, has changed  insurers and his cover isnt restricted  in 
the same  way.
He believes his claim was declined because of a term covering illnesses the 
policyholder "has previously received benefit  under the plan for".
He maintains the policy  wording is ambiguous and has referred  back to his analysis  
of this in his letter to Legal and General dated 1 May 2018.
Classing different illnesses as the same condition could lead to perverse outcomes. 
He questions what conclusion Id have reached if the policy  terms had said cancer 
and heart attack were  the same  for example.
He thinks that at some point  since 2001, he would have been  able to get critical 
illness insurance that covered him for a heart attack through an individual policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
Mr Cs response  to my provisional  decision,  my conclusions havent changed.
The policy is a contract of insurance  between Mr Cs employer and Legal and General. It 
was ultimately for his employer to make  sure he had access to details of the cover under the 
Ref: DRN26248462scheme and any changes to that, including a change of insurer for example. I cant 
reasonably hold Legal and General  responsible  if Mr C wasnt aware of these  points.
Legal and General started covering members of the scheme from 2003 and Ive seen 
nothing to indicate it agreed  to give continuous cover as if thered been no change  of 
provider. Again, the terms of the contract  were agreed with Mr Cs employer and it was 
presumably satisfied with the arrangement at the time. 
From reading its correspondence  with Mr C, I believe  the key reason  Legal and General 
declined his claim is the pre-existing condition clause. Ive already explained why I think  it 
was entitled to do that. I did consider  the points in Mr Cs email  of 1 May 2018 about the 
policy wording before reaching  that view and I dont share his view its ambiguous.  It clearly 
says heart  attack  and stroke  will be considered as the same  condition for the purposes of the 
pre-existing condition exclusion and specifically states:
if a heart  attack has been suffered prior to inclusion in the Plan, no benefit shall be 
payable for any future heart attack, stroke,  coronary  artery by-pass surgery, 
angioplasty, heart valve replacement or repair, heart  transplant or aorta graft 
surgery.
Thats exactly the situation Mr C has found  himself in and I dont think the policy terms leave 
room for doubt about what happens  in this situation.
I note Mr C believes treating different illnesses as the same condition could lead to some 
perverse outcomes and that may be true. But the situation Mr C hes described is purely  
hypothetical and isnt relevant to my decision on his claim.
In terms of the cover Mr C might  have been able to get outside his group scheme,  I said this 
might have proved  difficult after his heart  attack for sometime at least and I certainly think  it 
would have been an issue in 2003  when Legal and General started providing cover for his 
employers scheme. He may be right in thinking  he would have been able to get cover  at 
some point since then and thats something  he was free to explore if he wanted to. 
Notwithstanding the fact he seems  to feel his employer didnt do enough  to make him aware 
of the cover  he had, Im satisfied the policy  terms clearly explained the limitations  in view of 
his medical history.
I understand my decision is very disappointing  for Mr C and isnt the outcome he was hoping 
for. Hes been left in a very unfortunate and difficult situation. But, ultimately, I dont think 
Legal and General has done anything wrong. I dont agree the pre-existing condition clause 
is unfair or ambiguously worded and Im satisfied  it was entitled to rely on it in considering 
his claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Ref: DRN26248463Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26248464extract from provisional decision:
my provisional  findings
Mr C has made  detailed submissions in support  of his complaint  and Ive read and considered  these 
carefully. I havent necessarily tried to address  every point raised in this decision. Ive instead 
concentrated on the issues  I think  are central  to the outcome of this complaint.
I understand Mr C joined his employers group scheme before this, but the policy document its 
provided confirms Legal and General became the insurer and accepted risk under the scheme  from 1 
January 2003. The policyholder  was Mr Cs employer and it was ultimately  responsible for making 
sure details of the cover  being provided was made available  for scheme  members.
In rejecting his claim, Legal  and General made it clear it was not suggesting Mr C failed to disclose 
any health problems  experienced before it started providing cover. Instead,  its consistently said its 
relying on the pre-existing  conditions clause.
Unfortunately, its not been possible to obtain  a copy of the policy terms from 2003.  But Legal  and 
General has been able to provide copies of various editions from 2000 up to the most recent.  The 
August 2000  edition - the most recent before it began providing cover for Mr Cs employer   says 
under the heading exclusions:
1. Pre - existing conditions
No benefit will be payable for any insured  condition which the Insured Person  has suffered or 
undergone
(a) prior to the date of his inclusion in the Plan, and
(b) in respect of an increase  in, or the addition of another, benefit, prior to the date of the 
increase or addition,
or at any of those dates  is already suffering  from a condition for which a duration period is 
specified in the insured condition definition  (e. g. six months for Multiple Sclerosis). Nor will 
benefit be payable  for any insured condition  where the Insured Person  has previously 
received benefit under  the Plan for that insured condition.
For the purposes of the above, the suffering of a heart attack or stroke, or the undergoing of 
coronary artery by-pass surgery, angioplasty, heart valve replacement or repair, heart 
transplant or aorta graft surgery is considered to be the same  disease, e.g. if a heart attack  
has been suffered prior to inclusion in the Plan, no benefit shall be payable for any future 
heart attack, stroke, coronary artery by-pass surgery, angioplasty, heart valve replacement  or 
repair, heart transplant or aorta graft surgery.
The Insured Person will be deemed to have  suffered, or undergone, or to have been in any 
duration period  specified  in, an insured  condition  prior to any of the dates specified  above 
whether or not the insured  condition had been formally diagnosed, provided that a 
subsequent diagnosis confirms that the Insured  Person  was suffering, or undergoing,  or in 
any duration period  specified  in, an insured  condition  prior to the relevant  date.
If an Insured Person has previously, at any time, suffered  or undergone  any of the other 
insured conditions, no benefit will be payable  for Paralysis/Paraplegia.
From reviewing the subsequent versions  of the policy terms up to the most  recent, Im satisfied the 
wording of the clause is broadly consistent throughout these documents.
Ref: DRN26248465The gist and the effect of the exclusion is that Mr C isnt covered for conditions he had before Legal 
and General took over cover  in 2003. The terms go on to say that for the purposes of the exclusion,  a 
heart attack and stroke are considered to be the same condition. It then specifically says a member  
who suffered  a heart attack before cover started wont be able to claim for a later stroke.
Ive considered Mr Cs comments on the policy wording carefully, but Im satisfied its clear and 
unambiguous. I think this clause  directly applies  to this claim and that Legal and General  are entitled 
to rely on it. In saying this, Im conscious Dr K says Mr Cs heart attack and stroke are unrelated. But I 
dont think this changes anything  given  the terms are clear that no payment will be made for a stroke  
if the member had a heart attack  before  Legal and General started providing cover.  The terms dont 
require the two conditions to be linked  for the clause to apply.
Im aware ABI guidance  says critical  illness  insurance  should include cover for cancer, heart attack 
and stroke and the policy provided for Mr Cs employer  did that, although not all members  were  
necessarily entitled to claim for all of these  conditions. 
Pre-existing condition  clauses are a common feature of group critical illness  schemes offered by 
employers. Its an alternative approach  to an individual policy, where the insurer normally obtains 
information about the applicants health before deciding whether to offer cover and on what  terms.  
Where a policy (that normally provides cover for cancer, heart attack  and stroke)  is underwritten at the 
start, its quite  legitimate  for an insurer to decide to exclude  cover for one of these  conditions based 
on the applicants medical history. For example,  its common to exclude  cover for all or some types of 
cancer if the applicant has had it before. A pre-existing condition clause is just a different way of 
achieving a similar end.
I understand why Mr C feels hes been treated unfairly. But given he had a heart attack in 2001, I 
think its unlikely hed have  got further critical  illness cover on standard terms after that for some time 
at least.  So I dont think hes necessarily in a worse position now than he would  be if hed taken  his 
own cover  rather than joining his employers  scheme.  And I dont think either the policy itself or the 
way Legal and General  has gone about handling the claim runs contrary  to good industry  practice as 
set out by the ABI.
I also note Mr C has argued the pre-existing clause amounts to an unfair  contract  term, but I dont 
agree for much the same  reasons as Ive already  discussed.  Im also conscious the exclusion was set 
out, I believe clearly and unambiguously,  in the policy  terms. On balance,  I dont believe it created the 
sort of imbalance between the parties required for it to be considered an unfair contract term as 
envisaged by the law. If Mr C disagrees, hes free to pursue his claim in court  as my final decision is 
only binding on him if he accepts it.
I appreciate my comments will come as a disappointment to Mr C and arent what  he was hoping to 
hear. But on balance,  Im satisfied the pre-existing  condition clause was a legitimate term thats 
clearly and unambiguously worded. Because Mr C had a heart attack  before Legal and General took 
over the cover  albeit that this happened after he joined the scheme when cover  was provided by a 
different insurer  I think it was entitled  to decline his claim.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN2624846