K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (BG) service when he made  a claim 
under his Homecare  insurance policy and that it was in breach  of contract.
background
On 29 February 2018 Mr L contacted BG to repair his boiler as he had no central heating or 
hot water. The weather was particularly  cold with snow.  BG was due to attend  on 1 March 
and Mr Ls partner took time off work to be there  for the engineer.  On the day BG told Mr L it 
couldnt attend due to emergency appointments for vulnerable customers and it rearranged 
Mr Ls appointment for 7 March. 
Mr L says BGs delay caused  him and his girlfriend suffering, pain, inconvenience and 
expense. He detailed their difficult living conditions  including  having to boil water to wash  
and not being able to get warm when he returned  from his outside job. He bought two 
electric heaters to try to heat the house which he says werent effective but significantly 
increased his electricity bill. He said his living conditions were  so bad he paid to stay in a 
hotel for a night.
BG accepted it had provided very poor service  and offered Mr L £249 compensation for his 
overall distress and inconvenience.  
Mr L complains  that BGs offer isnt enough.  He says BG are in breach of contract  as the 
policy says it will carry out repairs within a reasonable time, and doesnt say it can cancel an 
appointment to give to someone even if they are a priority customer. Mr L says BG should 
have better  contingency  plans  and should  pay him considerable compensation for its breach 
of contract, his pain and suffering, his expenses and his time taken to deal with the 
complaint.
Our investigator thought BGs offer of £249  compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr L disagrees and wants  an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr L as he feels very strongly about his situation but I dont uphold 
this complaint. BG has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer. Ill explain why.
Mr L has particularly focused  on his belief that BG breached its contract with him, 
irrespective of any moral obligation  BG felt it had to prioritise vulnerable customers.
The policy says BG will:
carry out any repairs or visits youre  entitled to within a reasonable time, unless something 
beyond our control makes  that impossible  in which case well let you know as soon as 
possible and give you another time when we can visit.
Ref: DRN21825332In my opinion BG hasnt  breached its contract with Mr L. The extreme  weather was beyond 
its control and fundamentally that's why it couldnt attend Mr L in a reasonable timescale. 
The policy doesnt  specifically  say it can cancel an existing appointment to give to vulnerable  
customers. But given  the above wording I dont think the policy needs to explicitly give all 
reasons BG may not be able to attend a booked appointment.
However, whether  or not BG has breached its contract doesnt affect the amount of 
compensation I think BG should offer. We dont fine businesses. We don't generally  make a 
compensation award solely  on the basis of a contract breach. 
BG accepts it gave Mr L very poor service.  The issue I have to decide  is whether BGs offer 
of compensation  is fair and reasonable.
Its clear from what Mr Ls said that he and his girlfriend were left in very difficult living  
conditions and compensation  is due. I can only award compensation in respect of Mr L. Our 
investigator correctly explained  that as Mr L is the sole policyholder  we cant  award 
compensation for his girlfriends distress and inconvenience or lost wage.
Mr L says he paid £35 in total for two heaters. He doesnt have the receipts  but he provided 
BG with supporting  evidence for one heater. Ive seen the details Mr L provided about his 
increased electricity bill. The later bill shows an increase. But the earlier bill was for gas and 
electricity used in summer months  and the later bill included the particularly cold winter  
months so the bills arent a like for like comparison. It may well be that Mr L used more  
electricity in the additional six days  BG took to do the repair.  But I think its very unlikely that 
additional usage cost a substantial amount.  
Mr L says he and his girlfriend went away overnight  to a hotel to escape  the cold at home, 
have a bath and for a bit of cheering  up. Thats understandable but not a cost that BG 
needs to pay. Theres  no cover  for alternative accommodation under the policy  in Mr Ls 
situation. Even if there was cover, Mr L says the hotel  was a 200 mile trip from home so 
I cant reasonably say the expense was solely as a direct result of BGs poor service.
I dont generally award compensation for the time (or postage costs) a consumer has spent 
in making a complaint and there are no reasons for me to do so in this case.
Overall Im satisfied BGs offer of £249  compensation  is a fair and reasonable amount taking 
into account Mr Ls distress,  inconvenience  and to acknowledge the additional  expense  
I think BG should contribute to.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2182533