K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Santander UK Plc increased his credit card limit in September 2017 even 
though it knew  he had a health condition. He says it acted irresponsibly when it did this.
 
background
Mr S told us Santander increased  his credit card limit a few months after he lost his job. His 
medical condition  meant  he couldnt  make proper financial decisions. He was desperate so 
he used the increased credit but cant afford the repayments. He said he contacted 
Santander in either  June  or July 2017  to tell it hed lost his job and to remind the bank of his 
medical condition.  He contacted the bank again in August,  September  and October  2017.  He 
made a formal complaint in December 2017.
Santander said it hadnt done anything  wrong. It said it wrote  to him on 19 July 2017 to tell 
him it was going to increase the credit limit. The letter invited him to contact the bank if he 
didnt want this increase.  It told us it reviews customers  credit limits on a monthly  basis  and 
looks at balances, credit scoring  and the overall  management of the account. On that basis 
Mr S was eligible for a credit limit increase of £1,500. It said that prior to the increase,  the 
last contact it had with Mr S about  his medical  condition was in March 2016.
Our investigator didnt  think Santander  had been  irresponsible when it increased Mr Ss 
credit limit. And she gave  extensive reasons for coming  to that conclusion. But she did think  
Santander shouldve  done more than simply sending him an opt-out letter.  She thought  it 
shouldve followed up that letter  with a telephone call. Having  said that, she didnt think this 
wouldve made any difference.  She could see Mr S has had several dealings with Santander  
in the past and she thought that if Mr S didnt want the increase he wouldve told Santander.  
She went on to look at whether Santander had dealt with him in a positive and sympathetic 
way but concluded itd taken reasonable steps to help him with his financial difficulties.
Mr S was upset by her opinion. He said it didnt give sufficient weight to his circumstances or 
his concerns. And he thought his medical  condition was under valued. He said Santanders 
decision making process in assessing his eligibility for a credit limit increase was flawed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive considered if this credit 
limit increase was affordable at the time Santander offered it to Mr S and if it was 
irresponsible to make  the offer to him. And Ive also considered if it responded positively and 
sympathetically when  it knew he was in financial difficulties.
Mr S says Santanders process  to assess eligibility for an increase in credit  limits is flawed.  
But thats not something we can look at. As our investigator explained, our role is limited.  We 
try to sort out individual complaints between consumers and financial institutions where the 
consumer thinks he or she has lost out. We cant comment on processes which  apply to all 
its customers. Thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority.  But we can look at Mr Ss 
experience with those  processes and see if anything has gone  wrong  that has caused  him to 
lose out.
Ref: DRN27467992If a loan is unaffordable it means  that the customer  couldnt afford  to make the repayments 
at the time he or she took the loan out. The affordability checks  a lender should  carry out 
should be proportionate to the size of the loan and the cost of repayment. From the 
information it had at the time of the increase Santander thought the increase in the credit 
limit was affordable  and so offered it to Mr S. We cant  say that a lender shouldve  done any 
particular check.  I know  Mr S wont agree with me but I think  Santander reasonably 
assessed Mr Ss ability to make the required monthly repayments. 
Mr S told us he lost his job around  this time. And he said he was in contact with the bank 
several times over the next few months. That was the period  between  Santander sending 
him notification of its intention to increase  the limit and the date Mr S has given us of the 
increase. In those  circumstances I think its likely  that if Mr S informed it of his change in 
circumstances the bank would have taken  this into account. But the only record the bank has 
of Mr S telling them he had lost his job was towards  the end of October 2017. And that was 
after the credit card limit increase. So I dont have  sufficient evidence to conclude the 
increase was unaffordable at the time Santander gave it to him.
Ive considered whether it was irresponsible for the bank to have given Mr S the increase. 
Irresponsible lending  is not just about whether  he could afford  to repay  the credit  or not  its 
whether theres  another reason he shouldnt  have had the credit.  This will depend on his 
personal circumstances. But lenders  shouldn't refuse to lend to someone just because, for 
example, they have  a particular medical  history  this could be discrimination. So, lending 
money to someone  in this sort of situation isnt automatically irresponsible  it depends on 
their individual circumstances.  But it could be irresponsible to lend money to someone  
whose medical condition might mean they wouldve had problems understanding  what they 
were doing.  It might  mean  they lack insight into howre theyre managing  their finances.  
Santander was aware  of Mr Ss medical condition.  And it regarded him as a vulnerable 
customer. But I dont  think it had enough  information  to come to the conclusion  he couldnt  
manage his financial  affairs. I would like to reassure Mr S that Im not minimising  the 
difficulties he faces from his medical condition but as he explained to us, a formal  diagnosis 
was not made until December 2017.  And a medical  report from February  2018  says it is 
likely that he made  unwise financial decisions under stress in the past. But that was after 
Santander had increased his credit  limit. So I dont think  it was irresponsible  when it did this.
Now it has a much more  information about  Mr Ss medical condition and his financial  
difficulties Santander  has a responsibility to acting positively and sympathetically. Its told us 
it will arrange an appointment or a phone call to discuss various  options  to help him. If he 
would like to do this our investigator will assist him. I know  Mr S will be upset and 
disappointed with my decision but I cant fairly ask it to do more.
Ref: DRN27467993my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2746799