K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says business Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2000. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs H completed a separate  application form for the PPI. Theres no persuasive  
evidence to show she was told it was compulsory  or that she was pressured into buying 
it. So I think Bank  of Scotland most likely  made Mrs H aware that she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. I dont think it would be reasonable 
to uphold this complaint based solely on Mrs Hs recollection of events from almost 20 
years ago.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs H, and it seems to have been  right for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
I think  Bank of Scotland  couldve explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. But 
even if it had, I think Mrs H would still have  bought it. 
Its possible  that Bank of Scotland didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But Mrs H doesnt appear  to have been  affected by any of those things.  
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account Mrs Hs comments,  including what shes said about  her level of sick 
pay and savings. But these points dont change my conclusion. The PPI wouldve paid out 
on top of her sick pay and also covered her for unemployment for up to 24 months  per claim. 
Ref: DRN20604602It wouldve  protected her savings, stopping her from falling behind  with her mortgage  
repayments and potentially losing her home. So I dont think  her level of sick pay and 
savings wouldve prevented her from buying the policy, or that it made it unsuitable for her.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs H any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2019..
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2060460