K822xcomplaint
Miss S complains  that Lloyds Bank Plc didnt amend her address in line with her request and 
she says its sent correspondence to her old address.
background 
Miss S says she experienced problems when  she tried to update  her address  shes 
unhappy with the service  shes received from Lloyds  and doesnt think its offer of 
compensation is sufficient. Miss S told us:
she tried to update  her address details using online banking  but the system wouldnt 
let her change her address. She telephoned  Lloyds  and was told shed need to 
amend her address in person and visit a Lloyds branch.
she visited her local branch, but the bank didnt  correctly  update  her account details 
and it failed to update  the contact details on her other Lloyds Bank  accounts  and 
products.
shes frustrated because shes had to visit her branch several times and made  
around 10 telephone calls to get the matter  sorted. And she says its cost her time 
and money.
Lloyds complaints team have been  unhelpful   theyve given her incorrect 
information and not dealt with her complaint professionally  and she wants more  
compensation. Miss S says the bank gave her a written warning because of the way 
in which  she spoke  to bank staff, but she says her behaviour  doesnt  warrant  such a 
warning.
Lloyds upheld this complaint and offered Miss S £100 as an apology for the service  shed  
received and a further £27 in recognition of the additional costs shed incurred. It says it 
acknowledges the upset this matter wouldve caused Miss S and accepts the service it gave 
Miss S simply wasnt good enough.  And it confirmed thered been no loss of Miss S 
personal data  it says shes  chosen  the paperless  option, so no physical mailings  wouldve 
been sent to her.
Lloyds also accepted that Miss S hadnt received the service she shouldve done when she 
called it to progress  her complaint. But it said it had cause for concern about the way in 
which, during another call, Miss S had spoken  with another  bank employee.  And it told 
Miss S that she shouldnt  shout at or verbally abuse bank employees  and it warned  her 
that if it happened again it might  look to end its banking relationship  with her.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he thought it should be upheld. He 
explained hed seen information from Lloyds computer systems that showed thered been 
no data breach  although  Miss S address hadnt been updated across all the banks 
systems  the accounts in question had all been  paperless. And hed also seen evidence 
that the address changes had now been  made.
He told Lloyds hed listened to call recordings of Miss S conversations with Lloyds 
representatives. He said he thought  shed  been given a poor service and could see how this 
wouldve upset Miss S. He acknowledged  that this Service couldnt  tell Lloyds that it needed 
to maintain its relationship with a consumer,  but he expressed the hope that Lloyds would 
consider removing the warning it had placed on Miss S file. And he asked Lloyds to pay 
Miss S a further £100 in recognition of the trouble and upset it had caused.
Ref: DRN26416822Lloyds accepted our investigators opinion and agreed to pay Miss S an additional £100. 
Miss S disagreed. She says she wants £300-£400  in compensation because  of the costs 
she incurred, and she explained that shed  spent around £50-60  on phone calls alone. Our 
investigator spoke to Lloyds again  and persuaded it to increase its offer to take account of 
Miss S telephone  costs. Having initially offered £127, it increased  its offer by £133  to a total 
of £260; £200 for the poor service Miss S had received and £60 to recompense her for her 
costs.
Miss S disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. She says the bank should 
increase its offer further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having considered  the evidence, Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator  and for broadly the same reasons. And 
I think he set out the position very clearly  in his views, so theres very little I can usefully add 
to whats already been said. I realise  Miss S will be disappointed, so Ill explain my 
reasoning.
First of all, its important  that I explain my role isnt to punish businesses  for their 
performance or behaviour. Its to look at problems that a consumer may have experienced 
and see if the business, in this case Lloyds, has done anything  wrong.  If it has, we seek  to 
put the consumer back  in the position  they wouldve been in if the mistakes  hadnt 
happened. And we may award modest compensation that we think is fair and reasonable.
Most of the facts  in this complaint arent disputed.  Lloyds accepts that it failed to change 
Miss S address on all her accounts  when  she first asked it to. And it says she didnt get the 
service she shouldve been able to expect  when she first complained to the bank.  Miss S 
told us she incurred additional costs because of the additional branch visits and telephone 
calls to Lloyds that she had to make. And Lloyds accepts this is what happened.
Lloyds has provided  call recordings between its representative and Miss S. Ive listened  very 
carefully to all of them  and its clear that Miss S is deeply frustrated with whats happened  
and I think thats  understandable. I need to tell Miss S that Lloyds can decide who it wishes 
to do business  with, and that this is a commercial  judgement on its part  its not something 
with which  this Service usually gets involved.  However, in view of Miss S experience with 
the bank and the poor service she received  accepted unequivocally by Lloyds  I think  it 
should consider  again  removing the warning  it says it placed  on Miss S account.  I think  her 
tone and language were  understandable, given the circumstances  I dont think  she was 
aggressive or abusive, and Im sure if Lloyds reviewed the recordings again  it would  also 
agree. I dont think she was given  enough clear information by the two Lloyds 
representatives that she spoke with  the information she was given  appeared contradictory  
to me.
I understand the frustration and upset that Miss S experienced, however, in the absence  of 
any details about  her additional expenses, Im satisfied that £60 fairly reimburses her for her 
costs. And although the service she received was poor  her account  details  werent 
changed when  they should  have been  her personal security doesnt seem  to have been 
compromised. Im therefore satisfied that the suggested compensation of £200 is a fair and 
reasonable way to settle this complaint. 
Ref: DRN26416823I know Miss S will be disappointed with the outcome  of her complaint, but I hope she 
understands why Ive reached the conclusion that I have.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc should pay Miss S £260 in total to fairly  settle  this 
complaint. And Im going to ask Lloyds Bank Plc to pay this to Miss S, if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2641682