K820x#14Complaint
Miss N has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC wont refund transactions,  which she 
says she didnt authorise.
Mr N, her brother,  represents Miss N.
Background
Miss N says that ten fraudulent  cash  withdrawals  were made from her savings account with 
a new card and PIN, which she had never  ordered. The card and PIN were despatched  on 
16 October 2014 to an old address, even though she had told Barclays she had moved.
The fraudulent cash withdrawals were made between 22 October 2014 and 3 November 
2014 in the area where she used  to live. She said she moved  in 2012 and asked Barclays to 
change her address  at the time. She moved  again in October 2014. She said she didnt use 
her savings account often  and only noticed the disputed transactions  in 2018. She raised a 
complaint in March  2018.
She asked  Barclays for a refund.  She said Barclays was to blame for the transactions  
because it didnt change  her address in 2012 or 2014 and it issued a new card and PIN even 
though she didnt request them. She said when she contacted the bank in October 2014, it 
wasnt to order a new card and PIN, it was to update her address. 
Barclays investigated her complaint  and decided not to pay a refund. It said it hadnt made 
any errors. It had sent the card and PIN to the address which  it held for her at the time. It 
also said it had no evidence that she had requested a change of address in 2012 and that 
she only requested  a change of address in November 2014, after the disputed transactions,  
She ordered a replacement  card and PIN at the same  time. It also thought it was more  than 
a coincidence  that the cash withdrawals were made when she moved into her new address. 
It suggested she was spending on household items.
However, Barclays paid her £200  for not for the poor service  she had received from it.
Miss N wasnt  happy with Barclays decision so she brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into her complaint and decided not to uphold  it. The investigator  
decided that Barclays  had done nothing  wrong when it sent the card and PIN to Miss Ns old 
address because it was the only address it had for her. He concluded it was more  likely than 
not that Miss N authorised the transactions because:
the evidence  showed that she only updated her account details  in November 2014 
and not earlier
she had provided  copies of bank statements for 2013 showing her old address so 
she knew Barclays still had an old address for her. However,  she  still didnt  update 
her account details
she ordered a new card and PIN on 6 November 2014, within days  of the disputed  
transactions, which was unusual
she didnt raise  a complaint with Barclays until March 2018 but she had logged  in to 
mobile banking  in 2017 and would have seen the balance  in her savings account.
Ref: DRN29029142Miss N disagreed with the investigators view.  She maintains that she didnt order  a card and 
PIN in October 2014 because she already had one. She blames the bank for not changing 
her address  in in 2012 and in October  2014  as requested.
The case  has now come  to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the transactions,  the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  He also wrote a second  view responding to additional 
information from Miss N. Both Miss N and Barclays have read those  views,  so I wont repeat 
every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision.  However,  I can assure  
Miss N that Ive read the file, including her comments and evidence.
Having done so, Im afraid my review  of the evidence has led me to the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons.
Generally, Barclays can hold Miss N liable  for the disputed transactions  if the evidence  
suggests that its more  likely than not that she made or authorised them  herself. 
Im satisfied from the technical  evidence that the disputed withdrawals were made with the 
card and PIN which were  posted on 16 October 2014. But the regulations  relevant to this 
case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Barclays  to hold Miss N liable.  So I also 
need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she 
authorised the transactions. 
Miss N said she didnt  receive the card and PIN and wasnt living at the address to which 
they were sent.  So she couldnt have made the disputed cash  withdrawals.
Barclays and Miss N disagree over whether she ordered a card and PIN in October  2014.  
Barclays' notes only record that a PIN was requested and that the new card was time 
triggered. Miss N told us she didnt need  a new card because she already had one. 
However, in her letter to Barclays dated 20 November  2018, she said she requested a card 
and PIN but Barclays sent it to the old address. Ultimately, it might be irrelevant who ordered  
the card since the main  problem is the address.
The card and PIN were  posted to an old address. Miss N moved to a new address in 2012. 
Ive seen official documents showing  her address in 2012.  Im satisfied she was living  at a 
new address. 
It was Miss Ns responsibility, under the terms and conditions  for the account,  to keep her 
details up to date.  She says she did.
Ref: DRN29029143However, Barclays said it has no evidence  that she updated her account details in 2012 or in 
October 2014. This doesnt mean she didnt go into a branch and tell the counter staff she 
was moving. Its always possible the bank didnt  update her details but I dont think this is 
what happened. If she went into a local branch to update her details, then I would expect  the 
branch staff to do this electronically for all her accounts while  she waited. 
But even if Barclays didnt  change her address, I would  still expect  Miss B to notice that she 
wasnt receiving statements and then to ask the bank  why it wasnt  sending  her any. 
She said she was only receiving her current account  statements. So she believed the 
address was only changed for her current account. She provided us with a couple of 
statements for 2013. The statements are for her current account  and her saver account. And 
there is a summary  of all her accounts.   I can see that these statements were sent to her old 
address, not where she was living at the time. She said she asked Barclays  to send her the 
saver statements when  she raised  her complaint. She later told us she didnt check her 
statements at the time which suggests she was receiving statements.
However, she also sent Barclays a copy of her current account statement for September  to 
October 2014 showing transactions made in the area she was living.  The address on this 
statement was the old address. If she had these statements, then she must  have been 
receiving them.
I dont doubt she was living elsewhere. Either someone was forwarding her post or she still 
had links with the old address. Or, if Barclays gave her the statements in 2018,  then I come 
back to the question: why didnt she tell Barclays she wasnt  receiving any statements?
Based on the evidence,  I think its more likely  Miss N didnt  update her account  details in 
2012 and this was probably because she still had a connection with the old address. I also 
note that she didnt go to the police, which would have been an obvious step to take if she 
had an address for the person using her card.  
In these circumstances, I dont consider that Barclays  did anything wrong when it sent the 
card and PIN to her old address. 
Also, there were a number of inconsistences and confusion in her evidence. This wasnt  
helped by her brothers interventions. Although he tried to help, the facts kept changing. She 
had insisted she didnt  order  a new card and PIN in October 2014 because  she already had 
one (even  though she told the bank she requested them). Yet, she ordered  a new card and 
PIN for the saver account on 6 November 2014,  within days of the last disputed  transaction.  
I dont think this is just a coincidence.
She said she noticed the disputed transactions in 2018 when she wanted to buy furniture for 
her new place (the place  she moved  to in October 2014). However, she was logging on to 
her mobile banking throughout 2017.  She would have seen the dramatic fall in the balance 
from £2,523 to just £13.
She started  receiving statements at her current address from November/December  2014.  
Ive seen a statement for December  2013 to December 2014,  sent to her current  address.  
The disputed transactions and the £13 balance are clear to read. Yet, Miss N didnt raise  a 
complaint with Barclays until March 2018  over two years  later.
Ref: DRN29029144I accept that some discrepancies might just come down to language. However, after 
considering all the evidence, I can only conclude that Miss N made the transactions. 
Alternatively, someone she knew used her card.  She might be protecting  this person. But 
even if she consented  to them using her card, she is still treated as having authorised the 
disputed transactions.  It follows  that Barclays is entitled to hold her liable for the 
transactions.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news but I hope  the reasons for my decision are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2902914