K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complained that Northern  Bank  Limited (NBL)  mis-sold  mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to them in late 1991.  
background
I issued a provisional decision (PD), summary  attached below, in July 2019, setting out why I 
thought the complaint should  be upheld.  In this I asked both parties to provide any further 
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
my findings
I explained in my PD that Mr and Mrs T had quite a few financial products with NBL,  over 
many years. These comprised of mortgage borrowing, personal loans and credit  cards. But 
essentially, I narrowed all these down  to one outstanding PPI sale which  is now the subject 
of this complaint.
We now know this because Ive seen evidence that most of Mr and Mrs Ts other  NBL 
financial products  either didnt have PPI  because  it was declined  by them  (accounts  ending 
044, 780, 433, 313, and 524)  or where  PPI was no longer being sold by NBL,  it having  
been withdrawn  from sale (account ending 826).  I also understand one unrelated loan PPI 
complaint was upheld by NBL. 
The remaining  account now being  complained  of, where PPI was sold, was with a mortgage 
account taken  out in late 1991 (account ending in 637). NBL says its computer records  show 
that Mr and Mrs T purchased a PPI policy for this in a sole name. Whilst there are some 
uncertainties about some  details due to the age of the sale, it seems this PPI policy  probably 
covered Mr T only; in the event of him being unable to work or losing his job.
The general thrust of my PD was that I saw evidence  appearing to show that Mr T already 
had a PPI-type  policy in place to protect his mortgage repayments at the time of this 1991 
NBL sale.  Hed had this existing policy since the late 1980s and I was shown evidence  of its 
renewal and continued existence throughout the 1990s. This policy  was up and running  at 
the time NBL sold him the PPI hes now complaining about. So in effect, this other policy  
means Mr T was covered twice for the same  eventuality.
It was on this basis I recommended  that Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld.
Im pleased to say weve had a response to my PD from NBL which  accepts my provisional 
decision in favour  of Mr and Mrs T for this policy. And having reconsidered all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint, theres  no reason for me to change the findings  I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
what I think NBL should do to put matters  right
NBL should  put Mr and Mrs T in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. It
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs T the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Ref: DRN26772522Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get they get 
the amount back. The rate of interest  is 15% a year before April 1993  and 8% 
after that .
If Mr and Mrs T made  any successful claims under the PPI policy NBL can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NBL to take off tax from this interest.  It must  give Mr and Mrs T a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and require  Northern Bank Limited to pay the 
compensation as outlined  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26772523copy  provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs T complained that Northern  Bank Limited (NBL) mis-sold mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to them in late 1991. 
background
Id like to place on record how very sorry I am that this complaint has been with us for so long. Part of 
this has been due to a legal  matter that has affected cases like this one. Nevertheless, I apologise  for 
how long its taken for this matter to come  before an ombudsman.
Our last adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld. But Mr and Mrs T 
disagreed and asked for it to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Im currently thinking  about upholding  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
It seems Mr and Mrs T had quite a few financial products with NBL, extending out over many years. 
These comprised of mortgage borrowing, personal loans  and credit cards. But essentially, we can 
narrow all these down  to one outstanding PPI sale which is now the subject of this complaint.
We now know  this because Ive seen  evidence  that most of Mr and Mrs Ts other NBL financial 
products either didnt have PPI  because it was declined  by them  (accounts ending 044, 780, 433, 
313, and 524)  or where  PPI was no longer being sold by NBL, it having  been withdrawn from sale 
(account ending  826). I also understand one unrelated loan which did have  PPI was upheld by NBL. 
The remaining account now being complained  of, where PPI was sold, was with a mortgage account 
taken out in late 1991  (account ending  in 637). NBL says its computer records show that Mr and Mrs 
T purchased a single cover PPI policy  for this in a sole name. Whilst  there are some  uncertainties 
about some  details due to the age of the sale, it seems this PPI policy probably covered Mr T only;  in 
the event of him being unable  to work  or losing his job.
Mr and Mrs Ts main  points of complaint
Mr and Mrs T put forward the following  points in support  of their complaint.  
The first is that they never wanted this PPI and didnt  know it had been added to their mortgage.  To 
support this Mr T says they specifically  declined the PPI at the time of the mortgage discussion and 
they were never aware it had been added to their mortgage. By way of further demonstrating this 
point, Mr T told us when his and Mrs Ts mortgage ended the PPI appears to have continued for 
several more years even though the mortgage had been paid off. He says this shows they were 
completely unaware of it and were  surprised  to find it had been  in place for such  a long time.
Mr T also explained that he and Mrs T didnt have PPI with any other NBL accounts  (presumably, with 
the exception of one which was mis-sold)  even though they had quite a few. He says this also tends 
to show  he and Mrs T wouldnt have wanted this PPI policy.
Finally, Mr T says they simply didnt need this PPI because he and Mrs T already  had very good 
forms of protection with their jobs and also had other financial means at their disposal. 
Ref: DRN26772524What I think  about these points of complaint
Ive given  careful consideration to all these issues. None of them   on their own  would make me to 
uphold this complaint but they do have  some  relevance. 
Its not unheard  of, for example, that consumers  sometimes might want to protect  only part of their 
borrowing, or indeed one loan as opposed to another. So I dont completely  agree with Mr T that not 
having PPI with several other  loans means anything in particular. 
Also, whilst NBL hasnt been able to show me any hard evidence that Mr and Mrs T definitely  agreed 
to buy this PPI in 1991,  or were offered the choice,  I take into account  that this was all a long time 
ago. In fact, NBL did show me a written PPI quote supplied to Mr and Mrs T from the time of the 
sale. The quote showed  that the £9.60 monthly PPI premium was set-out  on paper together with other 
financial information and therefore probably discussed  at the mortgage meeting the parties  had. This 
isnt in dispute  but I also see that the PPI charges later showed up on Mr and Mrs Ts bank 
statements over a long period of time.
With regard to their employment-related benefits,  although Mr and Mrs T enjoyed  relatively good  
levels of protection  from sickness, Im afraid this alone doesnt necessarily mean they didnt want   or 
agree to - PPI for their mortgage. Nor does it mean the PPI wasnt of use to them.  Mr and Mrs Ts 
mortgage would have no doubt been secured against their home. So the consequences of losing a 
main part of their income could have had serious  consequences for them. I also think the PPI policy 
would have been affordable for them and broadly similar in cost and coverage to the types of PPI 
cover typically  available at that time.  It would have paid out a monthly  sum in the event in the event  of 
a successful claim to help pay their mortgage  each  month.
So although Im sure all these points of complaint  are made honestly and genuinely, I think there are 
also many  other interpretations that could explain them.
Why I think the complaint  should be upheld
However, our adjudicator asked to see some details of another PPI-type  policy  Mr T had mentioned to 
us. This wasnt  the main thrust of his and Mrs Ts complaint, but Ive used my inquisitorial remit to 
think about whether this other policy  might  have  made a difference. 
I think  its very probable  that it would have.
This is because this evidence appears to show Mr T already had a PPI-type policy in place to protect 
his mortgage repayments  at the time of this 1991 NBL sale. Hed had this existing policy since the late 
1980s and Ive seen evidence of its renewal and continued existence throughout the 1990s. So I can 
see this policy was up and running at the time NBL sold him the PPI hes now complaining  about. In 
effect, this other policy means  Mr T was covered twice  for the same eventuality.
The existing policy hes told us about was issued  by a large and well-known  insurer  from that time 
period and looks to have been in place  with a previous mortgage Mr and Mrs T had with a different 
financial provider, before  transferring their mortgage to NBL. 
The existing policy was described thus:  you are now in a position to be protected should  you be 
unable to work for 90 days or more following illness,  accident, redundancy or unemployment and your 
benefits will continue  for up to two years.
A later renewal  notice  shows this cover was costing around  £10.00 per month and the paid benefit,  if 
successfully claimed upon, was £200 per month.
So the conclusion  I draw from this is that Mr T was already covered for accident, redundancy and 
unemployment at the time NBL sold him the PPI cover  with his and Mrs Ts mortgage. Mr and Mrs Ts 
NBL PPI sale was carried out on an advised basis which  means NBL had a duty to make sure the 
PPI cover it sold was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances.   Any recommendation  to have PPI 
Ref: DRN26772525should have therefore included an assessment of their situation to determine  whether a PPI policy 
was suitable for them. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think its likely NBL carried out such  an assessment or provided clear  
enough information to Mr and Mrs T about the suitability of such  a policy. If such an assessment had 
been made, I think Mr and Mrs Ts finances would have shown Mr T was already protected and 
therefore not in need of having further PPI protection.
The NBL PPI Mr T was eventually sold seems to me to have been broadly  similar in cost and scope to 
the one he already had with the other provider.  So I think it was duplicitous i.e. something he didnt 
need because he already  had it. Given he also had relatively strong protections  from sickness / 
unemployment through his job I dont  think he would have wanted the NBL policy if things had been 
explained properly. I think Mr and Mrs T would have concluded the NBL PPI was something they 
didnt need. 
In short, they wouldnt have wanted to buy the PPI sold by NBL.
what I think NBL should  do to put matters  right
NBL should put Mr and Mrs T in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. It
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs T the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get they get the 
amount back.  The rate of interest  is 15% a year before April 1993 and 8% after that .
If Mr and Mrs T made any successful claims under the PPI policy NBL can take off what  
they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires NBL to take off tax from this interest.  It must  give Mr and Mrs T a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im considering  upholding  this complaint. And Im considering requiring  
Northern Bank Limited to put matters  right as described  above.  
However I now invite the parties to send me any further information or evidence  before 28 July 2019 
after which I intend to make  a final decision.
Ref: DRN2677252