K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained about a number of loans he took out through  a company called Uncle 
Buck Finance LLP. (Uncle Buck). Mr J says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loans 
caused him financial problems.
background
We now know that Mr J took out 7 loans from Uncle Buck between  November 2014  and 
March 2016. Ive enclosed a summary of Mr Js borrowing with Uncle Buck,  based  on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld  
from the point of loan 5 onwards. Neither Uncle Buck, nor Mr J, agrees with this. Uncle  Buck 
says that it would refund him some  of the interest  and charges (for loan 7). Mr J says he 
feels all the loans were  irresponsible. The complaint has therefore come  to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr Js 
complaint.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr J could repay the loan he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought  to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amount  and the consumers income  and expenditure.  
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Uncle Buck  should  have  fairly and reasonably done more  to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN25965412There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So Uncle  Buck was required to establish 
whether Mr J could sustainably repay the loans, not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr J 
could sustainably make  the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that this is the 
case. This is because  the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Uncle Buck  told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing  to lend to Mr J, including 
assessing his income,  expenditure  and net disposable income.  It says it also carried  out a 
credit check  to assess his creditworthiness. It says that all this information showed  that he 
would be able to make the loan repayments he was committing  to.  
Ive looked carefully  at all this and also applied what Ive said above,  particularly about the 
length of the lending relationship, to the circumstances  of loans 1 - 4. And I dont think  its 
clear enough  at this particular  point  that what Uncle Buck would have seen, from its checks,  
suggested the loans were  either  unaffordable for him or that the information on the checks  it 
carried out substantially  undermined the outgoings Mr J had himself declared. In coming to 
that conclusion  Ive taken a careful  note of the duration of loans 1- 4 and the amount of 
money being sought by Mr J on each occasion. 
I accept that during the period of loans 1  4, Mr J may have already been indebted to other 
short-term loan providers.  However, theres  no clear record that the type or depth  of credit 
checks that were carried out at that time would have shown the extent  to which  Mr J was 
borrowing from other short-term lenders. So Im afraid I dont agree that Uncle  Buck knew  its 
lending was unsustainable for Mr J in respect of loans 1 - 4. I therefore dont uphold this part 
of his complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan 5 onwards the situation  was different. Here, I think  
that proportionate and comprehensive checks about  Mr Js financial situation were  called for 
and they would have clearly shown  that he had several other short-term  loans  outstanding  at 
the same  time. I think this would have demonstrated  that he was having  trouble managing  
his money and relying heavily on short-term lending. For example, Mr J was substantially 
indebted to other short-term lenders.  He also applied  for loan 5 directly after repaying loan 4 
and the amount he borrowed  more  than doubled,  meaning that this loan was the highest one 
in the Uncle  Buck series thus far. 
In this respect, I agree with our adjudicator,  but Id like to add a little bit more  explanation. In 
my view there was already a clear pattern emerging of repeated lending from the point of 
loan 5, demonstrated by the time-period Mr J had been indebted to Uncle  Buck. By this point  
we know he had been borrowing from Uncle Buck for over 7 months  and as well as the 
successfully applied-for loans, I note there  were  other applications not progressed  for 
differing reasons. 
Uncle Buck  ought  therefore to have realised  that Mr J was probably  borrowing to meet 
regular shortfalls in his income and to meet an ongoing need. For loan 6, he increased his 
Ref: DRN25965413borrowing again and loan 7 followed directly after that; all strong evidence that he was 
having to consistently take out high interest, short-term lending  and his indebtedness was 
becoming unsustainable. 
With all this information, I dont think Uncle Buck ought  to have lent him the money from 
loans 5 onwards.  I dont  think  it was responsible to do so. 
Ive thought about what Uncle Buck said in response to our adjudicators  view.  But Im 
upholding this complaint in respect  of loans  5, 6 and 7. Uncle  Buck repeatedly  lent to Mr J in 
an unsustainable manner  because in addition to what Ive said above:
 
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging his indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use, over an extended time period; and
the length of time over which Mr J borrowed was likely  to have had negative 
implications on his ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  
for these high-cost  loans.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr J, Uncle Buck should:
A.refund  all interest and charges Mr J paid on loans 5, 6 and 7;including payments 
made to a third party where applicable, but not including anything you have already 
refunded.
B.pay 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr J which  were 
considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mr J originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.pay Mr J the total of A plus B.
D.the number  of loans taken from loan 5 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 5, 6 and 7 should  be completely 
removed from Mr Js credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck  to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr J a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr Js complaint and direct Uncle Buck Finance LLP to put things right as 
set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman 
Appendix
Ref: DRN25965414Loan Date  Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 06/11/2014 21/11/2014 1 £200.00 £269.90
2 24/11/2014 22/12/2014 1 £350.00 £472.33
3 20/03/2015 23/04/2015 1 £150.00 £192.00
4 19/05/2015 23/06/2015 1 £200.00 £259.20
5 29/06/2015 23/09/2015 3 £450.00 £218.54
6 04/12/2015 23/02/2016 3 £600.00 £283.32
7 01/03/2016 23/09/2016 3 £525.00 £253.48
Ref: DRN2596541