K820x#14complaint
W, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank PLC should have done more to help it 
get its money back after it was a victim of a scam.
background
W made  an online payment, by faster payments, to purchase a car. It was later told that the 
car it had bought was cloned.  It notified  the police,  and they seized the car. It asked Barclays 
to recover its money. Barclays hasnt been successful in retrieving  the money.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. She felt that Barclays  had acted 
correctly by crediting  the money  to the account  specified in Ws instructions. Once it had 
been told about what had happened, it contacted the receiving bank in a reasonable 
timeframe to try to recall  the money  without success.
W thought that Barclays should have  flagged the payment as suspicious.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  and
Ref: DRN21643522look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. Shortly after W made 
the scam  payment, this was codified in the British Standards  Institutes October 2017 
Protecting Customers from Financial  harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse   Code 
of Practice, which several banks and trade associations were involved in the 
development of.
 
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealing with 
W when it made the payment totalling  £12,000, or whether it should  have  done  more than it 
did. 
 
W made  an online transfer  to an account at Barclays for a business transaction. It provided 
the sort code and account number, together with the name of the account when it made the 
transfer. Im satisfied that the funds were  sent to and received by the bank and into the 
account number  as W instructed.  After it had been  sent and W received the car it had 
purchased, it found out that the car was cloned and it had been a victim of a scam.
W accepts that it authorised the transfer  of £12,000.  Because of this, Barclays had an 
obligation to follow Ws instruction. But there are some situations  in which  it should  
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances  surrounding  the transfer. 
W suggests that Barclays  should  have flagged  the payment as suspicious. Ive considered  
whether the transaction  was sufficiently unusual or out of character such that the bank ought 
to have been concerned about  it and intervened.  But, having  reviewed Ws bank statements, 
the payment was in line with normal spending and general activity on the account. So I think, 
in the circumstances, it was fair and reasonable that it wasnt  picked up by the banks fraud 
systems. I appreciate that W also feels that the receiving bank should  have flagged the 
payment as unusual  but that is outside  of Barclays control.
W told Barclays  about the scam  two days after making the transfer.  Barclays contacted the 
payees bank  to try and recall the money. It does this on a best endeavours basis,  which 
means it will only refund the money  if the receiving bank returns it. Barclays  has provided 
evidence to show that all the money  that W paid into the account was removed from the 
account by the morning  after the day it had been sent. But W didnt realise that it had been  a 
victim of a scam until the day after that. By the time W contacted Barclays  the money had 
already gone so it wasnt successful in getting the money refunded.
I understand the strength  of feeling,  upset and frustration that Ws directors must feel about 
what has happened as their company has been a victim of fraud. It is a considerable amount  
of money to lose. But, for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that Barclays  hasnt  made 
any mistake.  It acted on the companys  instructions. I also find that Barclays followed the 
right procedures in trying  to get the money back but was unsuccessful because it had been  
withdrawn before W realised what had happened.
Ref: DRN21643523I know Ws directors  will be very disappointed but Im afraid I cant  ask the bank to refund the 
company.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2164352