K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an attempt Mr C made  to obtain a re-mortgage  through mortgage 
broker Marylin  Parkins, who trades  as Designed  Mortgages (DM).  DM didnt succeed  in 
securing a mortgage for Mr C, and he says it should  return the broker fee (£1,850) he paid it.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 3 September 2020, which  is attached below and 
forms part of this final decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis  on which I was minded to 
determine this complaint,  subject to the further  submissions of the parties. 
I gave the parties  until 3 October 2020 to reply. Both have  done  so already. DM accepted my 
provisional decision; Mr C made  further  submissions, which  I summarise  below:
Regarding the location of the holiday  home, Mr C said DM had falsely amended  his 
email of 1 December 2018, substituting  the word second for Spanish when describing 
the property he was intending  to buy. He provided a pdf of the email  as hed sent it. 
Mr C provided  a copy of his bank statement for December  2018  thatd he supplied  to DM 
in January 2019. This showed a payment to a Spanish bank  account.  He said hed 
expect DM to have asked  why he had an account  in Spain if she didnt know he was 
buying a property there.
Regarding the car purchase, the bank statement also showed a payment to the car 
dealer. The payment  reference included the vehicle registration, so DM should  have 
known what that was for. Mr C said hed given DM access to his credit file so she could 
check it periodically; had she done  so, shed  have  seen the new credit facility for the car.
 my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has taken great exception to what he considers as me calling him a liar over the 
1 December 2018 email. In fact, I did no such thing; in my provisional decision,  I specifically 
said I wasnt suggesting hed deliberately  falsified  the email content  when  he summarised it 
in his timeline, but was happy to treat it as an innocent mistake. 
Its possible Mr C read my provisional  decision in haste and was mistaken in his 
understanding of it. But his comments do sit a little uneasily  alongside  the readiness with 
which hes levelled the same accusation at DM.
Mr C says hes prepared to involve  the Police  if need be. Thats  his prerogative of course, 
but Im not sure this is a matter for the Police.  Insofar as theres an inference of defamation, 
it would  appear  to be something more suited to a civil court action. 
In any event, I must disregard the accusation and counter-accusation element here (and to 
emphasise the point,  no such accusation was made  by me). The fact is that, having  now 
seen two different  renderings  of the 1 December 2018 email,  Ive no way of telling which 
version is genuine and which one has been  changed, and Im not prepared to speculate 
either way.
Ref: DRN23665862On the other evidence  of the bank  statements  and credit file login, Im not persuaded these 
help Mr Cs case as much he thinks. The context here is that his obligation to DM was to 
disclose material facts  to DM. Supplying bank statements and expecting  DM to decode 
whats in them isnt disclosure. And even if DM had said shed periodically check Mr Cs 
credit file, it wasnt something that she was required to do, and it didnt relieve Mr C of the 
obligation to disclose relevant information  directly. Mr C has said he did so in phone  
conversations; DM says he didnt  and again,  whose  recollection is the more  reliable  is 
unknowable.
Put all of the above together and the additional material  Mr C has provided hasnt changed  
the position I set out in my provisional  decision. That is, that Im not persuaded that his 
version of events is any more than just as likely as DMs version. As I explained,  just as 
likely isnt enough for me to find in his favour and order the refund of his broker fee.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out, above, I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  
this services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2020.
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN23665863CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  an attempt Mr C made to obtain a re-mortgage through  mortgage broker 
Marylin Parkins,  who trades as Designed  Mortgages (DM). DM didnt succeed in securing a 
mortgage for Mr C, and he says it should return the broker fee (£1,850) he paid it.
background
The details of this complaint  are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here. Instead 
Ill focus  on giving the reasons for my decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. If I dont  mention  anything,  its not because Ive overlooked it; rather, 
its because I didnt consider  it relevant to the outcome of the complaint. 
The starting  point here is the agreement between Mr C and DM. The broker fee is not refundable  if, 
after a full application has been submitted,  any of the following circumstances  apply:
if Mr C failed to provide  sufficient satisfactory documentation;
if new information came  to light that Mr C hadnt previously disclosed; or
if the property survey or valuation failed.
Neither the first nor third circumstance  applies here; the case turns  on whether  information  that 
contributed to the application  failing  was disclosed before or after the fee was paid and the application 
submitted to the lender.
Having considered  everything  thats been said and provided, Im satisfied that there are two key 
pieces of information that will have had a bearing  on the likelihood  of Mr Cs mortgage  application 
succeeding. These are:
that in December 2018,  he entered in to a new finance agreement  for the supply of a car on 
credit; and.
that the holiday  home  he wanted to buy with the money being  raised from the re-mortgage was 
located overseas.
The relevance  of the latter point  is that whilst lenders  will generally agree to lend for the purpose of 
finding second homes  in the UK, they rarely do so for overseas property.
Mr C says DM was made aware of these  pieces  of information  before the fee was paid and the 
application submitted to the lender; that was in mid-January 2019. DM says the first it knew of either  
was much later when discussing with Mr C the ramifications of the lender having reduced the amount 
it was willing to lend, and he was asking  for his fee back. 
Thats what the complaint  turns on. Ive weighed up the conflicting arguments and the evidence  
underpinning them very carefully, and on both points, the position isnt clear  either way.
DM completed a fact-find in early December 2018. The fact-find records  that Mr C was raising capital 
to buy a holiday  home.  But theres no mention of the location; specifically no reference to the planned 
purchase being overseas.
Ref: DRN23665864Mr Cs evidence is that the location was mentioned  in his original email introducing himself to DM, 
which was on 1 December 2018. However, that evidence  is part of a time-line he put together when 
referring his complaint to us. DM has provided  a copy of the email as it was actually received on 1 
December 2018, and the content simply  refers to buying a second home. Theres no mention in the 
original email of the holiday home being overseas, and Ive not found  any reference to it being 
overseas prior to the fee being paid and the full application being submitted to the lender.
Im not suggesting for one moment that Mr C has deliberately falsified the content of the 1 December 
2018 email in his time line; it may simply be an innocent mistake  on his part. But it does diminish  the 
reliability of his evidence, and limit the weight I can place on it when deciding  the complaint.
Theres a similar ambiguity  regarding the car loan. The fact-find captured  details of Mr Cs existing  
credit commitments  theyre listed in a section marked Financial Details. The commitment  for the 
new car isnt listed amongst  them, and I wouldnt expect it to be. According to the document  Mr C 
later provided  to us, he entered  into the agreement on 20 December 2018, a little over two weeks 
after the fact-find  was completed. 
There is a note on the fact-find saying that Mr C has got rid of one of the existing commitments and 
borrowed £45,000 to buy a car. This note is written in the margins of the form and for the reason 
already outlined, must have been added after the form was initially  completed. Theres no way of 
knowing for certain when it was added, and nothing that would enable me to decide  one way or 
another if it was before  or after the fee was paid and the full application submitted.
I need to base  my decision  on the balance of probabilities. When  considering any complaint like this, 
as Mr C is the one bringing the complaint against DM, to uphold the complaint Mr Cs version needs 
to be more  likely than DMs version; not just as likely . Having considered  everything before me 
presently, I cant say Mr Cs version is anything more  than, at best,  just as likely, which  isnt enough 
for me to uphold his complaint.
On balance, having considered everything both parties have said, the available evidence doesnt 
persuade me that DM was aware of the location  of the holiday home  or the car loan at the time the 
application was submitted  to the lender. Given this, Im not persuaded  DM has done anything  wrong.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I dont intend  to uphold 
this complaint or make any order or award  against Marylin Parkins trading as Designed Mortgages.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 3 October  2020,  or sooner if both parties  confirm  
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Neither party 
need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2366586