K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc refused his claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 in respect of a service not provided  
Background
Mr S had a timeshare, with a company  I will call R, which he wished to relinquish and in 
August 2012 he attended a meeting with a company I will call T which  said it could help him 
dispose of it. He paid T £3,406.91 by credit card.
He says he was told by T in the autumn of 2012 that the cancellation  would be completed 
shortly. He heard nothing and when  he received  an invoice for maintenance fees from R, he 
contacted T in October 2013, but again didnt  receive any update on the cancellation of the 
timeshare. 
A further  invoice for fees was received in October  2015 and he forwarded this to T. After not 
hearing anything  from T for four years Mr S made a claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. He appointed a representative  which told Santander that T had
breached the contract with him by not getting him out of the timeshare. The representative 
said T had misrepresented its services.  
Santander spoke  to T which said the timeshare had been terminated in January 2015  and it 
rejected his section  75 claim. Mr Ss representative  brought a complaint  to this service.  It 
was considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend that it be upheld.
She obtained further information from the bank and from Mr S. The bank provided a note 
from T, which is no longer trading, which stated that its agent had contacted R in October 
2014 and it had responded to say Mr S would no longer be liable  for maintenance fees and 
he would  not be entitled to any refund. However,  it needed to see the deeds which were 
missing. The agent notified Mr S the following day and it said that Mr S thanked him and 
agreed to return the paperwork. He heard nothing more and assumed the forms had been 
sent to R. Mr S has told this service  that he sent the form to R in late 2014 and the timeshare 
was cancelled.
T says it only became  aware of the issue in January 2017 when Santander  made contact. It 
confirmed that timeshare had been  cancelled in January 2015. 
Our investigator noted that some  of documentation  was missing due to the passage  of time. 
However, the evidence  showed that T had sought the necessary documentation and had 
begun the process  even  if it had been completed by Mr S. She didnt consider there to been 
a breach of contract.  
Mr S didnt agree and said he had been told the process would begin immediately but he 
hadnt heard  anything  from T until late 2014. He had provided the deeds which had then 
been lost by T. He believed the surrender process to have been  relatively  straightforward  
and there  was no reason given as to why it had taken so long. He said T had breached its 
contract by taking so long to instigate the process.  
 
Ref: DRN21281652My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have given due consideration  to the evidence provided and while I have sympathy  with Mr 
Ss arguments, I dont  believe  I can uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The required  chain is in place  and I have to consider if there is a clear breach or a 
misrepresentation. I have  looked at the contract and I can see the accompanying disclosure  
document states that it will commence the process immediately. The first Mr S heard back 
from T was two years later.
I cannot say what  happened  in the intervening period, not least because  T no longer exists,  
but it is possible that it started the process  immediately  and thereafter  there  were  other  
delays or obstacles  which  it had to address. Or it is possible that it started  the process, but 
then took no further  action  for two years. Due to the passage of time it is impossible to clarify 
what occurred. Quite simply I cannot  say that the process wasnt  started immediately.
The contract doesnt give a date by which termination would be delivered and that as Mr S 
has acknowledged is understandable. However,  it did act to terminate the timeshare and it 
did seek information from Mr S to allow it to do so. I appreciate Mr S has told us that T lost 
his documents  and that may well have  been the case, but that of itself is not a breach of 
contract. In short it delivered what was necessary to ensure  the performance of the contract.  
The original  complaint brought to this service by the representative says that Mr S was sent 
an invoice in October 2015 and wasnt aware at that point that the timeshare had been 
cancelled, but I believe he received  confirmation in January 2015 that it had. This is a little 
confusing, but I appreciate that much time has elapsed and some of the details may not be 
as clear as they could  be. 
The legislation requires there to be a clear  breach and I dont believe I can say that this test 
has been met. While  I have every sympathy with Mr S I cannot uphold  this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 9 
March 2021.
Ref: DRN21281653Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2128165