K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  about the way Lloyds Bank  plc handled her account  and dealt with her 
when she found  herself unable  to repay  or significantly reduce her overdraft. She says that 
her difficulties were caused, at least in part, by changes to the banks charging  structure  
introduced at the end of 2017.
background
At the end of 2017 Lloyds  changed its overdraft charging structure, in part with the intention 
of discouraging  customers from using large  overdrafts on a long-term basis.  The new 
structure was, broadly  speaking, beneficial for customers  who used an overdraft for short  
term, low-level borrowing, but more expensive for those with large  overdrafts over longer 
periods.
Miss P expressed her dissatisfaction with the changes and Lloyds wrote  to her in November 
2017 about them. It said it thought it was entitled to make  the changes  and provided Miss P 
with some telephone  numbers  - both at the bank and with external organisations - that she 
could contact if she needed financial help or advice. The banks letter  said too that Miss P 
could refer her concerns  to this service  if she wasnt  satisfied; if she wanted to do that, she 
should do so within six months.
In or about March  2018 Lloyds restricted access to Miss Ps account and indicated it would 
take steps to close it. She tried to obtain more information about that decision, but wasnt  
able to make  much  progress.
In June 2018 Lloyds wrote  to Miss P asking her make contact. When  she did that, she 
discussed making payments to reduce the overdraft. She was told that, as the account was 
blocked, she would need to do so at her branch. She would need to tell staff about the block  
on the account. Miss P says that she tried to make  a payment  shortly after that, but was 
unable to do so. She contacted the bank again and explained she was unhappy about the 
way she was being treated.
Lloyds agreed  that it hadnt handled things as well as it should have done and paid her £75 
in recognition of that. But it also said that she should clear the overdraft within 65 days; if she 
didnt, the bank would default  the account.  Miss P was able to make  a payment in August 
2018, but not enough to clear the overdraft. In October 2018 Lloyds closed the account and 
transferred the outstanding balance of around £2,000 to its collections team. It also placed a 
default on Miss Ps credit file.
When Miss P referred her complaint to this service,  one of our investigators considered it. 
He was satisfied  that the bank had been entitled  to close  her account in the way it did. He 
also accepted  that Lloyds  was within its rights to call in the overdraft. However, he thought  
the bank should have  done more to try to come to a payment arrangement with Miss P; had 
it done so, she would  have found the process  less stressful.  The investigator suggested the 
bank pay an additional  £250 in recognition of that - although he acknowledged that Miss Ps 
circumstances meant  it was unlikely she and the bank could have reached an agreement  
about a payment plan.
Lloyds didnt accept  that it should  pay any more and asked that an ombudsman  review  Miss 
Ps complaint. I did that and, because I was minded to reach  a different conclusion from the 
investigator, I issued  a provisional decision. 
I explained that this service  wont generally intervene where a financial business  takes  a 
legitimate commercial decision to end a relationship. Given  the way Miss Ps account  had 
been operating,  I thought that Lloyds was entitled  to take the view that it no longer wished to 
Ref: DRN24306842provide her with an account. It had given adequate notice of its intention to close the 
account. 
I didnt agree, however, with the investigators  conclusion that Lloyds  should  pay Miss P a 
further £250 because (as he said) it should  have done more to try to reach  a payment 
arrangement with her. The investigator  had acknowledged  that it was unlikely that an 
arrangement could have been  reached, given Miss Ps acknowledged financial difficulties. I 
noted that the bank had provided  information about  other organisations that might be able to 
help Miss P, and didnt  believe  there  was anything  more  that Lloyds could have realistically 
done. Overall, I thought  that the banks original offer of £75 was fair in all the circumstances. 
Miss P didnt agree with my provisional  conclusions and didnt think the banks offer of £75 
adequately reflected what she had been  through. Ive therefore considered the case for a 
final time.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent however changed my view from 
that reached in my provisional decision.  I think its clear from what Miss P has said about her 
financial position that she was unlikely to be in a position to make meaningful proposals for 
the repayment of the money shed  borrowed  from Lloyds.  Those  circumstances were  beyond 
Miss Ps control, and so I think Lloyds suggestion that she contact outside  agencies  which 
might be able to provide  more wide-ranging help and advice than the bank could  was 
reasonable. 
For these reasons, I remain of the view that the banks offer of £75 was fair in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank plc to do anything further to resolve Miss 
Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2430684