K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains about the service that he received from Credit Resource Solutions  Limited  in 
connection with his debt.
background
A third party  lent £250 to Mr T for 26 days under a fixed sum loan agreement in early 
April 2018. He didnt  repay the debt by the repayment date and the account went into 
arrears. The third party then asked Credit Resource Solutions to collect the arrears on the 
account. The outstanding balance on his account  in July 2018  was £500. Mr T wrote to 
Credit Resource Solutions at the end of that month  and asked it for a breakdown  of that 
amount. It said that the balance of £315 had resulted in extra fees being added. Mr T 
complained to Credit  Resource Solutions  about that  and that he was being  harassed for 
payment by Credit  Resource Solutions despite  being told that his account  was on hold. And 
he also complained  that his repayment offer of £10 each month  had been  ignored. He wasnt  
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She felt that Credit 
Resource Solutions  couldve  done  more to provide the full breakdown  that Mr T was 
requesting and that he was caused  distress  by being chased  for payment when it had said 
that a hold had been put on his account. So she recommended that it should  pay him £100  
to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused. But she said that Credit 
Resource Solutions  had accepted Mr Ts repayment  offer and repayments were  to start in 
November 2018.
Mr T has accepted the investigators recommendation  but says that his repayment offer was 
made in August 2018 but wasnt  accepted  until 35 days later.  Credit  Resource Solutions has 
asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says,  in summary, that:
it didnt purchase the debt but was working  on behalf of the third party  to collect  the 
outstanding balance;
its always acting on the instructions  of the third party;
it asked the third party for a full breakdown of the fees and transactions  on Mr Ts 
account and it was sent a statement of account  which it sent onto Mr T;
the third party  only provided a full breakdown of fees after being  notified that this 
service was involved; and
it accepts that the account wasnt put on hold resulting  in three  messages  being  sent 
to Mr T - but it doesnt feel that that warrants £100  compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The outstanding balance  of Mr Ts account in July 2018 was £500 and he asked Credit 
Resource Solutions  for a breakdown of that amount. I consider that he was entitled  to 
receive a detailed breakdown of the interest and charges that had been  applied to his 
account. But he was told that it was the balance of £315 with extra fees added.  I dont 
consider that to have been  an acceptable  response to Mr T. 
Credit Resource Solutions says that thats  the information that it was it was given by the third 
party and that it was acting on the third partys instructions.  But I consider that it shouldve 
done more to obtain the information  that Mr T had reasonably requested or to properly 
Ref: DRN28058842explain to him its relationship with the third party. Its failure to do so has caused Mr T 
distress and inconvenience.
Credit Resource Solutions accepts that the account  wasnt put on hold when it shouldve 
been and that that resulted in three  messages being sent to Mr T. That will have also caused  
Mr T distress and inconvenience.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Credit Resource 
Solutions to pay £100 to Mr T to compensate him for the distress  and inconvenience  that 
hes been caused. 
Mr T offered to make  repayments of £10 each month in August 2018  but Credit Resource  
Solutions didnt  accept his offer until 35 days later. I can understand  that the delay will have 
been frustrating  and upsetting for Mr T  but Im not persuaded that there  was an 
unacceptable or unreasonable delay. And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me 
to require Credit Resource Solutions to pay more  than the £100 compensation referred to 
above to Mr T  or to take any other  action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint. And I order Credit 
Resource Solutions  Limited to pay £100 compensation to Mr T.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2805884