K821x#15complaint
Mr J says PDL Finance Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 4 payday loans which PDL Finance provided to Mr J between  
February 2014 and September  2014.  Mr Js borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 26/02/2014 28/03/2014 1 £250.00 £337.50
2 30/06/2014 28/07/2014 1 £400.00 £520.00
3 30/07/2014 28/08/2014 1 £267.00 £347.10
4 01/09/2014 28/10/2014 1 £100.00 £130.00
Mr J says he was already in financial difficulty and taking the payday  loans made  things 
worse for him; he said the difficulties were  contributed to because PDL Finance lent 
irresponsibly to him. He says the loans kept him in bad debt.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Js complaint and thought  loans 2, 3 and 4 shouldnt have 
been given. She said redress should be paid to Mr J and that the negative payment 
information should be removed from Mr Js credit file. 
PDL Finance  disagreed with our adjudicators  view.  PDL Finance said loan 2 was settled on 
time, Mr Js credit  file had improved between  loans 1 and 3, and that loans 3 and 4 were  for 
smaller amounts than loan 2. So the complaint  was passed to me to look at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
PDL Finance  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that PDL Finance should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN28145552the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable  although I dont think  we reach that point  
in Mr Js case.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL Finance was required to 
establish whether  Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
For loan 1, Mr J needed  to repay around £337 the month after taking it. PDL Finance told us 
it completed credit checks and Mr J said he had a monthly income  of £1,100.  He was 
applying for a loan for £250.  I havent  seen any further information that shows its likely PDL 
Finance was made aware of any financial  problems  Mr J might  have been having. Or 
anything that would  have prompted it to investigate Mr Js circumstances  further. I think  it 
was reasonable  for PDL Finance to rely on the information it obtained for loan 1. So overall,  
in these circumstances, I think  the assessment PDL Finance did for loan 1 was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend for loan 1 was reasonable. So Im not 
upholding Mr Js complaint about loan 1.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans 2, 3 and 4 would most likely 
have shown that Mr J:
was using a significant proportion of his income to repay loan 2, so there was a 
significant risk he wouldnt  be able to repay the loan without undue difficulty or 
without having  to borrow again.  I note PDL Finance  said this loan was settled on 
time, but I think that means Mr J was able to sustainably  repay  the loan. 
Mr J also took out loan 3 just 3 days after repaying loan 2. And loan 4 was taken out 
just 7 days after loan 3. I think this shows he was not managing his money well so 
that further loans  would not be able to be repaid sustainably. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 2, 3 and 4 and PDL Finance  should put things  
right.
putting things right  what PDL Finance Limited needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr J paid on loans 2, 3 and 4;
Ref: DRN28145553pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative payment information about loans 2, 3 and 4 from Mr Js credit 
file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
PDL Finance  Limited must  give Mr J a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Js complaint. PDL Finance  Limited  
should put things right for Mr J as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2814555