K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Mrs R complain about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  have 
treated them  at the end of their interest-only  mortgage term. Theyre unhappy the bank 
havent approved  a term extension, or allowed them to transfer the mortgage  onto a lower 
interest rate product.
background
In 2003, Mr G and Mrs R took out an interest-only mortgage with Halifax, for a term of 11 
years. In 2013,  the term was extended until 2018, and in 2016, the term was extended again  
until October 2019, when  they completed  product transfers.
In January 2019, Halifax wrote to Mr G and Mrs R to explain the interest rate on their 
mortgage was changing from February 2019,  as their fixed rate period had ended. Their 
monthly payments  would be changing from £436.08 to £955.66 as a result.
After receiving the letter, Mr G contacted Halifax  about the change. During this conversation, 
Halifax explained they couldnt  offer him a new interest rate product, as the mortgage  term 
was due to end in eight  months. They did offer to do a review  of Mr G and Mrs Rs 
circumstances, to see if they could extend  the mortgage on a repayment basis, or part 
interest-only and part repayment. But Mr G didnt want to do this, he wanted  a two year 
extension on an interest-only  basis.
Halifax said they werent able to extend the mortgage on an interest-only basis  for two years, 
so Mr G and Mrs R complained. They said Halifax were discriminating against them because 
of their age. Mr G said he has another property hes sold in order to repay the mortgage, but 
theres a dispute  ongoing  so he didnt yet have  access  to the funds. 
Halifax didnt uphold  the complaint. They said that the minimum term they could offer for a 
new rate was two years,  so as the mortgage stood there were no lower rates  available  to 
Mr G and Mrs R. They  also said they expect borrowers coming to the end of their mortgage  
term to complete an affordability assessment, to see if any of the mortgage could be 
switched to repayment. As Mr G had said he was planning to redeem the mortgage  when 
the proceeds of the sale of his other property had cleared, Halifax reminded him that if he 
was to take out another fixed rate product  now, an Early Repayment Charge  would  apply if 
the mortgage was redeemed before the end of the fixed rate period.
Mr G and Mrs R brought their complaint to our service. They provided us with information 
about the assets they have, and their plan to repay the mortgage  once  the proceeds of the 
sale of their property have cleared. They said the dispute could take up to three  years  to 
resolve.
Our investigator looked into things, but didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G and Mrs R 
disagreed with the outcome so the case has been passed to me to issue  a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN26444192I can appreciate why Mr G and Mrs R are unhappy  that Halifax wouldnt give them  a lower  
interest rate, as the change  in interest rate increased their monthly payments significantly. 
Halifax have sent me a list of the products they had available at the time of the request in 
January 2019.  I can see the shortest period they had a product available  for was two years. 
So this meant they couldnt put the mortgage  on a new product without the mortgage  being 
extended to cover the two year period, without incurring additional costs to Mr G and Mrs R. 
As a result, Im satisfied  that without extending the mortgage term, Halifax were acting fairly 
when they said they couldnt put the mortgage on a lower interest rate.
So Ive then gone on to consider whether Halifax should have extended the mortgage  for two 
years as Mr G and Mrs R requested. Halifax had already extended the mortgage  term before 
- it was originally due to end in 2014. But lenders are not obliged to extend  the term of an 
interest-only mortgage when it ends. In 2016, Mr G and Mrs R agreed to Halifaxs  mortgage 
offer  which stated  the mortgage  would  end in 2019. So Halifax were reasonable to expect 
the mortgage to be repaid as all parties had agreed. However, the rules set by the regulator 
 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  do allow the bank to consider extending the term 
of the mortgage  on an interest-only  basis, if it would be in the borrowers  best interests. 
The outstanding mortgage balance is around  £255,000. Mr G and Mrs R have helpfully 
provided lots of information about  their options to repay this mortgage. Specifically, Mr G 
said they have  over £170,000 from the proceeds  of another  house  sale.  Solicitors are 
currently holding this money, as theres an ongoing  dispute about the funds - which Mr G 
has said could take up to three years to resolve.  And until then  they dont have access  to 
this money. I appreciate  Mr G has sent us emails  from solicitors  confirming  the amount being  
held, but neither us, nor Halifax, have seen  anything to show that money  is guaranteed  to be 
paid to Mr G and Mrs R. And if the full amount does get released to them, we dont know 
when this might be.
Theyve also sent us information about policies in Mrs Rs name.  The documents provided  
show the current values  of these policies to be around £82,000, and Mr G has told us these  
funds are available to them now. Theyve also said they can borrow  money  from Mr Gs 
mother-in-law to help if thats  needed.
Mr G has sent us information about another  property they also own  which currently only 
has a charge of £15,000 held against  it. Hes said that if the funds from the other property 
sale dont get released to them within the proposed two year extension,  they can sell this 
other property to repay the mortgage.  However,  they say dont want  to sell this property now. 
Mr G has told us their home is currently worth at least £700,000, but they have no plans to 
move or downsize.
Based on everything  both sides have told us, Im not persuaded  it would be fair to ask 
Halifax to extend  this mortgage for another two years on an interest-only basis.  Whilst I 
appreciate Mr G and Mrs R would prefer to wait before repaying the balance because  this 
would make things  more convenient  for them, I think they have other options available to 
them now in order to pay the mortgage and resolve  things. 
Ive listened to the conversation Mr G had with Halifaxs  end of term team, and the bank 
offered to review Mr G and Mrs Rs circumstances to see what  options could be available for 
them. But Mr G only wanted to consider an interest-only extension for two years,  and so a 
full review wasnt completed.  I think a fair outcome  here would  be for a full review to take 
place  which would involve Mr G and Mrs R providing Halifax with all the information 
theyve told us about what they could  pay towards  the mortgage now, and what their future  
Ref: DRN26444193plans are. They can then decide  and agree whether Mr G and Mrs R can repay any potential 
outstanding amount remaining over a set period  considering  Mr G and Mrs Rs current  
income and circumstances.
I cant say what the outcome of this review might  be, but based on everything Ive seen Im 
not persuaded Halifax have declined Mr G and Mrs Rs request for an interest-only  extension 
unfairly. I do however  think Halifax need  to engage  with Mr G and Mrs R about their options 
to repay,  and once  a plan is agreed, they should  allow a period  of grace for any assets to be 
realised before taking  steps to recover the mortgage  themselves   as this could take some  
time.
Mr G and Mrs R have also said they feel Halifax are discriminating against them because of 
their age. From what Ive seen, I cant agree this is the case. Halifax have offered to review 
their circumstances to work  out what they can afford to pay. They havent declined to extend 
the mortgage altogether. I cant see theyve treated Mr G and Mrs R any differently to how 
they would  have treated other  customers in a similar position  to them, and have tried to 
engage with them about their individual  circumstances   which is what Id expect them to do. 
As a result, Im not persuaded  Halifax have discriminated against Mr G and Mrs R.
I know this outcome will come as a disappointment to Mr G and Mrs R, but Im not satisfied 
Halifax have acted unfairly.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 December 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2644419