K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed a fraudster to open an account in his name.
background
In January 2019, Mr B received a letter from Barclays about a new account in his name.  But  
Mr B had not applied  for another account   as he was already an existing customer.
He spoke to Barclays  and following an investigation,  it was agreed that he had been a victim 
of fraud.  The account was closed and Barclays placed a protective marker on Mr Bs credit 
file noting that he had been a victim  of identity theft.  Barclays said it sent Mr B a letter 
confirming the same.
Some weeks later, because he never received  the letter, Mr B complained to Barclays.  
Barclays offered to pay £30 in settlement  of his complaint so Mr B came to this service.
He told our investigator that he wanted an explanation as to how this fraud could have 
happened.  He also wanted  confirmation of whether Barclays systems had been breached.
Our investigator told Mr B that he did not think Barclays needed to do anymore.  The  matter  
was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I will not 
be upholding this complaint.
I should explain to Mr B that the role of this service is to look at whether Barclayss  has done 
anything wrong  in how it handled Mr Bs complaint.  If  it has, I then need  to decide how that 
ought to be rectified.
Mr B says he did not receive  the letter confirming that the account  had been  closed  but I 
think from what I have seen, it was most  likely sent. 
So in the circumstances, I remind myself  that the time from Mr B contacting  Barclays, and 
the account being closed  was just under a week. I am pleased to see that Mr B suffered no 
financial loss as a result and I am also pleased to see that Barclays  placed a protective 
marker against Mr Bs name.  This will hopefully protect Mr B from becoming a victim of 
identity theft whilst the marker  remains.
And Ive seen nothing  to suggest that this fraud  was possible because  Barclays  systems 
had been breached  more likely that someone  close to Mr B, who has access  to his 
information, made the application.  That assumption  is strengthened  by the fact that another  
business has also placed a protective marker against Mr B.
I can see Mr B has argued that the marker has caused a delay in opening  a phone/internet  
account.  Ive looked  at the information  he has sent in and can see that the business want 
further evidence  of proof of address, etc.  I dont think  that means they are refusing the 
account  I think  it means that they are taking notice of the protective  marker and are making 
sure that it is in fact Mr B who is making the application.
Ref: DRN20061272So, in terms  of how this has impacted  Mr B, I have seen very little. I accept the situation  is 
far from ideal  its worrying to know that you have been impersonated by a fraudster.  But  I 
pleased to see that Barclays acted swiftly and fairly and that there has been  no actual loss to 
Mr B.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2006127