K820x#14complaint
Ms D and Mr J complain  they were mis-sold  a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background
Ms D and Mr J had a mortgage. Acting on the advice of L&G, they re-mortgaged  to a new 
lender, taking a new fixed  rate and extending  the term slightly.  They  consolidated  some 
unsecured debt and borrowed  around  £4,000  extra in cash. Theyre now represented by a 
claims management company which says this was unsuitable advice. It says they didnt 
need extra  borrowing or to consolidate their debt, and should  have  stayed with their existing 
lender. And it says the fees charged by the broker were excessive and unfair.
Our investigator thought the mortgage advice was suitable, but didnt think the unsecured 
debt should have been consolidated. Neither party agreed with that, so the complaint came  
to me for a decision  to be made. I took a different view of the case, so I issued a provisional  
decision to allow the parties to comment  before I make my final decision. I said:
Ms D and Mr J were  coming towards the end of their previous fixed rate with their 
previous lender. Having looked  at the documents completed at the time, I place little 
reliance on what L&G says is their dissatisfaction with their previous lender. Those 
comments come at the end of a questionnaire   the questions of which, it seems to 
me, are designed not to find information but to elicit the reaction they did.
However, I do think it was reasonable for L&G to consider the whole market. At the 
time, interest  rates  were  on a broad upward  trend, and so in re-fixing their mortgage, 
Ms D and Mr Js payments were  likely  to increase   as indeed they did. The fact find 
shows their finances were fairly tight  they had around £250 disposable income  based  
on their old mortgage  payments. The new mortgage, the cheapest  available,  increased 
their payments by £200 a month, taking them close to the limit of what  was affordable. 
Thats especially the case because Mr J was heavily  reliant on non-guaranteed 
overtime to boost his income to that level. 
The investigator said the unsecured loan shouldnt have been consolidated because  
it was a car loan, and car loans shouldnt  be added to a mortgage. But I dont think 
thats necessarily the case. Whats important is not the purpose for which the loan 
was originally taken,  but whether consolidating it is a suitable  thing  to do.
In this case, I think it was. Ive already  said that Ms D and Mr Js financial position  
was tight. Consolidating the loan saved them almost £400  per month  and while 
doing so was more expensive overall,  it reduced  their outgoing substantially, making 
what would  otherwise be a marginally affordable mortgage clearly affordable. On 
balance, I think the benefits outweighed the costs.
There doesnt seem to have been  any need  for the additional £4,000 paid to Ms D 
and Mr J in cash on completion. I agree that shouldnt have been done.  But Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair to require L&G to refund the interest theyve been 
charged on it. I dont know what Ms D and Mr J did with the money.  If they didnt 
want it, they could  have paid it back to the mortgage immediately with no charges 
and then wouldnt have  suffered any loss. 
Ref: DRN28022692I note L&G has offered to refund the commission the broker received for referring 
Ms D and Mr J to a solicitor, together with £100  compensation. I think  thats fair. But 
I dont think its required to refund the fees it charged them  for the mortgage advice. It 
was made  clear to Ms D and Mr J what they would  need  to pay; they agreed  to pay, 
and they received the service they paid for. Other brokers  charge according to a 
different structure,  and many brokers charge less than L&G did. But I dont think 
L&Gs fees were  so excessive as to be inherently  unfair, and they were 
communicated clearly  and fairly  to Ms D and Mr J. I dont think  it needs to take any 
further action.
L&G acknowledged my provisional decision. The CMC  didnt  respond  by the deadline.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has made any further 
arguments, I see no reason to change my mind about what I said in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I think  that Legal  & General Partnership 
Services Limited has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint and I dont 
require it to take any further action beyond that.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2802269