K821x#15complaint
Mr B complained as a director  of M, a limited company, about UK Insurance  Limiteds  (UKI) 
appointed windscreen repairer. 
For ease of reading I will refer to UK Insurance Limited and its appointed repairer throughout 
as UKI.
background
Mr B needed  his windscreen repaired.  On 4 April 2019, Mr B made an online booking for 
8 April 2019; the appointment was scheduled  for any time between 8.00am and 5.00pm. 
When booking Mr B said he was advised  hed get a text message on the morning of the 
appointment narrowing the time slot.
By early afternoon of 8 April 2019, Mr B hadnt  got the expected  text message, so he called 
UKI to find out what time his appointment would  be. Mr B said he needed to know as he 
wanted to confirm a business appointment. He said he couldnt get a precise time or a 
guarantee for his appointment that day, so he cancelled the appointment and rearranged  it 
for 16 April 2019. He then left for a business  appointment.
Shortly after returning from this appointment, the technician arrived and the windscreen 
repair was done.  
Mr B wasnt  happy UKI hadnt messaged  him, in the morning to confirm an actual 
appointment time. He said this had caused  him to lose out on earnings, as hed had to spend 
the morning waiting for a technician when one hadnt been allotted. And hed spent some 
time on the phone with UKI trying  to get the matter sorted. Mr B also said,  hed signed  to say 
he was satisfied with the repair but he could see there was still a defect.
UKI said it had tried to carry  out the appointment within the allotted time and the repair had 
been done that day. It also apologised for the time its customer  service team had taken to 
answer his call.
Mr B wasnt  happy with this response  and referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said Mr B had been told on booking it was an all-day appointment. And UKI 
didnt guarantee  hed get a text message  on the morning of the appointment. She did think 
Mr B should  get £50 for the trouble hed had in trying to get an appointment time.  
Mr B didnt agree and has asked an ombudsman to consider  his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely  at the events and communications between  Mr B and UKI about the 
appointment for the windscreen repair. Mr B made the appointment, on UKIs  online booking 
site. This says:
Well repair or replace  at a time and place that suits you
Ref: DRN21484562When he booked the appointment he was given a timeslot of between 8.00am and 5.00pm 
on 8 April 2019. So, I would have expected Mr B to have been  prepared for the actual 
appointment to happen anytime during this period. But when he booked  the appointment 
online it did say:
We will text you a narrower appointment slot on the morning of your appointment
And this is what Mr B was expecting  to happen.  But UKI hadnt been  able to allocate a 
technician by the morning of the appointment. So the text wasnt sent.  UKIs  terms and 
conditions do go on to say it would aim to notify  a narrower timeslot by the morning of that 
day. But what Mr B saw when he made the booking  I think  gave him the assurance that he 
would get a text that morning.
But if Mr B had got a text message that morning it wouldnt  have necessarily given a morning 
timeslot; it would have  only narrowed the time down  to somewhere between  8.00am and 
5.00pm. I can understand Mr Bs frustration  but inevitably there will be, when any type of 
repair is needed, some  inconvenience involving our own time. I dont thinks  its unreasonable  
Mr B had to spend time waiting for the repair, as he was told; on booking  that it was an all-
day appointment. So I wont be awarding  any compensation for loss of earnings/business for 
the morning of 8 April 2019. 
The complaint has been made on behalf of M. As a limited company, its a separate legal 
entity from Mr B. So I can't make any award  to him personally. And as a limited company M 
cant suffer  distress, I can only look to see whether M as the business has been 
inconvenienced. 
Mr B, on behalf of M, wanted to arrange  business appointments around the windscreen 
repair. Because the precise time of the appointment couldnt be confirmed, the opportunity to 
do this was restricted. When Mr B called  UKI at 12.16pm, he was told a scheduled time for 
his appointment  hadnt yet been made.  During  this call, UKI did offer to re book the 
appointment, but Mr B rejected this. He was also told a complaint would be raised  with its 
customer services  team,  and that it would arrange for them to call him. I can see from the 
record of this call that the complaint was raised.
About an hour later, after no call back was received, Mr B called UKIs customer services.  
This call took approximately 23 minutes;  a scheduled time still hadnt been  allotted. But UKI 
did call Mr B back shortly  afterwards with the narrowed time slot of between  3.30pm and 
5.30pm, that day. But by this time Mr B had decided to go ahead with his own business 
appointments, so he cancelled  this time,  which was his choice, and arranged for the repair to 
be done on 16 April 2019.
I think Mr B could  have rebooked the appointment during  the first call and UKI did offer a 
narrower timeslot for later that day, so some  opportunity to plan business appointments was 
possible. 
The technician didnt  get the notification about the 3.30pm to 5.30pm appointment being 
cancelled and arrived to carry out the repair at 5.10pm. While this wasnt  what  had been 
agreed, the repair being done  on that day also prevented Mr B having to take further time 
away from the business on 16 April 2019. 
Ref: DRN21484563But I do think M was inconvenienced by Mr B having to call to confirm and rearrange the 
repair. So, I think the £50 suggested by our investigator is a reasonable reflection of the 
inconvenience caused.
Mr B also expressed dissatisfaction about the repair that was carried out as he said a defect  
could still be seen. But UKIs terms are clear  in that if the repair  didnt completely remove the 
defect a complete  windscreen replacement could be made but this would be at an added  
cost. It is for Mr B, on behalf of M, to decide whether it wants  to have this done.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint  (on behalf of M) and 
require UK Insurance Limited  to pay M £50 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B 
(on behalf  of M) to accept  or reject my decision before 15 September 2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2148456