K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains his protected rights fund was moved  by Standard  Life Client  Management 
Limited without his consent from his Standard Life Assurance Limited personal pension plan 
to his SIPP with the same provider.
background
Mr F met with a Standard Life adviser in September 2007, he was advised to move his 
existing personal  pensions to a SIPP. At the time the protected  rights could not be 
transferred to a SIPP and the adviser  recommended  that these go into a PPFlex pension.
In so far as relevant,  the suitability report said:
These funds cannot be transferred  onto the Sipp due to government legislation.
However I recommend  that these funds are transferred into a PPFlex  pension  fund
and attached to the platform as a legacy product.
The PPFlex  Pension  has been used as this will give access  to greater fund choice
than the current  stakeholder  plan and includes some property funds.
This will ensure that we can apply a similar  asset  allocation to the funds held on the
Wrap platform and that they can be included within the asset allocation  and
stochastic modelling.
This will provide the potential for capital growth you require using asset allocation
allied to the Wrap Platform.
Ultimately this did not go ahead, and Mr Fs protected rights remained within his existing
scheme.
The protected rights  amounting to around £13,000   were transferred to the SIPP  in
December 2008.
Standard Life has provided us with a copy of a letter  dated 5 December 2008  addressed  to
Mr F, this set out that:
Thank you again for your time on 3 December 2008 during which we discussed the
transfer of your Protected Rights pension funds into your Self Invested Personal
Pension (SIPP) within your Wrap  account.
And
During our initial discussions regarding the opening  of your Wrap account  I informed
you that, due to legislative restrictions, it was not possible to transfer  your Protected
Rights funds into your SIPP. With effect  from 1st October 2008, this restriction  has
been lifted and we discussed  again  the potential  to transfer these funds.
After our discussion  you decided to transfer your protected  rights funds into your
SIPP without  receiving  advice. You are aware that you are responsible for this
decision.
In respect of charges the letter confirmed  that there would be an initial charge of 1% on the
Ref: DRN29580552transfer value  and an ongoing advice  charge  of 1% per year applied  to the funds held in
Mr Fs Wrap  account.  The letter then went on to set out some  of the benefits of the with-
profits fund that Mr F would be giving up upon  transfer.
An illustration and a SIPP confirmation schedule were issued on the same  date.
In July 2012 Mr F complained about  the advice he received to move his existing  Standard
Life Pension to a Standard Life SIPP. He said he had not been made aware of all of the facts
about moving to a SIPP and that it did not match his attitude to risk.
On 24 August 2012, Standard Life issued  its final response letter. It did not uphold Mr Fs
complaint, it found  that the advice  he had received was suitable and that he was given
sufficient information  about the move to a SIPP. This letter  provided  Mr F with referral  rights
to this service and confirmed that he had six months  from the date of the letter to bring the
complaint to us.
On 12 October 2018, Mr F transferred  his pension away from Standard  Life to a new
provider.
In May 2018, Mr F complained to Standard  Life again, he said that he was advised  move out
of the K plan and give up with-profits guarantees. On 2 May 2018,  Standard  Life issued a
further final response letter it said that his complaint had already been dealt with in 2012 and
it would  not revisit this. It also confirmed that he could no longer refer his complaint to this
service.
Mr F raised  concerns again in January 2019. He remained of the view that the SIPP was
unsuitable. He also raised concerns about  the 2008  transfer of his protected rights.  He said
he should have  been given advice  and if he had agreed to the transfer it should not have
gone ahead  without his written consent.  Standard Life responded to Mr Fs concerns.  Briefly,
it said:
The value of the protected rights transferred into his SIPP was correct.
Mr F did not need to sign paperwork to transfer, the operation  of the SIPP was
predominantly online.
A confirmation schedule was sent to him on 5 December 2008,  this recorded the 
proposed transfer and asked that Mr F check its accuracy.  No issues were  raised  at 
that time.
The funds Mr F invested in achieved very good  returns they outperformed the with-
profits funds that Mr F was invested in prior to moving to a SIPP.
Mr F remained unhappy with Standard  Lifes responses. He was adamant  that the protected
rights fund, which had been held in the with-profits fund, had been sold at a low price and
without his consent. Standard Life issued a further  response on 17 February 2019, it was
satisfied that it had provided  Mr F with documentation to support its position.  Unhappy with
its response, Mr F referred his complaint to this service.
Standard Life objected to us looking into the complaint on the basis  that it had been brought
too late. Our investigator reviewed the complaint and concluded that Mr Fs concerns about
the transfer of his protected  rights in 2008  had been brought in time, as these had not been
addressed in the 2012 final response  letter.
Standard Life ultimately  agreed that the complaint about the 2008 non-advised transfer of
Ref: DRN29580553Mr Fs had been brought in time and consented  to us considering the complaint.
As part of our investigation we asked Standard Life for details of the value of Mr Fs personal
pension scheme  and of the transfers in to the SIPP, the information it provided confirmed:
On 29 October 2007, Mr Fs personal  pension plan was valued at £54,115.06
The non-protected rights valued  at £43,456.99 (including a partial terminal bonus), 
were transferred to his newly established  SIPP on 30 October 2007.
On 8 December  2008, the protected rights valued at £12,745.37,  were transferred to 
the SIPP. These funds were  received  into the SIPP on 12 December 2008.
Mr F has been making regular contributions of £361.55 into the plan.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and concluded that it should  not be upheld. He
thought it was most likely  that the letter of 5 December 2008 was an accurate representation
of what happened. He confirmed that the level of commission paid was in fact £127.45  and
that he did not think that it was unreasonable for no paperwork to have been completed
under the circumstances.
Mr F strongly disagreed  with the outcome reached. I have read his submissions in their
entirety here I included  only a summary. Briefly, he said:
He did not receive  the paperwork we have relied upon and the he should be given 
the benefit of doubt.
It is possible the letter was never  sent and was filed away  at the time to protect 
Standard Life.
His memory is clear in respect  of his meetings with the adviser  and he did not 
authorise the transfer of his protected rights.
He was led to believe the funds were  in his personal pension invested in with-profits.
Standard Life will have taken  more commission than we have accounted for.
He did not receive  nor was he offered advice.
His protected rights were invested  with Standard Life in 1988  when  it was a mutual 
company working for the benefit of its members,  when  it was cashed in the value 
assumed his monies had only been invested for a year.
An unfair penalty was applied upon  transfer.
He believes the sales were driven  by commission  and Standard  life hoped he would 
never realise the protected  rights had been transferred without his consent.
His protected rights should still be in his original  pension  invested in with-profits.
Without proof of his agreement to the transfer  Standard Life cannot fairly conclude 
that consent (verbal or otherwise)  was given.
I sent my provisional decision to Mr F and Standard Life explaining  why I did not think the 
complaint should  be upheld  and said that I would consider  anything  either party  wanted to 
add. Standard Life accepted my decision.  Mr F did not, and he reiterated his concerns.  He 
also added  that he felt it was suspicious that the letter saying he did not receive  advice was 
issued on the same date as the advice document. He would expect the document to 
predate the alleged discussion. 
Because agreement  could  not be reached, this case has been passed back to me for review.
Ref: DRN29580554my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide  if the business has done anything  wrong  in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress
and inconvenience  suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position
and I am grateful  to them for doing  so. I have  considered these submissions in their entirety.
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to
be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every
point raised in detail,  but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching  them.
I dont think the date of the letter and documents is suspicious in this instance. The letter  
confirming Mr Fs decision  to go ahead  with the transfer (after the discussion on 3 December  
2008), the illustration  and confirmation schedule were  all issued 5 December 2008. It is not 
unusual for such correspondence  to be issued  on the date of or shortly after the discussion  
in relation to the transaction. 
My findings  in respect of the wider complaint remain as set out in my provisional decision, I 
have reiterated  these below. 
It is clear from Mr Fs submissions that he feels strongly about the concerns he has raised. I
understand that this will come as a disappointment to him, but I am not persuaded that his
complaint should  be upheld.
This complaint is about the transfer of his protected rights  from his then personal pension to
his SIPP  in 2008. We cannot consider the original advice to transfer  his non-protected rights
to a SIPP in 2007. Mr F complained about this previously in 2012 and he did not refer the
complaint to us within six months of Standard Lifes final response letter.
Mr F is adamant that he did not agree to the transfer  of his protected rights  fund, that he did
not receive nor was he offered  advice and he did not receive the paperwork Standard  Life is
now relying on. Whereas Standard Life maintains that Mr F discussed the change in
legislation with its adviser and subsequently  decided to transfer his protected  rights without
receiving advice.
Standard Life has told us that a lot of the functions  of the SIPP were conducted online and
that at the time Mr F would have  been  prompted to consent to the transfer of his protected
rights online.  I have not seen evidence of this. Standard Life has provided us with the
Ref: DRN29580555contemporaneous evidence listed in the background to this complaint.  I understand Mr Fs 
strength of feeling  about this, but I have not seen any evidence that would lead me to
conclude that the paperwork is not genuine.
It is possible that Mr F did not receive these in the post, but the vast majority of correctly
addressed post is delivered, so I am not able to conclude  that it is more  likely than not that
he did not receive these.  And, in any case,  this would not be evidence  that Standard Life
transferred his protected rights  without his consent.  To conclude that, I would need to find
that the documentation was fabricated, and I am not persuaded that I can reasonably
conclude that that is likely in this case.  I have also not seen any evidence that the transfer
value Mr F received was incorrect.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2021.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2958055