K820x#14complaint
Mr Es complaint is about the way The Prudential  Assurance  Company  Limited  switched his 
funds when it was introducing newer  versions of them in July 2018. He considers  hes lost 
out financially  as a result of the way it was processed. 
background
Prudential wrote to Mr E in April 2018  to let him know it was introducing  newer versions of its 
existing funds - from Series 1 to Series 3. It said the process would start the week  of 16 July 
2018. The letter also said from 23 July 2018  some new fund options  would  become  
available.
Mr E called Prudential  on 12 April to ask about  the new fund options.  The agent said they 
wouldnt be available until 23 July. On 17 July Mr E called about  the new funds again and 
the agent asked him to send his instructions  in writing.
Mr E wrote to Prudential on 17 July 2018  requesting a switch from the Series  1 fund to a 
new fund. He said he expected the switch to override the default action  in other words to 
switch directly from Series 1. Prudential said it received the instruction on 19 July 2018.
Prudential switched the funds from Series 1 to Series 3 on 20 July. It subsequently  actioned 
his instruction to switch  to the new funds  on 31 July, but this was backdated  to the new fund 
start date of 23 July.
Mr E complained to Prudential about  the matter. Prudential acknowledged that it hadnt 
given Mr E information about the switch as hed asked. And although it thought it had 
switched the funds correctly, it didnt think its letter from April 2018 made it clear that the 
default switch  would  be done  between  16 July and 22 July and that the Series  1 fund would  
be closed after that date. It offered Mr E £175  in total for the inconvenience caused.
Mr E didnt accept the offer and referred  the matter to us. And one of our investigators 
looked into his concerns.  She thought the April 2018  letter  from Prudential  made  it clear  
when the switches  to the Series 3 funds would begin. But the letter didnt make clear  when  
the switches were due to be completed.
However the investigator didnt think that Mr E would  have  acted differently if the letter      
had explained  the default switches would be completed between 16 and 22 July. This was 
because the new fund options didnt  become  available until 23 July 2018. So Mr E wasnt 
able to switch  directly from the Series 1 funds to the new fund. 
The investigator also didnt think Mr E had lost out financially as a result  of how Prudential  
had carried out the switch  from Series 1 to 3  the same value had been transferred.  And 
although Prudential  hadnt carried out the switch to the new funds until 31 July, it had 
backdated the switch to the 23 July. 
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators findings.  He didnt think the transaction  was a 
switch as defined in the Member Booklet as in this case the action was initiated by 
Prudential.  He noted the booklet said the bid price  of the fund was the value of the fund 
divided by the number of units and he said he would like us to audit Prudential's calculations 
to confirm that the bid price used was the real fund value divided by the number of units.  And 
that it had not made any further  'tweaks'.
Ref: DRN25356402He also said that although Prudential had said the new funds werent available  until 23 July 
they had been available  for a number of years. And he provided evidence  to show this. He 
said Prudential hadnt given any reason why the move was necessary. He said he was 
alerted to the new funds in the same letter as the information about the switch, and there 
was no warning that the move might incur  a cost. When he wrote to confirm his request for a 
direct transfer he wasnt told this wasnt possible or again that a cost might  be incurred. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, its a firms own commercial decision as to what  funds it wants to offer and for 
what products. It may be that some funds  are only available  through certain products.  Im  
satisfied Prudential is entitled to choose to cease access to a certain  fund or only offer 
certain funds from certain dates  even if they are available through  other products. Mr E 
already had a pension  with Prudential and was invested in a certain fund(s).  So I think 
whats material here is that, when deciding to withdraw funds as it was entitled  to do, it 
allowed Mr E to switch funds without incurring additional costs.
Like the investigator, although I think Prudential could have been clearer in its April 2018  
letter (and in fact when Mr E contacted  it), I dont think Mr E lost out as a result of the switch 
of the Series 1 fund at the bid price. At some point  the units would be sold.  The bid price  
reflected the actual  value. And the subsequent switches used single  prices  to buy and sell. 
Id agree with Mr Es view on costs  if hed been switched to other bid/offer priced funds  and 
Prudential had used  an offer price to buy.  But this wasnt the case  here  the actual value 
was re-invested  on a single price basis. And there wasnt any further  costs  or pricing spread 
on the subsequent sales; in this case either  to the series 3 funds or the newly available  
funds on 23 July 2018.
I also think the timing of the availability  of the new funds has clouded  matters  given the 
proximity of the cessation of the Series 1 funds to the availability  of the new funds. It wasnt  
possible for Mr E to switch directly  from the Series 1 funds to the new funds  the closure of 
the Series 1 fund was prior to the availability of the new funds  albeit only a very short 
period. I think if the new funds had become available a few weeks later it would have  been  
clear there would be a period of time that Mr E would be in the Series 3 fund (or another 
fund available  at that time). So even if Prudential  had explained things more clearly,  the fact 
of the matter was that there  was going to be a very short period between the end of the 
Series 1 and the availability of the new funds. So Mr E was always  going  to have a period of 
investment in another fund  which would be subject to market  risk. 
Mr E has said hed like us to audit the fund to ensure the full fund value  is fully reflected in 
the bid prices. Whilst I understand that Mr E may be suspicious of Prudential  generally given 
his experiences, he hasnt provided  any persuasive  evidence that Prudential  is valuing its 
fund incorrectly. Its not our role to carry out a regulatory  audit  as we do not regulate  financial 
businesses or supervise  or monitor the management of its funds  that is the role of the 
industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority.  
Having carefully considered all the circumstances, Im satisfied that Prudential  was entitled 
to withdraw the availability of the Series 1 fund for Mr Es particular product. And that 
Ref: DRN25356403although it could  have been clearer with Mr E, it didnt process the switches  in an 
inappropriate manner.
my final decision
I am aware  that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited made  an offer of £175 in total 
for the distress and inconvenience caused  by the lack of clarity in its communications  with 
Mr E. I conclude  that the offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  My decision is 
that The Prudential  Assurance Company Limited should pay Mr E £175  (if it hasnt already 
done so).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2535640