K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that a new car he got with a hire agreement from Volkswagen Financial  
Services (UK) Limited (trading as Skoda Finance) was of unsatisfactory quality. 
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 6 August  2019. A copy of my provisional decision is attached and this forms 
part of my final decision. In my provisional decision I explained what  Id decided about this 
complaint and what I intended  to do  subject to any further submissions from the parties.
Mr C is most disappointed by my provisional  findings. He feels that Im biased  and I have 
just taken the side of the business. He says (in summary)
the cars  occupants can testify that it was running perfectly until the breakdown;
a highly  experienced  local garage  owner and the recovery technician  who inspected  the 
car when it broke down  both witnessed  the fuel assembly was leaking but untouched 
from its standard configuration; 
AC damaged the fuel assembly, filmed the video after the botched repair and 
misrepresented what  happened;
the fact that the AC technician I spoke to answered questions without hesitation  is not 
relevant to his credibility;
AC has no witnesses and I should  not have accepted what  it said;
Mr C has shown that the fault was a failed fuel seal, this is a warrantable item and it was 
wrong of Skoda  Finance  to refuse  to accept that; 
I have tried to discredit Mr C by demanding proof,  ignoring  his witnesses and accepting 
what the business said without question;
it is wrong that the burden of proof  has been  placed on Mr C while the business  has not 
been required  to prove anything; 
modifications done in the past are not relevant and its unreasonable to assume  that 
Mr C must have  damaged  or modified the fuel system  just because  he undertook 
modifications to a totally unrelated part of the car.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr C has strong feelings about what happened here, both in terms of the 
trouble he had with the car and his complaint. I want to reassure him that Ive looked at the 
evidence again  and considered all of the points hes made very carefully.  I hope  Mr C will 
understand that I concentrate on what I think is material to the complaint. So, if I have not 
commented on any one particular point, its not because Ive failed to consider it - but rather 
I dont think I need  to address it specifically in order to reach a fair and correct  outcome.
Ref: DRN27842982As I explained in my provisional decision,  this service provides informal  dispute resolution. 
When we investigate a complaint we gather evidence,  check facts and endeavour to provide 
a level playing field between the consumer and the business. Its my job to assess the 
available evidence and attach appropriate  weight in reaching the outcome that I consider  to 
be fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. 
I realise Mr C feels I have  not taken his side, but I am required to consider this matter 
objectively and impartially. Where parties  disagree  about what  happened in the way they 
have here,  and some of the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, I make  my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. In other  words, I consider what is most likely to have 
happened given  the available evidence and wider circumstances.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr C but I am afraid nothing he has said has persuaded me that 
there are reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional findings. I cant be certain what 
caused the fuel leak but, given the time Mr C had the car and distance he was able to travel  
before the leak occurred,  I think its unlikely to have resulted from an inherent  issue that was 
present at the outset. Weighing up the available evidence, I am not persuaded it is likely that 
AC damaged the fuel assembly and covered this up either. So, for the reasons I set out in 
my provisional decision, I remain of the view that Skoda Finance has not done anything  
wrong here and I am unable to uphold this complaint. 
Mr C is not obliged to accept my decision in which case it remains open to him to pursue this 
matter by other means, which may include taking action through the courts.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Claire Jackson 
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN27842983copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr C complains that a new car he got with a hire agreement from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (trading as Skoda Finance)  was of unsatisfactory quality. 
background
Mr C got this car in 2015  with a four year hire agreement from Skoda  Finance. In April 2018 the car 
broke down,  leaking fuel, and had to be recovered. The breakdown service told Mr C it looked  as if 
the problem was in the fuel injection/fuel rail assembly. It recovered the car to a local dealership (that 
Ill call AC) for inspection and repair. 
AC found the fuel rail was bent and a bolt had sheared off. It considered  this was probably the result 
of modifications  carried out after the car was supplied  and concluded that repairs  required werent  
covered by the manufacturers warranty. AC asked Mr C to pay over £500 for repairs. He felt this was 
unfair and complained to Skoda Finance. 
Skoda Finance says video  evidence AC provided  shows the fuel rail was tampered with, a retaining 
bolt was removed and theres evidence the car was modified without consent  - in breach of the hire 
agreement (section 4.8). Skoda Finance is not responsible for non-warrantable  repairs under  the 
terms of the hire agreement and considers it shouldnt  have to pay for repairs or refund any monthly  
repayments. 
Mr C arranged  for the car to be transported to another dealer (that Ill call V) to be fixed. He says V 
told him the breakdown was caused by a failed seal and the fuel rail was probably  damaged when 
someone tried to remove parts forcibly. He thinks AC is responsible  for this damage but didnt want  to 
admit that because  it would have had to pay for repairs. 
Mr C accepts that both he and a local garage made some modifications to the car previously. He says 
these werent  located anywhere near the fuel rail. And the work was done soon after he got the car - 
so if this had caused any problems he would have had trouble much sooner 
Mr C believes failed seals are a known  issue in this kind of car and this repair should have been 
covered by the manufacturers warranty. He contacted the manufacturer  and it agreed to pay for half the 
cost of repairs, as a goodwill gesture. He considers this shows  there was an inherent fault that should  
have been repaired  under warranty and it was wrong of Skoda Finance to accept what  AC said. He 
wants Skoda  Finance to refund two hire payments for the time the car was off the road for repairs. 
Our investigator is satisfied  this car should  have  been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.  
Based on video evidence supplied by AC, hes accepts a bolt was missing,  the fuel rail was 
misaligned and fuel was leaking  from the car when  it was recovered. He thinks this probably caused 
the breakdown.  
Hes not persuaded  that Mr C would  have  been  able to drive the car around 25,000 miles over two 
and a half years if this issue was present when  the car was supplied. He thinks  it is unlikely  the 
damage resulted  from a manufacturing defect and it is more likely  than not the result of work done 
after Mr C got the car. 
Hes satisfied  that Skoda Finance looked into what Mr C said about AC possibly damaging the 
engine. And hes not persuaded it was unreasonable of Skoda Finance to accept this wasnt a 
warrantable repair, in the circumstances. He doesnt think Skoda Finance  did anything wrong and 
doesnt recommend it should have  to do anything further.  
Ref: DRN27842984Mr C feels  this outcome  is unfair. He says (in summary) 
our investigator misrepresented his complaint and didnt investigate properly  or look at this 
impartially;
his issue with Skoda  Finance is that it contracted  to provide a roadworthy vehicle continuously  for 
48 months  from 5 November 2018 and the payment he makes every month includes the cost of 
the manufacturers warranty;
it is obvious the car was not satisfactory at the point of breakdown. The recovery technician  said 
there was a problem with the fuel rail and V found a failed  rubber fuel injector seal - which is a 
common fault in this make and model; 
the car failed due to a fault in the fuel system which  is covered by the manufacturers warranty.  
The manufacturer has since  accepted a warrantable  item failed and paid half the cost of repairs;
V found fuel rail bolt one had its head snapped, fuel rail bolt two was seized  and the fuel rail itself 
was bent by someone trying to manhandle  it off with the bolts  still in place;
he accepts  a snapped  bolt and bent fuel rail could never be considered  a manufacturing  defect 
but considers AC probably  misrepresented  the outcome  of a botched repair  - because it would  
have had to pay to fix that otherwise;
this damage is the reason the faulty seal was reported  as non-warrantable, meaning  he had to 
part pay for repairs and was without the car for two months;  
Skoda Finance   should have done more to hold AC to account; and
our investigator should have pressed AC further about the cause of the damage.  
Mr C wants  Skoda Finance to reimburse two months payments and the cost of moving the car to have 
repairs done  elsewhere.  He asked for an ombudsman  to review the matter.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  
I have spoken to Mr C about what happened here. I have no doubt  he feels  strongly that Skoda 
Finance has treated him unfairly and it was wrong  to accept  what AC said about the cause of the 
damage to the car. 
Mr C brings his complaint  to the Financial Ombudsman  Service  because  he acquired this car from 
Skoda Finance under a hire agreement. And I should make it clear that I am looking at Skoda  
Finances obligations arising out of that finance agreement. I can see that Mr C is unhappy with ACs 
actions as well. But, I do not have the power  to look into those - except insofar  as it impacts on Skoda 
Finances obligations. 
 
I am satisfied  that Skoda  Finance was required to supply  a car of satisfactory quality at the point of 
hire. This car was new and I think Mr C was entitled to expect it to be fault free at the point of supply. 
As far as I can see, Mr C reported no issues with the car for more than two years and it had over 
25,000 miles  on the clock when it broke down in April 2018.
Theres no dispute that the cause of the breakdown  was a leak from the fuel rail assembly. I think the 
crux of the matter here is what  caused  that. Mr C says it was a failed seal - which  is manufacturing 
defect and a known issue in cars of this type - meaning  repairs should have been  covered by the 
manufacturers warranty. 
Ref: DRN27842985AC, on the other hand, says it found bolts securing the fuel rail were damaged and the fuel rail was 
bent when the car was recovered. It thinks this probably resulted from modifications  Mr C arranged  
previously and caused the leak that led to the breakdown. Mr C says thats not right - as theres  
nothing to modify on the fuel rail and the work  he had done was nowhere near that location. 
I have spoken to the technician  who checked the car when it was recovered  to AC after the 
breakdown. Ill refer to him as D. He told me the fuel rail was half-undone when the car came in - it 
was held on by two bolts, one was half out and he could  see a leak from the injector nearest to the 
loose bolt. 
D also noticed  some  non-Skoda parts and things  were  not clipped in properly. He thought someone 
must have been working on the car so he didn't attempt to remove or access  anything. He called  a 
colleague over instead and they decided  to record some video footage  as it looked  as if the repair 
was not warrantable and there might be an issue.
I explained to D that V repaired the car after that and told Mr C the problem was a faulty fuel seal. D 
agreed it is likely the fuel seal was damaged but - based on what he saw - he thinks  this was probably 
due to the modification work. I asked D why it would  have  taken  so long for this catastrophic leak to 
occur if the modifications were done some time ago. He said it would depend on what  was done 
exactly and parts could have become  loose over time. 
I found what  D said to be credible. I think he seemed  to have a fairly clear recollection of events - he 
was able to answer my questions without hesitation. But, I appreciate Mr C says V told him that the fuel 
leak itself was due to a faulty seal and the other damage caused by a botched repair. Ive seen Vs 
invoice for the repair work. This sets out the work undertaken but doesnt give a view as to the likely 
cause so I spoke to V to see if it could provide more  information. The relevant  technician  didnt 
remember much about the repair - due to the passage of time. V was able to confirm  that a fuel seal 
failed and was replaced but it couldnt say what might have  caused that failure - and/or any other 
damage. Mr C told me that V actually  gave him the faulty seal it removed at the time but he didnt think 
to keep that so its not available for inspection  - which  doesnt take matters much further, unfortunately.
This service provides  informal dispute resolution. I dont have the power to compel or cross-examine  
witnesses. Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or contradictory (as some  of it is here),  I reach  
my decision  on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what  I consider is most  likely to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence  and the wider circumstances.  
I appreciate Mr C feels that he has, in effect, been asked to prove  that this car had an inherent fault 
and he thinks thats unfair. I have no reason to doubt what Mr C says but I cant  be certain what  
happened to this car after it was supplied,  on the evidence I have at the moment. 
I am satisfied  that AC is an authorised dealer  with qualified mechanics who inspected  this car shortly 
after the breakdown. I appreciate Mr C feels AC has its own reasons  for saying the cause of that 
breakdown was not an inherent issue - but I am not persuaded theres enough evidence  to fairly 
conclude that is the case. And I dont think it was unreasonable of Skoda Finance to accept  what AC 
said, in this situation. 
Mr C accepts the car was modified after he got it. I understand  he undertook some of those 
modifications himself - and arranged for others to be carried out by a local garage. I have considered  
the points Mr C made about the location of the modifications - and the time thats passed since the 
work was done - carefully. But, given the length of time Mr C had the car - and the distance he was 
able to cover  during that time - I am minded to find it unlikely that this breakdown was due to a fault 
thats been  present since the outset. 
I acknowledge the manufacturer  agreed to pay for half the cost of repairs. But, I am satisfied it did so 
as a goodwill gesture. It did not, as far as I can see, accept  that this car had a defect which  should 
have been repaired  under warranty. 
Ref: DRN27842986On balance overall,  I am not currently persuaded that Skoda Finance has done  anything  wrong. And I 
do not think there are enough fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. I invite both 
parties to consider what Ive said and let me have any further submissions by the date below. After  
that Ill review all the available evidence and make my final decision.   
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions that I may receive from the parties  by 6 September 2019, my 
provisional decision  is I do not intend  to uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN2784298