K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc refused to refund a disputed  transaction  
and then closed  his account.
background
Mr G complained about a payment to W  a money  transfer company.  He  said he hadnt 
made the payment and didnt recognise  it.  He also said he didnt hold an account with W.
RBS looked into the matter but decided it was going to hold Mr G liable for the transaction.  It 
also made a commercial decision to close his account  as it no longer wanted  to do business 
with him.  So, when his complaint was rejected, Mr G came to this service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint and also spoke to W to see how this transaction  
could have been possible.  On the basis of what she was told, she concluded that she could 
not ask RBS to do anymore.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, RBS is required to refund an unauthorised transaction  the relevant 
rules say it must.   And Mr Gs card being used  to authenticate the payment isnt sufficient for 
it to hold him liable.   RBS  need to show that Mr G also consented   to the payment being 
made.
From the evidence I have  seen, I am satisfied that Mr Gs genuine card was used to make 
the payment he disputes.  What I then need to decide is whether he consented to it.  
Based on what I have seen, I think he did. I say that for the following reasons:
-Mr G was always in possession of his card so the chances  of someone else being 
able to use it and replace it were minimal, if at all possible;
-the IP address used to make the payment was an IP address  which  had been used 
on numerous occasions by Mr G and he does not query that usage;
-the details  which W holds on the account used to transfer money into are the same  
as those which this service holds for Mr G;
-the disputed  transaction  was carried out on 5th April 2018  yet Mr G only raised the 
complaint on 11th April.  This was despite  having logged onto his account during that 
time and no doubt, having seen the payment  go out of his account;
I know Mr G has said that he does not have any reason  to send any money to anyone  using 
the services of W.  But my role is to decide  whether RBS has done  anything wrong in 
rejecting Mr Gs complaint.  Based on what I have seen,  I dont think it has.
With regards the closure of his account,  generally  speaking, this service  would not interfere 
with that commercial decision.   However,  I am pleased to see that Mr G was provided with 
notice of RBSs  decision  to do so.
Ref: DRN24751262my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2475126