K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains Tesco Mobile Limited  lent to him irresponsibly when he took out a mobile 
phone contract with it.
background
In November 2016, Mr P took out a point of sale loan with Tesco Mobile  to finance a new 
mobile handset.  The amount borrowed was £780,  to be repaid over 24 months. No interest  
was payable, and the monthly repayments  were  £32.50 for the credit  and £15 for the airtime.  
Mr P failed to make  the contractual payments from the outset, and Tesco Mobile  received 
the first and only payment in March 2017. Due to the level of arrears, the account was 
defaulted a few months later.
In November 2018, Mr P complained to Tesco Mobile about irresponsible lending.  He was 
unhappy it didnt  check his financial position or bank statements before approving the loan 
as he felt it should have assessed  affordability and his ability to repay adequately. Mr P also 
complained Tesco Mobile didnt take his existing medical condition into consideration. In its 
response, Tesco Mobile explained it didnt request income or expenditure information  as it 
deemed it unnecessary  for the size of the loan. But a credit check  was completed which was 
successful. 
Mr P referred the matter to our office. Our investigator didnt think  Tesco  Mobile lent 
irresponsibly to Mr P. She explained  his credit report showed Mr P had defaulted on three 
loans in 2012-13.  But between then and November 2016, when he took out this loan, there 
werent any issues with repayments  and there wasnt anything  untoward that ought to have 
put Tesco Mobile on notice. The investigator was satisfied the affordability checks Tesco  
Mobile carried out were  proportionate to the amount borrowed. She also explained the 
application was made online and so Tesco Mobile  wouldnt  have  known about  Mr Ps 
medical condition.  As Mr P met Tesco Mobiles  credit score criteria,  she didnt think it did 
anything wrong  in lending to him. 
Mr P asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman as he disagreed  with the 
investigators findings. He reiterated his concerns about his medical condition not being 
considered and explained Tesco Mobile  would have been aware  of his financial 
circumstances had his bank statements been  requested at the time. Since the matter being 
referred to me for decision,  Mr Ps informed our investigator that Tesco  Mobile has sold the 
debt to a third party.
I issued my provisional decision upholding this complaint  on 13 December 2019.  In summary 
I provisionally upheld  the complaint because:
Tesco Mobile didnt  co-operate with our investigation and provide a copy of the credit 
check it carried out on Mr P in November 2016.  The only evidence left was a credit  
report from two years  later, provided by Mr P.
The report showed eight credit checks in the month of application, several pay day 
loans and other forms of lending (15) leading up to the application  and three defaults 
in 2013.
Given this information, I wasnt persuaded the credit assessment based on the credit  
check was sufficient  or proportionate and Tesco Mobile should  have  asked for bank 
statements. And had it done so the statements would have shown Mr P gambling 
Ref: DRN23897182large sums of money and payments to payday  lenders, leaving no, or very little, 
disposable income.
I wasnt persuaded it was acting  fairly  or reasonable when it agreed to lend.  
The loan was interest free and Mr P had had a tangible asset as a result of the 
lending  a mobile  phone. I therefore required Tesco Mobile to amend  Mr Ps credit  
file to show the lending had never been  arranged.  
Mr P agreed to my provisional decision.  Tesco  Mobile didnt. It provided a copy of the results 
of the credit  check it carried out on Mr P. This showed minimal lending,  minimal credit 
checks and old defaults. As such it was satisfied the assessment was proportionate and the 
lending responsible. I therefore  issued  a further  provisional decision, that took the new 
evidence into account. I was no longer minded to uphold the complaint. 
Tesco Mobile replied,  saying  it accepted  the outcome. But Mr P didnt. In summary, he said:
We arent consistent in the way we have  approached his complaints or applied  the 
regulatory requirements. 
Hes unhappy that Tesco  Mobile was given  another chance to provide the credit 
check, whereas  in another  of his cases, he wasnt given a further opportunity to 
provide his bank  statements even though they would  have  made a difference.  
He has cited other  parts of the regulations  which he believes are relevant. 
He says the credit searches would have  shown the name of the lenders, and his 
income and expenditure and it would have shown he had no disposable income and 
that he was borrowing  with payday  lenders. He argues this should have prompted  it 
into doing further checks. 
He has provided  evidence of a loan in November 2016,  him taking out a mail order  
account and that his credit score was low. 
I will respond to Mr Ps points in my findings  below. 
the regulatory framework
Tesco Mobile was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
throughout the period  it lent to Mr P. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms 
are required  to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.  
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC) (at the time of lending  in November 2016)
Ref: DRN23897183This set out the rules  which applied to providers of consumer credit like Tesco Mobile. 
CONC 5 set out a firms obligations  in relation to responsible lending. ILG is reference  back  
to sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance .
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It said a firm must  consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also included guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contained further  guidance on what a lender should have borne in mind when 
thinking about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) said:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then said:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
Ref: DRN23897184CONC 5.3.1G(6) went on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
had a reference to paragraphs  4.13, 4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and stated:
it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers  
income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the customer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I would firstly like to clarify that I issued my first provisional decision as I disagreed with the 
investigators view not to uphold Mr Ps complaint  based on the evidence  I had at the time. It 
wasnt, as Mr P has sought to argue, to specifically allow Tesco  Mobile to provide a copy  of 
the credit  check.  As Mr P knows,  this is something we had been asking for, for some 
considerable time. 
As per the rules under  which  we operate, because I was reaching a different outcome  to that 
of the investigator, I was required to let both parties  know the reasons for my findings in 
advance of reaching a final decision. This is so that both parties understand the outcome Im 
minded to reach and provide further evidence if they wish. Tesco Mobile used this 
opportunity to provide the evidence we had been  asking  for, and once it had done  so, it was 
right for me to take into account; just as I had taken the evidence both Mr P and Tesco  
Mobile had provided  to that point. I understand Mr P is unhappy  that he wasnt provided a 
second opportunity  to give the evidence we had asked for in another case, but that isnt a 
matter for me to address  here. 
As noted above,  there arent any set checks a lender has to carry out. But the checks  should  
be proportionate to the size of the loan, the repayments and the borrowers  lending  history. 
While we dont expect  lenders to tell us specific details of their lending criteria, we do expect 
them to be able to show us that they reasonably assessed the borrowers  ability to repay 
what they were borrowing.
Tesco Mobile provided the outcome  of the credit  check it carried out on Mr P in November 
2016 in response  to my first provisional decision.  So, I needed to take the contents  of the 
credit check  into account in deciding whether it carried out an appropriate credit assessment. 
Ref: DRN23897185As I said in my first provisional findings, the requirement is for proportionate checks to be 
carried out. And I wouldnt expect the same kind of check  to be carried out for a mobile 
phone contract as I would  for a mortgage. But I would  expect  a lender to have sufficient 
checks and balances in place to ensure it is lending responsibly and sustainably.
Tesco Mobile was lending £780  for a mobile  phone handset over a period of 24 months at a 
total of £47.50 a month including airtime. And there was no interest payable on the contract. 
Given the amount  and length of the lending, I wouldnt expect Tesco  Mobile to carry out an 
in-depth review into Mr Ps finances. So I wouldnt necessarily  expect  it to review bank 
statements as part of its credit assessment unless there was something in the credit check  
that I thought should have alerted it to possible financial hardship or it being  unaffordable.
I have considered the credit check provided  by Tesco Mobile. I think  it important to note the 
credit reference agency that Tesco Mobile has used is different to that used by Mr P. I think  
it also important to point  out that if information  is provided to a credit  reference agency by a 
lender, it doesnt  have  to be provided  to all of them.  This means that quite often there is 
difference in the information provided by different credit reference agencies.  
The credit check shows Mr P had four defaults  from 2012 with one of those being settled in 
2016, a few months prior to the application  and another settled in 2014.  There  was a bank 
account which was up to date; and two others  that had arrears  in earlier in 2016 but the 
arrears were  cleared  in months before November. Mr P also had two other credit accounts,  
one which  was up to date and another which had arrears in April but was up to date by May 
2016. There was also a recent mail order account  and three credit searches carried out in 
March, September  and October 2016.      
Mr P has argued that all credit reference agencies provide information about income and so 
it would  have been apparent to Tesco Mobile  that he had no disposable income  at the end of 
the month.  
I have never  seen a credit  check provide  information on income  and expenditure, outside of 
monthly repayments to credit. However,  I am aware  that some  credit reference agencies  
offer a form of affordability check to lenders, if they opt for this. But its my understanding  this 
check is carried out based on Office of National Statistics data on incomes and average 
spending in an area, rather than the individual. Having reviewed the credit  information Tesco 
Mobile received  it doesnt contain,  nor is there  an area for it to contain, information  on Mr Ps 
income and monthly  disposable income levels. But even if it had, it appears it wouldnt have 
been based on Mr Ps actual circumstances. 
Mr P has also argued that Tesco should  have taken into account who he was borrowing from 
before it agreed  to lend. I do understand the argument he makes,  particularly if any arrears  
or cleared credit could have been  with payday  or other high cost short term lenders. But the 
information Tesco received didnt give the name  of the credit provider, only the type of 
lending i.e. communication supplier.  Its my understanding  that lenders can obtain different 
levels of information  from credit reference agencies from very basic  information to more  in-
depth. It isnt unreasonable for a relatively  small lender  that doesnt charge  interest, not to 
get the most  in-depth check  it can  this is a proportionate check.
I accept that Mr Ps report from 2018 showed  he had pay day loans, and more credit 
searches against  his history.  But they arent  evident  on Tesco Mobiles  search. This could be 
because the relevant lenders dont  send information  to the credit  reference agency used by 
Ref: DRN23897186Tesco Mobile, or that the loans and searches  were  so recent they hadnt yet updated  to his 
history.  
Mr P has provided evidence of the mail-order catalogue he signed up to, and of a loan he 
took out in November 2016. I have never doubted  Mr P had this borrowing, particularly as I 
have had access to his bank statements and his credit  report from two years  later.  The issue  
is what information Tesco Mobile had and whether it had carried  out a proportionate  check.  I 
would also add that different lenders update  credit  files at different times, some update every 
day and others every  28 days or more. Mr Ps loan was taken out on 11 November 2016 and 
this contract just a few days  later. There is no evidence  of it on the credit  information Tesco  
Mobile received  (the mail-order catalogue  is). 
In all, the search carried out by Tesco Mobile showed aged  defaults from four years  prior 
one of which had been settled in 2016   not generally the actions  of someone in financial 
difficulties. And all other credit accounts were up to date with no outstanding arrears at the 
time. Im not persuaded the information  contained  in the credit search would suggest Mr P 
was in financial difficulties, or that he might not be able to sustain repayments. As such, Im 
not persuaded there would have  been  any reason for Tesco Mobile to do a more in-depth 
review, such as requesting bank  statements.  
Mr P has argued that CONC  5.2.A15  is a key consideration.  However, this rule wasnt  in 
place at the time Mr P entered into the credit agreement, and it is the rules  in place at the 
time that are relevant  (which I have set out above and taken account of). 
I appreciate and accept  that Mr Ps actual situation was different. But Tesco Mobile  was only 
able to act on the information it had. And Im satisfied the check  it carried out was 
proportionate given Mr Ps earnings, the size of the loan and the amount and number of 
repayments. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint as Im satisfied it acted fairly and 
reasonably when agreeing to lend. As such,  I no longer require it to amend Mr Ps credit file 
 as I find Tesco Mobile was acting fairly, then his history  should reflect  whats happened. 
Finally, Mr P is concerned  he has received inconsistent outcomes for the lending  complaints 
hes had with us. I have considered the individual circumstances of this complaint  when  
reaching my decision. The type of lending Mr P has complained about  is different across his 
complaints and so the proportionate check  will be too. And I understand that in the other 
cases, lenders  either only relied on its own repayment history (no external check) or had full 
details from Mr P; completely different to the situation here. As the lending was different, and 
the information and check different, that is likely  to result in different outcomes.  That doesnt 
mean we have been inconsistent, only that different circumstances will result in different 
outcomes.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2389718