K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about a debt Lowell Financial Ltd is asking  him to repay.
background
Mr A had an overdrawn account with a bank Ill call B. In 2013, Lowell bought this debt from 
B and wrote to Mr A to explain that this is what had happened and asking him to pay the 
money back.
Mr A disputed that he owed the money. He said B had mis-sold him PPI which caused him 
to be in debt. He said that because B owed  him money for mis-selling the PPI, that meant  he 
didnt have to pay back this debt to Lowell.
Lowell spoke to B, who said Mr A didnt have PPI on this particular bank account. So Lowell 
told Mr A it still thought it was entitled  to pursue the debt.  Mr A didnt agree, and in 2014 
Lowell obtained  a county court judgement (CCJ) against Mr A in relation to the debt.
Mr A maintained he didnt  have to pay this money  back because  of what he was owed by B 
for mis-selling him PPI. In 2016 he complained to Lowell, reiterating  his argument and also 
saying it (and its agents)  had harassed him for a debt hed shown he didnt have  to pay. He 
added that due to the time that had passed he also considered Lowell were too late to 
pursue him for the debt anymore because it was now statute-barred.
One of our investigators  looked into things and concluded Lowell had acted fairly towards 
Mr A. He thought it was reasonable for Lowell  to have thought this debt was payable, and 
that if Mr A disputed the enforceability  of the debt for any reason, that was something only 
the courts could  decide upon.  He didnt think Lowell had been  unreasonable  in the way it 
had pursued the debt,  and thought any concerns  Mr A had about the PPI hed been sold 
were between him and B and not something Lowell could be held responsible for.
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. He said Lowell should 
have known B owed  him money and stopped  pursuing him for the debt.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator said, whether or not the debt Lowells pursuing Mr A for is enforceable or 
not is ultimately a decision for the courts. I can see Mr A intends to challenge the debt in 
court, and, if he doesnt accept it, this decision wont preclude him from raising any 
arguments he chooses to do there.
What Ive had to consider is whether Lowell acted fairly in pursuing Mr A for this debt.
Mr A argues  his debt is clearly statute-barred because he stopped paying it in 2010.  But 
Lowell obtained  a CCJ in relation to this debt in 2014, which  effectively resets  the clock for 
whether or not a debt is too old to be pursued. So I dont think  its unreasonable for Lowell to 
continue asking Mr A to pay this debt now.
Ref: DRN23011012Mr As also said Lowell shouldnt be pursuing him because  his debt only arose due to PPI he 
was sold by B  and that Bs now acknowledged  this and paid him some compensation. Its 
important here to separate the issues Mr A has with B, and the sale of the PPI - and the 
actions of Lowell in pursuing the debt which Mr A built up in an overdraft on his current 
account.
Mr A didnt have PPI on his overdraft,  he had it with some loans he took out with B. He may 
argue that the PPI on his loans contributed  to his financial difficulties, which  resulted  in the 
overdraft Lowell is now pursuing him for. But thats something B would  be responsible for 
and a complaint  which  should be directed at B, not Lowell. 
Lastly, Ive looked at the correspondence and call records between  Lowell and Mr A over the 
years. Having done so Im satisfied it acted  appropriately and fairly  in the frequency  and tone 
of its letters  and conversations,  pursuing  a debt I think it was reasonable for Lowell to have 
thought it was owed. 
So overall Im not persuaded Lowell  treated  Mr A unreasonably. If Mr A still disputes  the debt 
its asking him to pay, he can argue  his case in court. And if he thinks the debt arose 
because of something B did wrong,  he can complain to B about that.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2301101