K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them  two Total  
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) policies in 2003,  with their joint mortgage. 
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) together with other features,  such as life insurance and critical illness cover 
(CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the consumer 
wishes. 
In this particular  case, Mr S was covered for all elements of the TMPP, that is to say PPI, life 
and CIC. 
Mrs S was only ever covered for life / CIC.
background
One of our adjudicators has looked at their complaint and told Mr and Mrs S that they didnt 
think the PPI part should be upheld. 
However, for the life / CIC elements of the policy, our adjudicator thought  Mr and Mrs S 
should have been sold decreasing term assurance, instead of level term assurance.  This is 
because their outstanding mortgage debt was being  gradually reduced  so their payments 
for the life / CIC cover should have reflected this over time too. 
Halifax has agreed with this. But when it looked  into the price difference in the two types of 
insurance, it found the decreasing term cover  wasnt actually any cheaper in 2003 than the 
level term type. We do often see these situations  arise and so it means Mr and Mrs S arent 
therefore due back any money for the life / CIC elements. 
Put another way, they havent  lost any money because of the way the life / CIC cover was 
set up for them.
Mr and Mrs S still think all the TMPP elements  were  mis-sold, because  they never agreed to 
them. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
did Mr and Mrs S agree  to the TMPP?
Mr and Mrs S took out the first TMPP in March 2003  with their mortgage. They took out the 
second TMPP in September 2003  essentially because the first one hadnt been  set up 
correctly. It doesnt look like they kept the cover for very long before cancelling it.
Ref: DRN25974272These events were obviously a long time ago now. We dont have much documentary 
evidence to refer to because Halifax no longer has any copies. This is unfortunate, but not 
particularly unusual given  how long ago  the  sales were.
However, Ive looked at the main points  of complaint put forward on Mr and Mrs Ss behalf. 
The key one is that all these types  of cover were added without Mr and Mrs Ss consent or 
knowledge. Whilst I accept this may well be their genuine belief now, weve seen quite a 
few similar  sales  to this from that time period. And as a result,  weve looked in detail  at what  
Halifaxs sales processes  were like.
We know for example  that consumers were  normally  sent or given a letter about the types 
of cover theyd agreed to at the mortgage  interview. This usually set out that consumers, 
like Mr and Mrs S, had accepted the recommendation  to have certain, or all, elements of 
the TMPP policy.
We were also sent some  screenshots of Halifaxs internal computer system. Ive seen  
quite a few of these  before and I also know from experience  that they show, as in this case,  
that Mr and Mrs S were asked several questions relating  to the cover theyd agreed to buy. 
Because I think what was keyed into the Halifax computer system,  would  have been  
contemporaneous  that is to say, done at the time of the mortgage interview  I think  I can 
reliably say that all aspects of the TMPP were probably discussed in some detail. 
I also know that in this case, the change from the first policy  (March  2003) to the second 
policy (September 2003)  was carried  out due to them  being  smokers not being correctly 
noted on their life / CIC policy schedules. As this wouldve affected the accuracy and price 
of the policy, it needed  to be changed.
Finally, I can see that whilst the life / CIC elements were sold to both Mr and Mrs S, only Mr 
S was insured  under the PPI. To me, this further  evidences that they discussed different 
forms of protection  with Halifax  and had thought about what  they wanted to do.
So overall, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs S agreed to the TMPP at the time of the 
mortgage interview and sale.  
were Mr and Mrs S given suitable recommendations?
Halifax accepts it recommended the TMPP to Mr and Mrs S. So it had a duty to ensure it 
was suitable for them.
Ive already said that there was probably a discussion between  the parties.  And I dont 
believe any of the protections Mr and Mrs S had with their jobs rendered PPI, life protection  
or CIC unsuitable for them.  Mr and Mrs S were relatively young at the time and not 
uncommonly, they were  taking on a mortgage  which I think  would have been a long term 
commitment for them. 
The life / CIC cover was designed  to help their family cope with unforeseen or sudden 
financial uncertainty and I dont  think it was unreasonable that Halifax recommended  these  
elements as part of the overall TMPP policy. 
For the PPI element, I find the recommendation to have  this also to be suitable.  Only Mr S 
decided to buy it and he appears to have  been  eligible  for the PPI cover and not caught by 
any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies. Their mortgage  was also 
secured against  their home and so the consequences of them not being  able to make the 
Ref: DRN25974273repayments could  have been  serious. The PPI policy, on the other  hand,  was designed to 
pay a monthly sum for up to 24 months if he had needed to claim. 
were they given enough information?
During the sale Halifax also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. I cant say Mr and Mrs S were told or given all the information  they should  have  
been but I think they would have been  easily able to see how much the TMPP cost and what 
was covered. I think they would have also been  given a copy  of the policy rules.
Having carefully considered this case,  I think its much more  likely that Mr and Mrs S 
tailored the TMPP  cover  to suit their needs  of the time. I think  they probably agreed to the 
elements of the cover because it was something  they thought would be useful to have.  
All this means I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading  as Halifax 
doesnt need to refund everything Mr and Mrs S paid for it. But its offered to give them back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  I understand Bank of 
Scotland Plc has already  completed the arrangements  to pay them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. I dont direct Bank 
of Scotland Plc to do anything  more  than the above,  to put matters right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2597427