K820x#14complaint
Mrs K says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance
(PPI) policy.
Mrs K applied for a credit card in June  2001 and the PPI was also sold at this time.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs K disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to look into afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI to Mrs K, BoS shouldve taken  reasonable steps  to make it clear the 
policy was optional. It also shouldve  got Mrs Ks agreement to take it out. Mrs K says she 
was completely unaware the PPI had been added. As the credit  card and PPI were  taken out 
during a meeting, I dont know what was discussed. Where I have limited  information about a 
sale, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the information and evidence  I 
have seen.
BoS has given  us a copy of the application  form that was completed  at the time of sale.On 
this I can see there  is a separate section called  Payment  Protection and this has a 
statement describing the PPI. In order  to add the PPI a separate box has to be signed  and 
Mrs K has signed this box. I dont know what was discussed at the time Mrs K took out the 
card, but I wouldve  expected Mrs K to read over the form and raise any questions she had 
at the time before signing  it.
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely Mrs K knew at the time
that the PPI was optional and that she decided to take it. But I can understand why she 
might not recall this now, as the sale took place many years ago.
BoS advised Mrs K to take out the policy. So it shouldve made sure the policy  was right
for her. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ks circumstances at the time the PPI was sold,  I
think it was. I say this because:
Mrs K appears to have been  eligible for the policy.
Based  on what Mrs Ks told us about her circumstances at the time of sale she 
wouldnt have been affected by any of the things the policy didnt  cover   like known 
health issues or unusual employment  arrangements. So there was nothing to stop 
her claiming the full benefit of the policy if shed needed to.
Mrs Ks told us she wouldve received sick pay from her employer. The PPI couldve 
been of use to Mrs K as it wouldve  paid 10% of the outstanding balance on the card 
for up to 12 months if she couldnt work due to illness or if she was made redundant. 
This wouldve  been on top of any employer benefits she wouldve got, meaning she 
wouldve been able to use this for other  everyday  living  expenses.
Ref: DRN28013602BoS has told us the PPI wouldve  cost Mrs K 79p per £100 of her outstanding 
monthly balance. I havent seen anything to suggest  this wasnt  affordable to Mrs K. 
And as the PPI was paid monthly, Mrs K couldve cancelled it at any point. 
As well as checking the policy  was suitable for Mrs K, BoS also shouldve  given  her clear
information about the policy so that she could make  a proper choice about whether to
take it out. I dont  know what  steps BoS took to do this and its possible some things werent 
explained as clearly as they shouldve been.  But I dont think  clearer information wouldve 
changed Mrs Ks decision. I think shed still have  bought it. I say this for the same  reasons I 
think the policy was suitable for her.
So taking everything into account, including Mrs Ks comments, I dont think Mrs K lost out 
as a result  of anything  BoS mightve  done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2801360