complaint
Ms G complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a 
payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  through a total mortgage protection  policy 
(TMPP).
background
In 2001, at a meeting with the bank, Ms G took out a mortgage and PPI policy  to protect  her 
mortgage repayments in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment.  TMPP was a 
package of different types of insurance, including mortgage repayment cover,  which is a 
form of PPI. Ms G also took out critical illness and life cover.  Im just dealing  with the PPI 
part of her policy here.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms Gs complaint. Ms G didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint.  She said she was led to believe she had to take PPI 
to get the mortgage. She also said she didnt  know  she still had PPI cover when her 
mortgage ended. This was because it just showed  as insurance on her statements and 
she thought this was for house  insurance.  She said she ended  up paying for the policy for 
16 years  after her Halifax mortgage ended with no mortgage attached to it. 
Ms Gs complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Ms Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed when Ms G took out the insurance. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect her to recall everything, given  the time that has passed. This means 
that what  Ms G says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint.  I 
must look at all the available information  and take into account the wider circumstances to 
decide what most likely happened, based on whats available.
In order  to uphold Ms Gs complaint, Id have to find that its more  likely she wasnt given a 
fair choice  about  PPI or that it was added to her mortgage account  without  her consent. 
But I cant fairly say that, based on the information  Ive got, and what  we know about  Bank  
of Scotlands sales processes around that time.
Ive seen the paperwork Ms G completed to take PPI. She completed a standalone 
insurance document, separate from the mortgage paperwork.  Shes selected life and 
critical illness cover too. She also selected home  contents insurance, but not buildings 
insurance. I think  it was made clear on the paperwork Ms G signed that she didnt need to 
take PPI or the other insurances to get the mortgage. I think she probably wouldve  
understood from what she was signing that it wasnt  necessary to take PPI to get the 
mortgage, but opted to do so. She may have thought it would assist her mortgage  
application, but I havent seen anything to make me think that Halifax  told her that. I think  it 
Ref: DRN28322362likely that there was a conversation about PPI and the other insurances and she opted 
take out the insurances that best met her needs at the time.
So, I dont have enough to safely conclude that Ms G wasnt  given enough information 
about the optional nature of PPI to make  an informed choice that she wanted it. On balance, 
I think its just as likely  that Ms G was persuaded of the need to protect  her home  by taking 
out the PPI offered and decided to buy the policy.
The policy was recommended to Ms G. So, Bank  of Scotland had to make sure the policy 
was suitable for her, as well as giving her information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so that she could make  an informed choice about whether the policy was right 
for her and she wanted  to buy it.
It doesnt look like PPI was unsuitable for Ms G based on what  Ive seen of her 
circumstances when  the policy was sold. I say this because:
 she appeared eligible to take out the cover.
 she said she wouldve got some  sick pay through work if she wasnt  able to 
work. She said she didnt have  any savings to fall back  on if out of work. It 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim, which was longer 
than her work benefits wouldve  covered  her for. She couldve made repeated  
claims under the policy. TMPP  gave her long term protection  for her mortgage, 
protecting her home. I cant see that Ms Gs other resources  made  this policy  
unsuitable for her.
 there were some  things the policy didnt  cover. I cant see that Ms G was 
affected by these.  So, I dont  think having  more information about  things the 
policy didnt cover  wouldve affected  her decision to take out the policy.  She 
was employed on a fixed term contract at the time, but I cant see that she lost 
out in any way because of this. She said she was told her contract would be 
made permanent at the end of it (which it was).
 Ms G paid a monthly premium for TMPP. She didnt have to pay interest on the 
premium and couldve stopped  the policy at any time without losing out 
financially. I cant see that it was unaffordable.
Overall, I think the TMPP policy couldve provided her with useful protection  to safeguard 
her home.
Its possible there may have been  some  shortcomings in the way this policy  was sold. I 
cant know what she was told about the costs and benefits of the policy, for example. But, I 
think Ms G still wouldve decided  to buy the policy even  if she had been better advised and 
informed as the policy gave her useful protection in her circumstances, it was suitable and 
seemed affordable. I cant see that shes lost out because of anything  that Bank of 
Scotland may have done wrong.
I have taken into account what Ms Gs said about  the policy continuing long after her 
Halifax mortgage ended. This was a standalone policy so it wouldve covered  her for a 
different mortgage.  The cost of the policy appeared on her statements and Ms G couldve 
cancelled the policy at any time or contacted Halifax to find out what she was paying 
insurance for. 
Ref: DRN28322363my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2832236