K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the valuation Acromas Insurance Company Limited placed on her car, 
following a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
background
Mrs H made  a claim after her car was stolen. Acromas gave her car a market value of 
£7,000. So they offered Mrs H a total of £6,900 for it, which  was £7,000  less her £100 
excess. 
Mrs H says her car was worth  more than £7,000. She says she cant  buy the same  car in her 
area for this price. So she complained  to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the case.  He thought Acromas had offered a fair value for 
Mrs Hs car. He looked at the motor trade guides and said they valued the car at less than 
Acromas had offered.  So he didnt  recommend  Mrs Hs complaint be upheld. 
Mrs H remained  unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain  why. 
I appreciate Mrs H feels shes losing out as Acromas  offer is less than she thinks her car is 
worth. Her motor insurance  policy states  The most we will pay is the market value of your 
vehicle. When we say market value,  we mean  the cars worth  directly before the loss 
occurred.
Its not the Financial  Ombudsman Services role to decide the valuation of a vehicle. Our role 
is to look at whether  an insurer  has decided on their valuation  in a fair and reasonable way. 
When doing this, we pay particular attention to the various trade guides used for valuing 
cars. We think  these guides allow us to see the fair value of a car. This is because theyre 
based on extensive nation-wide research of actual sales  prices  - not advertised prices,  which  
are usually inflated for negotiation purposes. The value each guide gives is an average,  and 
the average takes into account cars selling at higher and lower prices.
I appreciate Acromas provided examples of similar cars for sale,  and that Mrs H felt many of 
these werent good comparisons  for example, because they werent  from the local area.  I 
also know Mrs H provided some  adverts herself,  for other  vehicles on sale which she felt 
were similar to her own. 
But Mrs Hs policy doesnt require Acromas  to use adverts or examples of cars for sale.  And 
we dont usually  find these as persuasive as the motor trade  guides,  because both retailers 
and private sellers tend to advertise  for more than they eventually  sell the car for. 
Although they provided examples of similar cars for sale, in Mrs Hs case  Acromas  have  
used two of the three main motor trader guides  when deciding  the value  of her vehicle. 
When deciding if we think their valuation is reasonable,  wed look at all three of the guides. 
Ref: DRN20990722Having done this, I can see the values  in the guides  range between £6,440 and £6,920.  So I 
cant say Acromas have acted unreasonably, as theyve valued  the car higher than the three 
guides. So I think their valuation of £7,000 is fair here  and its above what  we would have 
recommended ourselves.  
Mrs Hs policy includes a £100 excess,  and I can see no reason why this wouldnt apply to 
this claim.  So overall, I think  Acromas  offer of £6,900 is fair in the circumstances. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2099072