K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains about the service that shes  received  from Nationwide Building Society in 
connection with its refer-a-friend  scheme. 
background
Miss H opened an account  with Nationwide in November 2017  and claimed  £100  under its 
refer-a-friend scheme. She didnt receive the payment so complained to Nationwide.  It sent 
her its final response letter in January 2018  in which it said that only one direct debit had 
been transferred  to her new account so she didnt meet the criteria for the scheme. But it 
paid her £50 compensation.
Miss Hs mother  opened  an account with Nationwide  in November 2018 and Miss H claimed 
£100 under  the same  scheme. She hadnt received the payment so she complained  to 
Nationwide and to this service in January 2019. Nationwide said that it made  the £100 
payment in January 2019 and it paid her £60 compensation for the delay and for the 
customer service  that shed received. 
Her complaint to this service was about both payments. But the investigator said that he 
couldnt consider  her complaint about the payment claimed from November  2017  because 
Miss H had complained  to this service more than six months  after the date of Nationwides 
final response letter. But he said that he could consider her complaint  about the other 
payment.
He didnt recommend  that the complaint about that payment should be upheld. He said that 
Nationwide had accepted that there  were  delays in making the payment  but it was paid to 
her in January 2019 and it also paid her £60 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its poor service. He was satisfied  that Miss H wasnt  out of pocket 
as a result  of the delay in making the payment and he thought that £60 was a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation.
Miss H has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that Nationwide  lied to her, said that it was nothing  to do with it and didnt 
apologise. She says that £60 might be acceptable to cover  the delay  but what  about the 
customer service? She says that her mother got an apology  and more  compensation. And 
she says that Nationwide has delayed the incentive payment on two occasions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H didnt complain to this service  about the payment claimed  from November 2017  until 
more than six months after the date of Nationwides final response  letter  - and I agree with 
the investigators conclusion that this service cant consider  that part of her complaint. 
Miss H has accepted that she missed the deadline but has asked for the other part of her 
complaint to be investigated.
Miss Hs mother  opened  an account with Nationwide  in November 2018 and Miss H claimed 
£100 under  the refer-a-friend scheme. There was a delay in Miss H receiving the payment 
Ref: DRN22383932but it was made to her in January 2019. In its final response letter Nationwides 
representative said: 
I was genuinely sorry to hear about  the distress and frustration that has been  
caused to you; and:
I apologise  for how this made you feel, this wasnt our intention. 
And it paid her £60 compensation for the delay in the payment and the customer  service that 
shed received. 
Miss H says that her mother received an apology and more compensation. But this service 
considers each complaint on its individual merits and the compensation it was for Nationwide  
to decide on the compensation that it paid to Miss Hs mother  and Miss H wouldnt 
necessarily receive the same amount of compensation. Nationwide did apologise to Miss H, 
she did receive the £100 and she was paid an additional £60 compensation.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Nationwide  lied to Miss H. And 
I consider that the apology, payment of £100  under the scheme and £60 compensation is a 
fair and reasonable outcome in these circumstances.  And I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Nationwide to pay any further compensation to Miss H or to 
take any other action  in response to her complaint.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2238393