K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Ms T are unhappy  Covea Insurance plc settled a third party  claim made on Mr Bs 
car insurance on the basis of split liability. Theyre also unhappy with the service  theyve had 
from Covea in handling the claim.
background
Ms T (a named driver on Mr Bs policy)  was involved in an accident in December 2017 while  
driving Mr Bs car. Mr B notified Covea  of the accident and sent in photos taken of his and 
the third partys car after the accident. He didnt make a claim on his car insurance.
Mr B says he heard nothing more about the accident until he got a letter  from the third 
partys solicitors in February 2018, which he sent to Covea. In March  2018 Covea got an 
independent engineer to examine  the car and take a statement from Ms T. In November 
2018 Mr B was told by Covea the claim had been settled on a 50:50 split liability basis.  
In the meantime, Mr B had taken out a new car insurance policy  with another insurer.  He 
says his new insurer charged him a £30 administration fee (because he hadnt  disclosed the 
accident when  he first applied for the new insurance) and his premium was higher than it 
had been previously.
Unhappy with Coveas  liability decision  and the service he got during  the claims process,   
Mr B complained. 
Covea upheld Mr Bs complaint in part. Its paid him £100 for the distress  and inconvenience 
it caused him by delaying  in responding to his some  of his emails,  failing to respond at all to 
others, not keeping him up-to-date on the progress of the claim and not giving him a copy of 
its complaints procedure when he asked for it. But Covea didnt uphold  Mr Bs complaint 
about its liability decision.
Unhappy with this outcome,  Mr B and Ms T complained to us. The investigator  who looked 
at their complaint  didnt  uphold it. He thought the compensation Covea had paid Mr B was 
fair and its decision on liability was reasonable. He also thought it was Mr Bs responsibility 
to inform his new insurer of the accident.  Mr B disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman 
to decide his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr B and Ms Ts complaint. I know  this will 
disappoint them but I hope  the reasons Im about to give help them to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
I agree  with Mr B, our investigator and Covea that the level of service Mr B got during the 
claims process was poor. I say this having  seen Mr Bs extensive  correspondence with 
Covea over a number of months and also for the reasons Covea gave Mr B in its response 
to his complaint  (which  Ive already mentioned). So I think  it was fair and reasonable for 
Covea to compensate  Mr B £100 for the distress  and inconvenience this caused him.
Ref: DRN29287182I turn now to Coveas decision  to accept a 50:50 liability  split for the accident. I should  say at 
the outset, though, that my role in looking at this issue isnt  and cant be  to decide who 
was actually at fault for the accident.  Instead, I must look at whether, in reaching  its decision  
to accept split liability,  Covea acted fairly and reasonably.
My starting point is Mr Bs car insurance  policy. It says Covea is entitled to decide exactly  
how to carry out any legal  proceedings or settle any claim  and to:
 Take over and defend  or settle any claim  in the name of any person, company or firm
insured by the policy: and
 Take legal  action in [Mr Bs] name, or in the name of any person, company or firm insured  
by the policy,  to get back any payment  [it] make[s].
This means,  under the policy  terms, Covea can decide how it will settle the claim on Mr Bs 
car insurance, even  if he doesnt agree with it. And this is a standard  term youll find in most 
car insurance policies.
Ive gone on to look at the facts and evidence in this case to see if I think that, in making its 
decision, Covea  acted fairly and reasonably. I can see Ms T has given a statement setting 
out her version  of events. I havent  seen  anything giving the third partys version of events 
and, from what Covea  says, it hasnt seen anything either. I understand that, although the 
police were called,  they didnt  attend the accident. And I also understand there were no other  
witnesses to the accident and there  was no CCTV footage. 
Ive seen the report prepared by the third partys  engineer. Among other things, this 
describes the impact  of the accident  as moderate and says theres also pre-accident 
damage to the third partys car. It then sets out the detailed costs  of the repairs.
Ive also read the report Coveas  independent  experts prepared.  I understand  from this, and 
from what Ms T says in her statement, that the accident happened when she and the third 
party were  driving in opposite directions around  a bend in a road that didnt  have central 
white hazard lines setting out the lanes. Ms T says in her statement that the third party  car 
came round the bend at speed but she describes the impact on her car as light.  Coveas 
independent experts report recommends that, because there are no witnesses and no 
CCTV to assist this may be best settled on a split liability basis . But the report also raises 
concerns that the third party may be claiming for pre-existing damage to his car and 
exaggerating injury.
We asked Covea what action it had taken following this report  and how it affected  its 
decision on liability. It said it had passed  the file to its low impact  speed team on two 
occasions to see if it could dispute  the damage  to the third partys car. But, because Ms T 
had maintained the third partys car was travelling at speed, the file was referred back  as 
one the team was unable to pursue. 
Covea also says that, following the report, it continued to reject  liability to the third party until 
it received a court summons from the third partys representatives in August 2018. It says it 
was only at this point it took the commercial decision to make a without prejudice  offer to 
settle the claim on the basis of economics. We asked Covea what  it meant  by this. It says 
when a claim falls outside  what it calls the injury portal, it gains costs each time solicitors  
have to take action on the file. It says the file was reviewed when the summons  was 
received and it reached the view that the best possible outcome it could receive for Mr B 
Ref: DRN29287183would be a 50/50 split liability decision due to the lack of evidence it had and the 
circumstances of the incident . 
Although I understand this is hard for Mr B and Ms T, I think Coveas  decision  was in line 
with Mr Bs policy terms and took into account the available evidence.  Its unfortunate Covea 
didnt explain its reasoning to Mr B, as it has accepted in offering Mr B the compensation it 
has. But I think it was reasonable for it to take the commercial decision  to settle the 
complaint on the basis of economics. And thats  why I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint on this 
point.
As a result of this claim, Mr Bs future  insurance  premiums are likely to increase for a period 
of time. At the time he took out his new car insurance policy, he says he didnt know there 
was an outstanding claim  and, given  Coveas delays in corresponding with him, I can 
understand this. But he did know thered been an accident, because hed notified Covea of it 
at the time it happened. Mr B hasnt asked directly  for Covea to reimburse him for his 
increased car insurance premium or the administration  fee his new insurer charged  him for 
not disclosing  the accident initially. But, for the avoidance of doubt, I dont think in the 
circumstances Ive described it would be fair and reasonable to require Covea to reimburse 
him for these things.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr B and Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2020
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2928718