K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Link Financial Outsourcing  Limited (Link) are chasing  him for a debt 
despite him having paid everything that was due.
background
Mr P was financing a car through  an agreement with a company I will call F. The lease 
came to an end in September 2016 and Mr P returned his car and paid some  end of contract 
charges which  amounted  to £1,059.63. These  were  mostly in relation to excess mileage.
He heard nothing  more  until 22 March  2019 when he received a letter  from Link saying he 
still owed £305.99  on the finance agreement which they had bought  from F. Mr P 
complained to Link and they contacted  F who insisted the sum was outstanding. So, still 
dissatisfied, Mr P referred his complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to suggest the debt was due. He 
couldnt find any evidence  that Mr P had been  informed of the debt until 2019 when Link 
contacted him. He noted that various amounts were listed on the vehicle appraisal form that 
had been completed at the end of the lease period and that thered been some  hand written 
amendments. It was possible,  he thought, to reach  an outstanding balance  of £305.99 once 
these amendments had been considered. But Link were not able to provide  clarification  of 
what the additional charges represented and he therefore didnt  think it was fair to ask Mr P 
to pay a debt they could  not substantiate.
Link didnt agree with the adjudicator. They  said the debt had been handed to them by F and 
it was unreasonable to hold them accountable  for the failure  of F to clarify the charges. They 
therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Link so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Theres no dispute that Mr P paid £1,059.63  in September 2016. If that was only a partial 
settlement I would have  expected F to have pursued him for the balance. But neither Link 
nor F have been able to provide evidence that was the case.
I understand that Link are frustrated that the responsibility for telling Mr P what  he owed 
money for was Fs. They feel they are being  held accountable for something they have no 
Ref: DRN20888872control over. But neither does Mr P and its unfair to hold him accountable for a debt that has 
not been justified.
The argument here appears to be between F and Link who may well question  what  debt, if 
any, theyve actually acquired.
Mr P was not informed  of this debt for three  years. I think  its entirely reasonable to suggest  
he thought hed paid the debt off in its entirety in 2016. He wasnt told that wasnt  the case  
and I would have  expected significant  correspondence if the debt had not been finalised.  But 
that correspondence has not been  evidenced.  Whilst  it is possible to establish a balance  of 
£305.99 from the hand written amendments to the vehicle  appraisal form I dont think this is 
sufficient evidence to suggest these charges are due  theres no breakdown  or justification  
for them. So I dont  think it would be reasonable to ask Mr P to pay the debt Link are 
pursuing him for.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Link Financial Outsourcing  
Limited to waive  the debt theyve been  pursuing  payment for from Mr P.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2088887