K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C say that Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) mis-sold  them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr and Mrs C or Bank of Scotland sent me anything further to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions             
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons. 
what the business needs  to do
Bank of Scotland has said that its already paid back  some of the cost of the PPI to               
Mr and Mrs C because:  
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. 
Because Bank of Scotland didnt tell Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
If Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  at the time as Birmingham Midshires has already paid back  some 
of the cost of the PPI as outlined above, I dont award any further redress or compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept  
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN22923262copy  of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc (trading at the time as Birmingham Midshires)      
mis-sold them the PPI. The policy covered Mr C for accident and sickness 
 not unemployment
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the length of time thats passed  since this sale took place,  Bank of Scotland doesnt 
have copies of all the paperwork completed. This isnt unusual.  In situations like this, Ive to 
decide what I think is more likely  than not to have  happened - based on the available 
evidence.
I dont think that the borrowing and PPI were taken at the same  time. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Im currently  not intending to uphold this complaint because:
On balance, I think that its more likely than not that Bank of Scotland made it clear 
that Mr and Mrs C didnt  have  to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  
although I can understand why they might  not remember this.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage application from 1997. On this form,    
in section F theres  a question about PPI. The question asks Do you want  Mortgage 
Repayment Cover? There are Yes  and No options. A tick has been entered next to 
the No option.  
So Im satisfied that the PPI was presented as optional at that point - but that it was 
declined. The mortgage offer document  dated  21 January 1997 also doesnt make 
reference to PPI being added. It wouldnt be uncommon for details of PPI to appear 
on a mortgage  offer document.
Ive then considered  a document  called a Home Protector Insurance Application 
from 1998. This form has Mr Cs details entered and the option for accident and 
sickness only cover  has been selected.  But as this document is largely poor quality,  
parts are illegible and I cant  safely say based  on it if the form or the direct debit 
mandate form has been signed.
Ive also then considered a letter  dated  17 August 1998 addressed to Mr C. It refers 
to a successful PPI application having been  received,  the start date and the cost per 
month. So, it seems reasonable to assume  that if Mr C received this document he 
would have queried it if it was incorrect or he hadnt applied for PPI. 
Ref: DRN22923263But, in the interest  of fairness to Mr and Mrs C, Ive also thought  about  what  if they 
didnt receive this document notifying  them that a policy hadnt been set up.
Mr and Mrs C have complained that they werent aware that theyd taken PPI when 
theyve brought  their complaint to our Service. But Ive seen a Bank of Scotland 
systems screen shot.  It summarises a telephone call between Mr or Mrs C and Bank 
of Scotland enquiring about  claiming  on the PPI. 
The system note states; only covered for accident/sickness & for Mr only so 
unable to claim  will borrow from daughter. So I cant fairly say that 
Mr and Mrs C werent  aware that theyd  taken PPI. 
Its possible that Mr and Mrs C might  not recall everything from the sale clearly now 
that so much  time has passed.  
I think that its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C were  made  aware that PPI was 
optional  before they agreed to take it out.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on the nearest relevant policy terms and what Ive seen of 
Mr Cs circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For example Mr C wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs C.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because:  
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Bank of 
Scotland didnt  tell Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs C have said, including what  Mr C has said about 
being self-employed, so he thinks that the policy wasnt right for him. The level of cover 
taken out was accident and sickness, not unemployment. So these points dont change  my 
decision.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I currently dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint 
but I do intend to tell Bank of Scotland  plc to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and 
Ref: DRN22923264profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - if they havent  already done 
so.
If either  Mr and Mrs C or Bank of Scotland plc have anything further to add, they should do 
so by 28 February 2019. Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2292326