K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out with a Mastercard  
and a Visa credit card in 1997. Mr D says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.  
Mr D completed  a dual application form to apply  for a Mastercard  and Visa card at the same 
time. Mr D said, in summary, he wasnt aware  of PPI being  added to his accounts. He said 
he routinely refused to pay anything that incurred additional costs  and had no need for PPI 
because he didnt have  a mortgage  or any large debts  at the time.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  the reasons for my decision below.
Ive seen the application form completed by Mr D to apply for a Mastercard and a Visa 
credit card. The application form is signed  and the box is ticked  selecting PPI. There  is 
an equally  prominent box to decline  PPI. This has been left blank. I cant know  what was 
discussed with Mr D at the time the form was completed. He hasnt said he was told he 
had to have PPI.
Having seen Mr Ds application form,  I think it more likely that Mr D selected PPI 
because at the time, knowing  he didnt have to have it. So, I cant fairly or reasonably  
uphold his complaint on this ground.  I can understand why he may not remember that 
now after so much time.
Barclays says it doesnt know  whether  this was a postal or branch application. So, to be 
fair to Mr D its treated  this as a branch sale, as that means that it had the added 
responsibility of checking  whether PPI was suitable for him. Whether it was a branch 
sale or not, it also had to give him enough  clear information so he could make an 
informed choice for himself about  whether PPI was right for him and he wanted  to buy it.  
To be fair to Mr D, Ive also proceeded on the basis that Barclays  recommended  PPI to 
him. So, that means that Barclays had to consider  whether PPI was suitable for him, in 
his circumstances.
I cant see that the policy was unsuitable for Mr D. Ill explain why. 
He was eligible  to take out the policy. It looks like it was affordable. It was a 
monthly paid policy  and couldve been  cancelled at any time. 
I cant see that he was affected by any of the main limits to or exclusions on cover. 
As he couldve benefitted from everything  the policy offered, I think  it couldve 
provided him with useful  protection.
He said he wouldve got some sick pay through work if he was off sick. The policy 
wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ds sick pay and I cant  see that he had any other 
means of making his repayments, so I still think the policy wouldve provided him 
with a valuable  benefit. It wouldve also paid out if he was made redundant. It 
Ref: DRN26039482wouldve allowed him to use his work  benefits to meet his other living expenses at 
what might  be a difficult time for him financially if he wasnt working. 
Its possible that Barclays couldve  provided  Mr D with clearer information, so Ive thought 
about whether  he wouldve made a different decision and not bought  PPI if it had. I cant 
see that Mr D has lost out because of anything that Barclays couldve done better. I say 
this because the policy appeared suitable,  he appeared to want the cover  and I think he 
wouldve understood that hed have to pay something for it.
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D in respect of his 
Visa account. Thats  because:
Barclays got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell 
Mr D, that was unfair.
To put that right for his Visa account, Barclays has paid back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  
that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium for his Visa account. I 
understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2603948