K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that U K Insurance Limited  has poorly handled two claims he made  under 
his buildings and contents insurance policy.
background
This background isnt intended  to set out every  event in detail. Instead  Ive given a 
summarised timeline of events. Certain  aspects of Mr Ks complaint  have  now been resolved 
during the life of this complaint, so to keep things simple I have focused on the outstanding 
issues within my decision.
In late 2017 Mr K suffered a water  leak in his home. He contacted UKI who assessed  and 
accepted the claim for both his buildings  and contents. Our service previously considered  a 
complaint about  the events around this time under  a different reference  in November 2017. 
So I wont  be revisiting these events in detail or making further findings on these issues.
Mr K raised a number  of concerns  about  the works  throughout the life of the claim, including  
delays and quality  of repairs. He said UKIs contractor  (Company  A) had caused  a second 
leak in May 2018,  which was considered  as a separate claim, as part of their repairs.
UKI responded to Mr Ks concerns and in October  2018 it acknowledged there had been 
delays and the level of service at times  wasnt as it shouldve  been, so it awarded him £150. 
Around a month later in November 2018 UKI wrote  to Mr K again saying Company A had 
said they were unwilling  to attend  his property to complete any further repairs.
Mr K came to our service  and raised his concerns. Since then UKI said it was unable to 
source another contractor to replace Company A, but it said it would consider an estimate 
provided by Mr K to rectify any remaining works  which he did in January 2019. UKI asked  
for a breakdown of these works which was provided  by Mr Ks relative in February 2019.
In early 2019 Mr K told us his father had sadly passed away.  He said as the repairs  were  still 
outstanding and he had to hire furniture for the funeral. He also said hed had five builders  
attend his property to give him a quote for repairs, but four of them  were unwilling  to take 
over the work of another company. 
UKI then sent Company A to visit his property  again. During this visit Mr K raised concerns 
about the attitude of the agents that attended. UKI apologised  for the upset this had caused.  
In July 2019 UKI wrote to Mr K again. It apologised for sending a particular contractor to his 
home, acknowledging Mr K felt she was biased  based on a previous  complaint and how this 
made him feel.
 
UKI told our service  Mr Ks quote  was excessive  and it agreed that going forward Company 
A wouldnt be used  for further works. Following this some further back  and forth took place.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and upheld it. She said UKI had accepted the claim 
and therefore  would  need to either  repair the damage or settle for the costs of these works 
being completed. She said all parties had agreed another  contractor should  complete the 
works due to the relationship breakdown between Company A and Mr K. 
But the investigator said UKI didnt have any other contractors available  in this area. And 
despite requests  to UKI, she said shed been given nothing to suggest why Mr Ks quote was 
Ref: DRN21233572excessive or unreasonable. So to settle the claim fairly it needed to either pay Mr Ks quote  
or source  its own contractor to complete the works. 
The investigator also said the overall  works had taken a significant length of time since the 
damage occurred, so she was persuaded UKI had done something wrong. As a result of the 
impact of these delays and its mistakes, she recommended UKI award £500 to Mr K.
UKI responded to say Mr Ks quote included some  works it had now completed  so it asked 
for a revised quote. And it said Mr K was responsible for the breakdown in relationship with 
Company A, and the subsequent delays caused as a result.  Our investigator disagreed  and 
said despite the second claim being made some time ago, there was still no resolution.
UKI provided  its own cost for the works  at around £3,938.88 against Mr Ks previous quote  
of around £12,200  (plus  VAT).  In August 2019  our investigator asked UKI to provide detail of 
the difference so we could  understand and assess what would be a fair scope of the works. 
But UKI didnt reply and hasnt provided anything further since.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding  this complaint. Ill explain why.
the claim and scope of works
When dealing with a claim of this nature, Mr Ks policy says UKI is able to decide whether to:
manage and pay for repairing or rebuilding the damaged part using  our own suppliers
pay to repair or rebuild the damaged  part using  your suppliers, or
make  a cash payment
Below this it says We wont pay more  than the amount  it would have cost us to repair or 
rebuild the damaged part using our own suppliers. This isnt uncommon in policies of this 
nature. And UKI initially instructed its own supplier (Company A) to carry out the works.
As Ive outlined above, UKI has apologised to Mr K in writing  on a number of occasions for 
the behaviour  of Company As agents, and awarded  him £150 previously for this issue  
alongside delays.  UKI has since said this relationship  breakdown was due to Mr Ks 
behaviour. However  I dont think this is fair or accurate to say given its repeated 
acknowledgement and apology for these mistakes  to Mr K directly.  So in summary, Im 
satisfied this relationship has broken down, and in part at least this is due to Company A.
UKI has also said it has no other  agents  that are able to carry out the remaining  required 
works in Mr Ks area.  This means its left without  the option of repairing or rebuilding  any 
damaged parts using its own suppliers. So it needs  to provide Mr K with the costs to 
complete the relevant repairs using his own supplier.
Mr K has told us hed previously sought out five builders to provide quotes but only one did. 
Given the work involved taking over repairs from Company A, I see no reason  to doubt this. I 
say this as, in my experience of dealing with these types of complaints, builders will often not 
want to take over work thats been started by another  party  given they cant guarantee work 
Ref: DRN21233573that has already  been partially  completed. And in turn it has been known that some may 
inflate their prices as a result  a comment UKI has mentioned itself on other complaints.
UKI has since said its own costs of repair are £3,938.88. But in the absence of the 
breakdown of this cost as requested by the investigator,  Im not satisfied, based on the 
information I have  seen, that UKIs own costs will be reflective of the actual costs Mr K will 
be charged. I say this because UKI and large insurers will often receive significant 
reductions when  using their own suppliers. So, as UKI doesnt have a contractor  that can 
complete repairs, Id expect it to pay the costs Mr K will have to pay to carry out the 
necessary works.
Mr K has provided a quote for £12,200 (plus VAT) which UKI has since  said includes works 
it has already completed  such as flooring. Mr K has provided  photos of the flooring 
showing damage. Hes said this shows the work was never completed properly by UKI and 
that he should be able to instruct his own contractor to redo these works.
Our investigator has tried to engage  UKI on the scope of these works so our service would 
be able to make a fair finding on the relevant  damage,  taking into account what would be 
covered under the policy and related to the claim. But UKI hasnt replied or given detail on 
this topic so this leaves me with limited information  to rely on.
As a result, and in the absence of UKIs input, Im satisfied  a fair outcome to this case is for 
UKI to settle in full the works Mr K has outlined  in his quote  of January 2019.
 
delays and impact of this
ICOBS 8.1.1 outlines that UKI should  handle claims promptly and fairly.  In this case  as Ive 
outlined above,  UKI had previously acknowledged it has caused  delays even  if it now 
attributes these to Mr K. And taking  into account  the timeline of events, I agree with our 
investigator that this claim (particularly on the second leak) has taken a considerable length 
of time.
From what  Ive seen these delays were  avoidable  and were  related heavily to the breakdown  
of relationship between Mr K and Company A. By its own admission, UKI has described this 
as the primary reason for the delay.  And as Ive said above, Im satisfied  this was at least in 
part the responsibility of Company A. So even if I agreed with UKI that Mr K contributed  
towards this dispute,  Im not persuaded this eliminates its own responsibility to ensure the 
claim is handled promptly and fairly.
Mr K has described the impact of this claim on his life, and particularly around  the time of the 
loss of his father, I can see this put an additional  strain on him. I acknowledge that buildings 
claims will almost always cause a degree of distress to a homeowner. But Im satisfied UKIs 
actions have caused trouble and upset above and beyond what would normally  be expected.
And as a result Im satisfied a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint would be for 
UKI to award Mr K £500 in addition to any payments already made.
Ref: DRN21233574my final decision
For the above reasons Im upholding this complaint  and asking U K Insurance Limited  to do 
the following:
pay Mr K £12,200 (plus VAT upon receipt/invoice  of works completed) for the 
required works to settle this claim;  and
pay Mr K £500 in compensation for delays and inconvenience throughout the life of 
this claim (in addition to the £150  it has already paid).
U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date on which  we 
tell it Mr K accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020..
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2123357