K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2006. Mr K says PSA Finance UK Limited mis-sold the PPI.
background
Mr K took out hire purchase agreement  in 2006. The amount  of credit was £4,644  to be 
repaid over 36 months.  Later,  he was sold the PPI to protect his monthly repayments. The 
PPI could have  paid a monthly benefit  of £611.98  for remaining term of the agreement if    
Mr K could not work due to an accident  or ill-health.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr K was sold the PPI during a telephone  call that took place after the borrowing was 
approved. So I think Mr K would have  known he didnt  have  to take the PPI to get the hire 
purchase. The PPI was paid by a separate direct  debit to the loan repayments. And Mr K 
continued to pay the PPI premiums until March 2009  when the policy  was cancelled early.  If 
Mr K didnt want the PPI or only took it to have the borrowing approved  Id expect him to 
have questioned it at an early stage, but Ive not seen any evidence  that he did so. Taking all 
this into account  I think  PSA made  it clear  that Mr K didnt  have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this.
I dont think PSA recommended the PPI to Mr K so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr K got the information he needed to decide  if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information PSA gave Mr K about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But thats not enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not 
Mr K would have changed  his mind  about  buying  the policy if hed been given better or 
clearer information. I cant say he would have done. 
Mr K chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he was wanted  this type of cover.
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example he had no existing  
medical conditions  that wouldnt have been covered- so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Which means PSA doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But PSA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because: 
Ref: DRN20691912PSA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because  PSA didnt tell Mr K, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, PSA has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr K has said - including what he said about his employers 
sick pay scheme. Mr K has said hed receive  full sick pay if he became too unwell to work. 
But this particular PPI policy  could have paid a monthly benefit  for remaining term of the 
loan- potentially  much longer than Mr Ks sick pay would  last. So I still think  he could  have 
found it useful,  particularly if he couldnt work for a prolonged  period. So these points dont 
change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so PSA Finance UK Limited  does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But PSA Finance UK Limited does have to pay back to Mr K any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2069191