K821x#15comlaint
Mr N has complained about the advice Chase de Vere Consulting Limited gave him in 2001 
to take out a with-profits annuity (WPA).
background
The background to this complaint was set out on 2 November  2018 when I issued my 
provisional decision and this is attached and forms part of my decision.
Following my provisional decision, Mr N responded to say that he disagreed  with the 
provisional decision. Ive summarised  the main  points  in Mr Ns response:
Mr N disagrees  that a level income annuity  should be used as a comparison.
Mr Ns wife is younger than him. And an annuity paying from 2001 with a 50% spouses 
pension eroded  by inflation  wasnt suitable. That is why he was looking to improve  on the 
3% escalating  option he got with his protected rights pension. With the 3% escalating  
option as the fall-back option.
Mr N sees  no merit in a conventional annuity or the GPA against the 3% escalating  
annuity. By his calculations whilst  the payments with the 3% escalating annuity start 
lower after approximately  10 years  it catches up with a level annuity/GPA  and is now 
paying much more by way of income than the level alternative.
Chase De Vere wouldve known  in 2001  that 0% ABR WPA would be the only one not to 
go into negative growth in the future  but did not recommend it or bring this to Mr Ns 
attention.
Compensation based on a level or GPA  annuity  will only make him and his wife poorer 
and is not acceptable.
Mr N says he has devoted a lot of time pointing out the problems and lack of fairness in 
how the WPA and ABR system works.  Hes not happy that Ive said that this cannot be 
considered against  Chase  De Vere. And that weve said this was previously covered in a 
past case against the pension provider. He feels he is stuck in a catch 22 situation.
Mr N says that hes told us the whole way through  the complaint that he couldnt switch 
to a GPA and because Chase De Vere volunteered this false  information, which was 
accepted without verification, it has swayed our view of the complaint.
Mr N has said he doesnt prefer the flexibility of the 4% ABR WPA spousal benefits.  He 
would prefer the spouses benefits  of a 3% fixed  rate annuity where the spouses 
benefits are an unchanging 50% and escalate  at 3%.
After the provisional  decision, we wrote to both parties to confirm our understanding that the 
option to switch to a GPA wasnt available. After consideration of the options  available, and 
what Mr N had told us, I told both parties it was my intention  to only redress for past loss. I 
explained that this was because Mr N had said he didnt want  to lose the spouses  benefit 
available with his WPA for those  he would get with a level annuity. And Mr N had told us in 
no uncertain terms that he didnt want a level annuity. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN25160402Firstly Id like to clarify the discussion around  the level annuity and the GPA. Mr N feels  that 
because Chase De Vere has put forward the GPA as a comparative annuity, its led the 
investigators consideration of the case and also my view of the complaint. 
I can assure Mr N that this isnt the case, whether Chase De Vere  had put this forward  or not 
wouldnt have changed my view. Ive explained in the provisional decision as to why I felt a 
level annuity was the most suitable  option.  This had nothing to do with the existence of the 
GPA, or anything Chase  De Vere had said.
But with our position being that a level annuity  shouldve been advised  originally, the ability 
to switch into a level annuity (the GPA) with his current provider in the future couldnt be 
ignored when  redressing the situation. 
Mr N says that hes told us the whole way through the complaint that he couldnt switch to a 
GPA and because  Chase De Vere volunteered this false  information,  which  was accepted 
without verification, it has swayed our view of the complaint. Again I can assure  Mr N that 
this isnt the case. There had been inconsistent information given  by the pension provider 
around this option,  which  has led to the need for clarification. 
And theres  been  no error in comparison  with the GPA, the comparison I put forward  in the 
provisional decision is a comparison  with a level annuity, not the GPA. The GPA came into 
the future  loss calculations as it was a way of putting  Mr N into a level annuity  position going 
forward.
In regards to my comment about preferring  the spouses benefits  of the WPA. Mr Ns 
responded to say that this isnt the case and he prefers  a 3% escalating spouses  pension. 
But hed previously  told us that he does prefer the WPAs  spouses pension when compared 
to the level annuity equivalent.  And thats what I was referring to. I know that Mr N prefers 
other options outside of these two annuities.
In terms of future loss, Mr N has made it clear that he does not want a level annuity. And 
currently it looks like his 4% WPA ABR is outperforming  a level annuity in terms of income.  
So with these two points in mind, whilst its not possible to say what the future  will look like in 
terms of comparison  I dont think it would be fair or practical to attempt to put Mr N into a 
level annuity position going  forward.
Mr N has made it very clear why he wishes  for the comparison  to be carried  out against 
annuity options other than a level annuity.  But having considered the points Mr N has raised 
Ive not changed my view of this case.  I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr N but 
Ill explain  my reasoning in more  detail.
Ive read and thought about all that Mr N has had to say. However, as I said in my 
provisional decision the benefit  of hindsight cannot  be used to look at what the best annuity 
options are for him now. And by just looking at his position now hes not considering  the 
whole picture. 
Mr Ns main contention when looking at the performance of his 4% ABR WPA is that against 
either the 0% ABR or a 3% escalating annuity  options, now and going  forward,  these 
annuities have drawn level in terms of annual  income and/or exceed  his 4% ABR and the 
gap will continue to get bigger. I do understand  that due to the nature  of the product he was 
advised to take out, you dont need the benefit of hindsight  to see that this was a possibility 
at some point in the future.
Ref: DRN25160403 
But I think this is a very narrow and skewed view of the suitability  of the advice  given. 
Because it isnt fair to just look at whats happening now and in the future, 18 years  after the 
annuity was setup. And its should  be noted  that over the lifespan of the annuity  so far, Mr N 
has received a not unsubstantial amount more from his 4% ABR WPA than he wouldve 
done from the 0% ABR or 3% escalation option(s).
I know Mr N doesnt agree with my view that he is using the benefit of hindsight.  But the 
benefit of hindsight is inherent  in the fact Mr N is now looking at different annuities  going 
forward. I say this because when Mr N took out his annuity in 2001, he took it out on an 
enhanced basis  due to his health  issues. Mr Ns health issues appear  to have been fairly 
serious and they were  considered by the underwriters at the time,  enough  to qualify for an 
enhanced annuity. Enhanced annuities or impaired life annuities  as they are sometimes 
called, are essentially annuities paid to those who the underwriter believes have a medical 
condition that will reduce their life expectancy.
By advising a 4% ABR WPA,  Mr N received a significantly higher income at outset  than the 
0% ABR and the 3% escalating annuity  wouldve given him. And in reality it was some  
10 years  or more before either annuity  started to match the annual income. If Mr N had 
passed away within the first 10 years  of payment for example, in terms of the spouses 
pension and income received before death,  Mr N and his wife wouldve been much better off 
when compared  to the other options Mr N has put forward.
Mr N is insistent that an inflation proof annuity was required but as Ive said that wouldve 
meant a much lower  starting income especially with a 50% spouses pension attached with 
3% escalation. And with Mr Ns wife being younger  than him, the cost of providing an 
escalating spouses  pension would likely have been  too expensive. I dont think the 
calculations Mr Ns provided  for the 3% escalating annuity recognises the additional expense 
of an escalating spouses pension. But in any event, I dont think this option wouldve been  
desirable at the time.
I dont think Mr N wouldve wanted  to have the significantly reduced  starting  income that he 
wouldve had to take with a 0% ABR or the 3% escalating annuity. And I think a case could 
be made for saying these  options were unsuitable  for Mr Ns circumstances at the time.
The reason  Ive upheld this complaint, is that ultimately I dont think Mr N had the capacity to 
take the risks inherent with the 4% ABR WPA. In reality, I dont think  the risk has as yet 
materialised and Mr Ns 4% WPA ABR has mostly increased each year, so its performed 
comparatively well to date. But as Ive said before  I cant use the benefit of hindsight here 
either. 
Mr N and Mrs N were reliant on this income, so I dont think  having a substantially  lower 
starting income was something Mr N could reasonably risk. But by the same token, with the 
4% ABR, Mr N ran the risk of his income  eroding quite quickly. And so this is the reason  that 
I think the most suitable option for Mr N wouldve  been a level annuity. As both of these risks 
are negated  by this and it was the safest  option available  to him.
If I was to consider  a loss calculation against the options Mr N has put forward,  I think  its 
quite possible that there  could  be no loss in any event due to the gains Mr N has made so 
far through  the 4% ABR. And having looked  at Mr Ns most recent statement of 
performance, it could  well be that he hasnt suffered a loss when compared to a level annuity  
either. It wouldnt  be fair, nor reasonable to move Mr N into a position where now his annual 
Ref: DRN25160404income is in excess of his 4% WPA ABR  without recognising that hes been much  better  
off so far with this annuity. And I see no fair grounds to do so either, considering his 
circumstances at the time.
I know that Mr N strongly disagrees with my view. But as Ive explained  I dont think Mr N is 
considering the advice  based on his circumstances at the time.  To look at whats  happening 
now in isolation isnt giving a full picture.
With regards to the WPA and how the ABR works, Chase  De Vere  is not the product 
provider, I can only consider the suitability of the advice  it gave. Mr N says hes been caught  
in a catch 22 situation as we said we couldnt consider his arguments about the WPA and 
the ABR calculations against the provider. Ive looked at the correspondence in his previous 
case against the provider and I can see that we did give an answer about our view on the 
WPA and its performance. 
Ultimately, Ive not seen  anything that changes my view of this complaint. I know  this will be 
disappointing for Mr N, especially given the amount of time and effort hes gone  to in putting  
his point of view across  but unfortunately I dont agree with him for the reasons explained.
That said,  he is still free to accept my findings  which are, that I uphold  Mr Ns complaint as I 
think that he shouldve  been advised  to take out a level annuity  instead of the 4% ABR WPA. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I uphold Mr Ns complaint and if Mr N accepts this 
Chase De Vere should put things  right as detailed below.
Chase De Vere if Mr N chooses  to accept this decision  should:
Determine the level annuity available (reasonable attempts should be made  to find and 
select the most competitive provider for this product at the time) that could have been  
provided in 2001  on the same basis as the WPA  enhanced and with 50% spouses 
pension.
Obtain the actual past payments  from the WPA
Compare income  received to date from 1 against  2
Roll up any loss from the dates  the loss started to occur with interest at 8% per 
annum simple to date of calculation and pay this to Mr N in a lump sum subject any 
tax deduction  Mr N would  pay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  8 April 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN25160405provisional decision
complaint
Mr N has complained that Chase  de Vere Consulting  Limited mis-sold him a with-profits annuity 
(WPA). Mr N says that the adviser didnt fairly  explain  how the WPA  worked and the risk involved with 
it.
background
In 2001 Mr N took advice regarding his pension  from a business that has since been taken over by 
Chase de Vere  from this point on Ill just refer to Chase de Vere. The advice was to convert his 
personal pension fund into a WPA with a pension  provider.
Mr Ns explained that at the time of advice  he was looking for an annuity that would  outperform the 
3% annual  increases that he received  from his protected rights pension. He was advised by Chase  de 
Vere to take out the WPA with an anticipated  bonus rate (ABR) of 4%. Mr N says he was told that 
given the bonus rate was currently 8% there was quite  a big safety  net.
In 2013 Mr N complained  to his pension  provider  as he was unhappy with the performance of his 
WPA. 
In 2016 Mr N complained  to Chase  de Vere about the advice he was given and the lack of information 
provided at the time. Chase de Vere didnt uphold the complaint and said that Mr N wouldve  been 
fully aware of the risk involved.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and upheld it on the basis that the WPA carried too much risk 
for Mr Ns circumstances at the time and wasnt a suitable  recommendation.
Initially the investigators recommended  redress was for a loss comparison against a conventional 
level annuity  and an award for £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Chase de Vere carried out a loss calculation  and the loss was small, so the investigator said this had 
changed his view that undue  distress & inconvenience  had been caused as it was based on belief 
that Mr N had been worse off.
Mr N has repeated that his objectives at the time was to outperform 3% escalation. Chase de Vere 
say based on the figures it has been provided  with by (redacted) and industry annuity rates from the 
time, the WPA has performed considerably  better than an annuity with 3% escalation  wouldve done 
to date.
Mr N responded  to say he disagreed and wanted to do his own research into what  he couldve 
received at the time.
Mr N has provided a number of comparisons  that he has assembled with various ABRs a 
conventional level annuity  and another providers  3% escalating annuity.  
Mr Ns latest  correspondence has made clear that his main issues of complaint are the performance 
of his WPA, the literature and explanations that he feels are misleading about how the WPA works  
and the validity of the 4% WPA  as a product itself.
Mr Ns also said that he has provided accurate details  of alternatives all which provide better  growth.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN25160406Following Mr Ns latest correspondence I think it will be useful to set out what I can look at, as part of 
this complaint. This complaint is about the advice  given to Mr N to take out a WPA  in 2001. That is all 
I can consider as part of this complaint.
Mr N has raised issues to do with the performance of the WPA, the literature provided, how it works  
and the overall validity of it as a product. I cant consider this for a number of reasons, first and 
foremost because this would need to be considered against the pension provider and not Chase de 
Vere. But in any event, Mr N has already had a complaint against the provider where these points 
were considered by us in 2013.
Back to what I can consider,  the investigator has upheld  the complaint  and it appears that Chase de 
Vere accept this. Whats  still in dispute is how best to put things right.
There isnt much documentation from the time of advice and we dont have a copy  of the 
recommendation or the fact-find, so I cant be sure what was said.  So Ive relied on the evidence we 
do have and the questionnaire  that Mr N has completed now about his circumstances at the time. 
I know that Mr N has spent  a lot of time and effort  researching what his options wouldve been at the 
time and how they wouldve  performed compared to his WPA with the 4% ABR. I appreciate the effort 
he has gone  to.
I have to make it clear that I cant look at this complaint with the benefit of hindsight,  I have to 
consider what  should have happened at the time, without the benefit  of hindsight that we have now.
From the information provided and our conversations with Mr N, Ive listed what  I believe his 
circumstances were  at the time:
Mr N was retired due to ill health  aged 64 and was relying upon his tax free cash to help reduce  
his mortgage. And the annuity for an income  in retirement
He also had a protected rights policy that escalated at 3% - Mr N wanted to improve on this 
performance with his non-protected  rights
He qualified for an enhanced annuity  which  is what he received with the WPA
Mr N was concerned about his health situation  and wanted to make sure he provided  for his wife 
in the event  of his death
I understand that Mr N is unhappy with the performance of the WPA  and how the 4% ABR works.  And 
he expected it to grow at least 4% a year. But investment  performance cannot be guaranteed  and I 
dont think the adviser guaranteed this, looking at the information  we do have. All I can consider is 
what happened at the time with reference to the options available and not against projected growth  
rates that couldnt be and werent guaranteed. 
Mr N has told us that he didnt want a conventional  level annuity at the time.  And he doesnt want to 
give up the death benefit options that his WPA can provide Mrs N. 
So it seems  that what Mr N believes he shouldve  been  advised  to take a WPA  at a lower bonus rate 
 based on the fact that its growth in the future will outperform his WPA and leave a better spouses 
pension for Mrs N if he pre-deceases her. 
However as I said above, we cant use the benefit of hindsight. Mr N has already received 17 years of 
pension payments  and comparatively up to now his WPA at 4% seems to have performed as well as 
or outperformed the other options available at the time. This is based on what  Chase de Vere has told 
us and Mr Ns figures. However, I do take Mr Ns point that the figures  provided by Chase de Vere  
hadnt taken into account future loss  which is something that has to be considered.
At the time of advice the adviser  wouldnt have known what the performance of the various  pensions 
would be and obviously wouldnt have  known  what Mr Ns circumstances  would be now. I know that it 
Ref: DRN25160407was always in Mr Ns mind to make sure that he provided for his wife if he was to pre-decease her 
and he had worries about his health  at the time. Mr N is now worried that his income  will decrease in 
future years  potentially leaving Mrs N with a smaller pension in the event of his death.  But had Mr N 
pre-deceased Mrs N in the early years of his WPA annuity  then the higher income that the WPA at 
4% provided  would have been beneficial for the spouses  pension. And outperformed a level annuity 
or lower ABR WPA. So just looking  at the position Mr N is in now, doesnt  give a fair and full picture of 
the advice Mr N received at the time.
Ultimately, its my view that Mr Ns circumstances were such that he ought not to have been  exposed 
to the risk that comes  with a WPA at 4%. I dont  have the benefit of seeing  the advisers reasoning nor 
what Mr N and the adviser discussed at the time. But Mr N says he told the adviser  he wanted to 
outperform the 3% escalation he had on his protected rights. 
To do that Mr N had to be either prepared  to take a lower starting income with an escalating pension, 
giving the potential for a smaller spouses pension  if he died early  or he had to be prepared to 
accept the risk his annuity  could go down as well as up. So whilst I can see there seems to be a 
method to the advisers thinking, I dont think Mr N had capacity to accept  this level of risk  even  if he 
was saying  he wished to so.
I know that Mr N says he wanted an inflation proof annuity or an escalating annuity but the advice  was 
given at a time when  Mr N was in ill health and to a level where he qualified for an enhanced annuity. 
And at the time Mr Ns told us he needed  cash and was fairly reliant on his pension income   so I 
dont think the much reduced annuity he wouldve got with escalation wouldve  been suitable  for him 
at the time.  And even now 17 years later, according  to Mr Ns calculations a 3% escalating annuity  
still hasnt paid out as much as his WPA or what a conventional annuity wouldve done.
The reason Im minded to uphold this complaint is purely down  to risk level with the WPA which  
potentially couldve left Mr N and/or Mrs N with a significant  loss to their benefits that they rely upon.  
In reality this hasnt been realised but I recognised the potential is still there for this to happen  in the 
future. And this is the crux of the matter as I see it.
So by the same token that I cant use hindsight to select the best annuity now for Mr N  whilst up to 
now the WPA  has performed  comparatively well, at the time there was and still is the potential for 
loss, above and beyond what Mr N has capacity for.
It appears that Mr N has the option  to switch  on his benefit date to the providers guaranteed pension 
annuity that would give him a guaranteed level annuity and a 50% spouses  pension.  But Mr N has 
told us he doesnt want to do this, as he wants  to keep the spouses  benefit  options available with the 
WPA.
But a level conventional annuity with a 50% spouses pension appears to be the most suitable  product 
for Mr Ns circumstances at the time. It combats the risk of a smaller spouses pension on early death 
that a lower ABR WPA or an escalating  pension would have. And also takes away the risk of the 
pension decreasing in later life and again  providing  a much smaller  spouses  pension.
So as it stands my intended redress will be a loss calculation comparing Mr Ns WPA against what  he 
could have got with a level annuity on the same basis. I know that Mr N wont be happy with this but 
as Ive explained  I cant use hindsight to select the best product for Mr N now.  And I believe this 
method puts right the only issue I have with the advice  that Mr N doesnt have the capacity for loss 
that comes with the WPA with a 4% ABR.
So to put things right Chase de Vere  should:
For past loss/gain
Ref: DRN251604081.Determine the level annuity available (reasonable  attempts should  be made  to find and select  
the most competitive provider  for this product at the time) that could  have been  provided in 
2001 on the same  basis as the WPA  enhanced and with 50% spouses  pension.
2.Obtain  the actual  past payments from the WPA 
3.Compare income received to date from 1 against  2
4.Roll up any loss from the dates the loss started to occur  with interest at 8% per annum simple 
to date of calculation.
For future loss 
1.Chase de Vere should first confirm with the provider if Mr N has the option to switch to its 
GPA  and find out how much it will now pay Mr N.
2.It should then compare this against the level annuity Mr N wouldve  got at outset on the same 
basis.
3.Determine the difference between step 1 and step 2 and how much this value  would cost to 
provide as an annuity for Mr N on the prescribed basis. Less  any gain if past loss/gain shows 
a gain
4.Pay this difference to Mr N as a lump  sum subject  to a tax deduction at basic rate
Mr N will then have the option to take out the GPA  on his benefit date, putting  him in as close a 
position as possible  if hed been given the advice to take out a level annuity at outset.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  Mr Ns complaint and propose that Chase de Vere  Consulting Limited put things 
right using the method outlined above.
Ref: DRN2516040