K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr T says Bradford  & Bingley Plc mis-sold him the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr T says that the MPPI was added  to his mortgage without him asking for it, but I think 
Bradford & Bingley  made it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out the MPPI and that he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this as it was so 
long ago. I say this because Bradford and Bingley has supplied  a copy of Mr Ts 
mortgage application and I can see on this that the policy is presented  as optional, and 
has been selected. Mr T has signed this application,  agreeing to the information on it. 
Bradford & Bingley  didnt recommend  the MPPI to Mr T so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr T got the information he needed to decide  if 
it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr T about the MPPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But he chose to take out the MPPI - so it looks  like he wanted  
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI  cover - so it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the MPPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the MPPI  would have  put him off 
taking out the cover.  
This means Bradford & Bingley doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the MPPI  to 
Mr T.
But Bradford  & Bingley will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr T because:  
Bradford & Bingley  got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the MPPI  premium) - so it should  have told Mr T about that. Because Bradford & Bingley 
didnt tell Mr T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think  that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said  but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN26896532Bradford & Bingley  has to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the MPPI premium. Bradford & Bingley should also pay back  to Mr T any 
extra interest he paid because of that.
Bradford & Bingley  should pay back to Mr T the extra he paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. 
Bradford & Bingley  should also pay Mr T 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the MPPI to Mr T.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2689653