K820x#14complaint
Mrs As complaint was submitted by her representative. It says: 
Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Limited (PS) gave her unsuitable investment 
advice in 2004.
She invested in a Capital Investment Bond (CIB) recommended by PS at the time.
The CIB investment  was rushed;  it mismatched her low risk, inexperienced  investor  
and nearing retirement profile; it consumed  most  of her inheritance; and the 
recommendation did not account  for her short term financial  needs and debts. 
background
Mrs A invested around £33,000 in the CIB; between 2005 and 2007 she made  six partial 
withdrawals which totalled around £28,000;  she surrendered the CIB in 2008 with a final 
withdrawal of around £12,000; and, overall, the CIB gave  her a gain of around £6,000.  
One of our investigators  looked into the merits of the complaint. In the main,  she said:
She is not persuaded that the CIB was unsuitable for Mrs A.
Mrs A was advised on 24 September 2004, the suitability letter  was issued on 27 
September, the investment began on 28 September and she had 30 days from then 
to cancel the CIB without penalty.  She had time to make an informed decision.
Mrs A was assessed as having a medium risk profile and a growth  objective.  Her 
investment was divided between 3 funds  within the CIB. One fund had a low risk 
profile and the other two had medium risk profiles.  The CIB matched her risk profile 
and it matched her objective for a higher potential  growth than she had from her 
savings account  at the time.
Neither the fact find nor suitability documents record that Mrs A received money from 
an inheritance. After the investment  she had a reserve of £7,000. Evidence shows  
that the parties discussed her reserve needs  at the time and agreed that £7,000  was 
an acceptable amount.  She also had disposable  monthly income.
Mrs A made six withdrawals from the CIB within four years, this seems  high for the 
period but it does  not mean the recommendation was unsuitable. There  is nothing in 
the fact find or suitability  documents  which suggests that her credit debts and 
mortgage were concerns  for her at the time of the recommendation.
Mrs As representative disagreed with this outcome. It said:
PS had a duty to at least discuss Mrs As debts and document  the discussion.
Too much  of her money  was invested into a single product (the CIB).
Her withdrawals from the CIB show that she did not understand the way it worked 
and that she was using it as a deposit  account.
It is not Mrs As fault that PS did not document the source  of her savings as being  an 
inheritance.
The matter  was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
Ref: DRN23098182conclusion as the investigator for reasons broadly similar to those she gave. Overall and on 
balance, I do not consider  that recommendation of the CIB was unsuitable for Mrs A.
Evidence about the investment in 2004 includes the fact finding evidence  document and 
record of PS recommendation of the CIB. As the investigator noted, a suitability document  
was issued to Mrs A at the time. This document covers some of the fact finding  elements 
and presents the basis for PS recommendation.  There does not appear to be evidence of 
Mrs A disputing information within the document,  at the time, in relation to her profile.  On 
balance, I consider the information within it to be reliable and, in summary, it states that:
Mrs A required a reserve  of £7,000 and sought to invest  £33,000 for the long term (a 
minimum of five years).
She sought accumulated growth  of the investment,  which she could use in the future 
to provide a more  tax efficient income.
She had a medium risk profile.
It is not clear  that Mrs A saw the fact find document in 2004  and I do not assume  that she 
did. However, on balance,  I also consider its contents to be reliable as they are broadly 
consistent with the suitability  document   which Mrs A received.  A summary of relevant 
additional information from the fact find document is as follows:
She was in part-time  employment (with around  £200 monthly  disposable income), 
married without dependents and she held a joint repayment mortgage on her home 
with three years  remaining its term.
She was close to retirement  age but had no provisions  for retirement,  however  an 
Advisers  Notes  section in the document says she wanted an investment with a 
medium risk element and that her intention was to draw income  from it when she 
reached retirement age four years  thereafter.
She considered  that her mortgage  was adequately protected  and did not wish to 
repay it early. No information  about credit debts  is recorded.
It is not clear  why no information was recorded, in 2004, about  the credit  debts presently 
referred to in Mrs As complaint. I agree that PS should have discussed her debt liabilities as 
part of its suitability assessment, but I am not persuaded that there is enough evidence to 
say it did not do this. 
Whilst no information about credit debts is in the fact find document,  there  is information  
about Mrs As mortgage liability. On balance, it is arguably implausible that PS would have 
addressed the latter  in its fact finding exercise  without doing  the same  for, or at least 
enquiring about,  the former.  I do not have enough  evidence to conclude  how such  
discussion or enquiry  took place. Overall and given the inference that can be drawn  from PS 
treatment of Mrs As mortgage  liability, I do not consider that it was dismissive  of her 
liabilities as her representative says it was.
I also do not consider  that PS was dismissive  of Mrs As short  term financial needs.  
Evidence suggests that she requested  or agreed  to retention of the £7,000  reserve. I 
appreciate this was arguably a small proportion of her capital (of around £40,000) and that 
the majority of the capital was invested  in the CIB. However, given  her plan at the time to 
draw income in retirement after four years and the absence  of alternative retirement 
provisions for her, the idea of investing that majority (around £33,000) for growth  intended to 
support such future income withdrawals is not particularly  unreasonable.  
Ref: DRN23098183As the investigator  said  and as I also note  she had time to consider and cancel the CIB 
without penalty.
Mrs A made withdrawals earlier than planned.  She did so within the first three years of the 
CIB. However, they appear to have been  unplanned  and given  the disposable monthly 
income she had in 2004 I do not consider that a need for such withdrawals could reasonably 
have been foreseen in 2004.
Evidence from the fact find and suitability documents supports the conclusion that Mrs A had 
a medium risk profile for the investment. Her representative says she was an inexperienced 
investor. However, I do not consider it implausible or unreasonable  for her to have  had a 
medium risk profile for the investment in order to achieve the type of growth objective she 
had  that is, long term growth but with potential for enough growth after four years to 
support income  withdrawals. Evidence about the CIB also supports the conclusion  that, on 
balance, it matched Mrs As risk profile. Her representative highlights the fact that it was a 
single product, however as the investigator  said the CIB had sub funds, with low and 
medium profiles, and I consider that they provided diversification for her within  the bond.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mrs As complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject  my decision 
before 31 August 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2309818