K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Automobile Association Insurance  Services  Limited  (AAIS)  charged 
him an administration fee when  he called  to change the address on his car insurance policy.  
background
Mr C took out a car insurance policy through AAIS  a broker. He moved house midway 
through the policy term and he called AAIS to update his policy.  AAIS told him that his new 
address would increase the premium  by £11.90 and it would charge an administration  fee of 
£25. Mr C thought  this was unfair, for what  was only around a three  minute phone  call. He 
said he was forced to move house as his landlord had sold it. And the only other option he 
had was to cancel the policy, which was more expensive to do.
AAIS responded to say that the premium was set by the insurance company and it said it 
was a broker. It said the premium varies  depending on several factors that are believed  to 
have an impact on the expected cost of future claims. And it said the additional premium he 
was charged was correct.
Mr C was unhappy that AAIS took eight  weeks to respond to his complaint, for what he 
thinks was a simple issue. And he says the response makes no reference  to the 
administration charge.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said AAIS  only actually charged an 
administration fee of £12.50 and he was charged an additional  premium  of £24.40. He said 
the terms of the policy entitled AAIS to charge up to £25, so he thought AAIS  had acted 
fairly. And he thought it was a fair reflection of the work it did to update the address.
The adjudicator also didnt think AAIS had handled  the complaint unfairly. He said AAIS  had 
up to eight weeks to investigate it. And he did think it had acted unreasonably with the length  
of time it took to respond.
Mr C didnt accept the adjudicators opinion.  He remained of the belief that £12.50 was 
excessive for updating a database. He says he was told on the telephone  that the fee was 
£25 on two occasions, so he queried why it was now saying it was just £12.50. And he thinks  
AAIS may have manipulated the fee for the purposes of this complaint.
Mr C also says that AAIS wrote to him immediately after he changed  his address saying that 
there wasnt a price increase. He said AAIS is responsible for ensuring its correspondence  is 
correct and he didnt  think its acceptable to mislead customers  into believing one price  when 
another is true. 
The adjudicator agreed that the follow up letter was misleading. But he said that Mr A was 
already aware  the premium had increased by the time he received this. So he didnt think it 
had impacted him. And the adjudicator remained of the opinion  that the amount charged  was 
fair and reasonable.
Mr A remained of the belief that AAIS had manipulated the figures  it charged.  And he wanted 
evidence that it had charged  other  customers the same.
Ref: DRN20755392my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
Mr A is unhappy with the administration charge AAIS has charged for changing  his address. 
Ive taken his comments  into account, but I havent seen anything to show that its treated 
him unfairly.  
It appears that AAIS may have told Mr A that it would charge  him £25 on the telephone to 
make the change. But its internal records suggests that it only charged  him £12.50.  I dont 
know why he was given  misleading information, but it doesnt change  my opinion  in this 
case. Mr A thinks AAIS has manipulated the data to say it charged  less than it did. But I 
havent seen anything to support this. And I think it would be unlikely AAIS  would have done 
so.
The terms of the agreement clearly sets out that AAIS can charge up to £25 for making any 
changes to the policy. And this is common industry  practice. And £25 is in line with what  
other insurers or brokers charge. 
Mr A thinks  the charge  is excessive for what he says was a three minute telephone 
conversation. But I disagree.  Even if AAIS had charged £25, I think that would have been 
fair. AAIS is entitled to charge an administration fee to cover  its costs in carrying  out the 
work required to make  changes on the policy  this includes staffing costs and administration 
costs of updating the insurers database  and sending out a letter confirming  the change. I 
cannot say £25 is unfair for this.
I note AAIS  incorrectly wrote to Mr A to say that there would  be no charge  for the change, 
which was incorrect. But Mr A was already aware of the charge. And I havent seen anything 
to show that he lost out as a result of this. So I dont think it needs to compensate  him for 
this error.
Finally, Mr A is unhappy AAIS took eight weeks to respond to his complaint. But the dispute  
regulations allow a business up to eight weeks to respond to a complaint. And AAIS 
responded within that time. So, while I understand Mr As comments  in this respect,  I cant 
say AAIS  acted unreasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2075539