K820x#14complaint
K, a limited  company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc told it that there would 
not be any issues in opening a current account  and providing it with a business  loan.
background
A director of K met with a relationship manger  from NatWest on 24 May 2018. He discussed 
transferring the banking  for K to NatWest. And he says he explained the urgency involved 
and that K needed a loan of £20,000 for an important  transaction  in 45 days. K complains 
about the time taken to process the account application. When  it applied  for a loan this was 
declined by NatWest.  K says that NatWest failed  in its duty of care and did not communicate 
clearly. As a result the director had to use his personal funds resulting in loss for him.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that NatWest had 
followed its normal processes. Its relationship manager  had said that a loan application 
would need to be made online. And although  K had said that the application  was urgent on 
24 May 2018 it did not start the application process  until 4 July 2018. He did not find 
NatWest had made a mistake.
K is represented in this complaint and did not agree. It wanted the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. The representative said it would make more  detailed comments about 
the points it considered had been  overlooked. I gave it extra  time to do so. But, as it has not 
sent anything  further,  I think  its now fair for me to make my assessment based on what I 
already have.
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Key here is what was said to K in the meeting of 24 May 2018.  It is agreed that this was a 
relatively long meeting   the relationship manager  says he spent  two and a half hours  
discussing what had happened with Ks business.  He says that he told K that he would not 
be processing an application himself as it was going  to be for a loan below his minimum 
portfolio size. But that in principle NatWest could  lend money to K subject to application.  K 
would need to apply through Business Connects and he provided the details.  
I dont doubt that the relationship manager  said to K that it should  apply.  And that this 
followed a detailed review. I cant know exactly what was said.  But I find it more  likely than 
not that the relationship  manager told K that any decision was subject to application  
especially as it would  not be lending in his portfolio.  So I dont find that NatWest  committed  
to provide this lending.
K says that the application was time critical.  But as our investigator says it did not apply for a 
current account until 4 July 2018.  NatWest  has shown that it sent an email confirming the 
account was open on 25 July 2018  and that it dispatched debit cards.  Before that NatWest 
had identified some  issues with the mandate  form for the application.  This was resubmitted 
by K on 23 July 2018. And NatWest needed other information including about  Ks change of 
name. Although  Ks representative  said it expected the account open  in three to five working 
days I dont have a basis on the evidence to find that this was a firm commitment by 
Ref: DRN29651752NatWest. And thats especially where  further  information was needed or an issue  with the 
application seemed to have been  identified.
K says it first submitted a loan application  on 1 August  2018.  It was asked for more 
information which it emailed. And then to arrange for an appointment which  it says took 
place on 9 August  2018. K then discussed  an issue with one of its directors having adverse 
credit information. K says it was told to remove this director from the company. I can see 
from public  records that this happened very soon after.  And K says it then continued  with the 
application on 14 August 2018. It received the decision declining the loan on 15 August 
2018. This was due to NatWests assessment that it would not be able to service the loan. K 
appealed this but was unsuccessful. It was not happy with the suggestion by NatWest that it 
consider alternative  more  expensive types of finance.
K says that the director withdrew  the money  from his pension fund for the transaction  
causing a tax loss. It wants him to be compensated for this.
I understand why K and the director in particular are disappointed with what happened.  Im 
looking here at the position of K, the complainant in this case,  and a separate  legal entity to 
the director. 
my assessment
In my view it was a matter for NatWest to make  a commercial decision about  whether to 
provide banking facilities and lending for K using its own criteria. And to follow  its own 
processes to determine this. We dont have a role in regulating those.  
I dont see evidence that NatWest gave K any firm assurance that it could provide finance. K 
reasonably knew  it had to apply  for this. I understand why K thinks the relationship  manager 
ought to have told it at the outset that NatWest would not be able to assist.  But thats clearly 
not what the manager thought based on the information and discussion he had with K. I 
dont have sufficient  evidence to find that he made  a mistake  or ought to have given K 
different information  at that time.
I appreciate that NatWest  was not able to meet the timescales that K required. And that it 
says that its director has made  a financial loss as a result. I am only considering  here what 
happened to K, the complainant here.  And, for the reasons Ive already given, I dont find 
NatWest made a mistake  or acted unreasonably.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2965175