K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the way hes been treated by Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Birmingham Midshires. He complains  that he was led to believe he could take over the 
mortgage that had been in his late fathers name  after he passed away. But when he came 
to apply to take over the mortgage,  Birmingham Midshires wouldnt consider an application.
background
Mr B lived with his late father  who had an interest only mortgage  secured against the 
property they both lived in. When Mr Bs father  passed away  in 2012, Mr B paid the 
mortgage payments  on behalf of the estate, and had several conversations  with Birmingham  
Midshires about the mortgage. In 2016,  the mortgage term ended, and Mr B wanted to apply 
to take the mortgage into his own name so he could remain in the property. But Birmingham 
Midshires explained they dont offer new mortgage  lending on residential properties  anymore 
so couldnt consider an application. 
Mr B complained to Birmingham Midshires, as he said he had been told by them previously 
that hed be able to take over the mortgage,  and had even done an assessment of his 
income and expenditure. He was unhappy that the business wouldnt allow  him to take over 
the mortgage, and was worried that he would lose his home as he wasnt  able to get a 
mortgage elsewhere.
Birmingham Midshires issued their final response  to Mr Bs complaint in June 2017. They 
apologised if Mr B felt he had been given  incorrect information, and offered him £500 to 
compensate for this. They explained  that the terms of the mortgage say that the mortgage is 
to be redeemed in the event of death. They also said that as the term had ended, Mr B will 
need to find alternative  finance if he wishes to stay in the property. They suggested Mr B 
seek independent advice about  his options, and referred him to some charities that may 
have been able to help him. They also said that given the circumstances they will allow  him 
some time to explore his options before taking further action to recover  the mortgage 
balance.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service.  He was unhappy that hed been having 
conversations with Birmingham Midshires since 2012, paying the mortgage and the arrears 
on the account, and had been led to believe that he could  take over the mortgage  until 
recently. He didnt think it was fair that because  Birmingham Midshires  no longer accept new 
lending that hes going to lose his home.  He told us that he suffers  with a mental  health  
condition, and this whole  situation is causing him a lot of stress,  anxiety  and sleepless 
nights. He said hes tried everything the business have suggested but hes unable to find 
another solution. 
Our investigator looked into things and explained that, whilst  she empathised with Mr Bs 
situation, she didnt  think Birmingham Midshires needed to do anything  more to resolve this 
complaint. She said that whilst she agreed Birmingham Midshires could have been clearer  
with Mr B over the years, there wasnt any evidence he had been  told he could stay in the 
house and take over the mortgage. And in any event  Birmingham Midshires dont lend on 
residential properties anymore so she couldnt  ask them  to transfer the mortgage  into his 
own name. She thought Birmingham Midshires had acted reasonably  by allowing Mr B more 
time to explore  his options,  and that the £500 theyd offered him was a fair way to resolve  
things.
Ref: DRN25968902Mr B disagreed, so the complaints been  passed to me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to make it clear  what Im able to consider within the scope of this complaint. This 
complaint is being  brought by Mr B, about the information he has been  given  and the 
outcome of his application to take the mortgage  into his name.  The responsibility to repay 
the mortgage remains with the estate of Mr Bs late father, not Mr B directly. So I will not be 
considering the way Birmingham Midshires have attempted to collect the outstanding 
mortgage balance  from the estate. I understand  Mr B has since raised a separate  complaint 
about that matter.
Since Mr Bs late father passed away, Mr B has been making payments to the mortgage on 
behalf of the estate. I can see from the contact notes for the account that hes had several 
conversations with Birmingham Midshires over the years, including about  payment 
arrangements when there have been  arrears  on the account. I appreciate Birmingham 
Midshires have said that this mortgage  was repayable upon  Mr Bs late fathers death, but 
actually  they seem to have accepted Mr Bs payments and were satisfied for the mortgage 
to continue whilst these  were being  paid. 
However, the original  mortgage term did end in 2016, and whilst extensions have been 
given, the full balance remains outstanding. Ive reviewed all of the contact  notes provided  
on the account, and its clear  that Mr B has always intended to take this mortgage over into 
his own name. And hes been open  with Birmingham  Midshires  about this. Whilst I cant  see 
a point in any of these conversations where  Birmingham  Midshires  assured him that this 
would be possible,  I cant see they told him he wouldnt  be able to do this either. For this 
reason, I can understand why it would have  come as a surprise  to Mr B in 2017 that he 
wouldnt be able to take the mortgage  over into his own name with Birmingham Midshires.
So Ive thought about whether Birmingham Midshires could have done more  to help Mr B 
given what they knew about his situation  and his intentions.  By the time Mr B had the Grant 
of Probate for his late fathers estate and shared this with Birmingham Midshires in 2014, 
they had stopped accepting new lending on residential mortgages.  So Im satisfied Mr B 
hasnt lost out on the opportunity to apply for a mortgage with Birmingham Midshires by the 
fact he wasnt told he couldnt  do this sooner. The estate wouldnt have been able to make 
any changes to the mortgage  until Birmingham  Midshires had the Grant  of Probate so Im 
satisfied that before  they had this in 2014,  there was little they could do.
The mortgage is currently in the name of Mr Bs late fathers estate.  The mortgage term has 
also ended. So its not a case  of simply moving  the mortgage into Mr Bs own name to 
resolve things here. In order for Mr B to stay in his home the estate will need to repay the 
existing mortgage.  Mr B could do this by taking out a new mortgage, but he has told us hes 
been unable  to do this. So I can understand why hes looking to Birmingham Midshires  for 
alternative options. But unfortunately, they no longer  offer residential mortgages, and havent  
done for some time. So I dont think theyre  treating Mr B unfairly by not accepting  an 
application from him. There are other options I would have expected  Birmingham Midshires  
to consider in normal circumstances, had the mortgage been in Mr Bs name.  Especially as 
there are other firms  within the Bank  of Scotland group that do still offer residential 
mortgages. But Mr B is not the existing customer,  as the mortgage isnt in his name. 
Ref: DRN25968903Mr B says that if Birmingham Midshires told him about his options earlier,  he could have 
taken action sooner  to find an alternative. Whilst I appreciate this is likely to have been the 
case, Im not persuaded that Mr B has lost out because of this. Mr Bs clear  intention is to 
stay in the property.  Birmingham  Midshires have  allowed him to do this whilst the mortgage 
has still been in place. Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr B would have found  it easier  
to take out a mortgage in earlier years  than he has done now.  So I dont consider hes been  
put in a worse  position due to Birmingham Midshires  not clarifying  his understanding  earlier. 
Im persuaded that Birmingham Midshires have taken into account  Mr Bs specific  
circumstances and the challenges  he faces  as a result of his mental health condition.  
Theyve referred him to relevant charities and organisations,  and encouraged him to seek 
independent advice. Theyve  allowed the estate more time to look into alternative options 
before attempting to recover  the outstanding  balance and I think  this is reasonable 
considering what  Mr B has told them. Im satisfied  the £500 theyve offered for the customer  
service is reasonable  in the circumstances. And they should pay Mr B this amount if they 
havent already.
Overall, whilst I appreciate the difficult situation  Mr B has found himself in, Im not persuaded 
Birmingham Midshires need  to do anything more to put things right here.  
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2021.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2596890