K822xComplaint
Mr W complains that Barclays  Bank UK Plc lost important documents.  
Background 
Mr W has told us he was a victim  of fraud  with a third party  business  that has connections 
with Barclays. As part of the fraud  investigation he took identification and important 
documents into a Barclays branch to be copied. Barclays branch staff then put the 
documents into the internal mail to send to the third party. 
The third party later advised that the documents hadnt been received  and Barclays  wasnt 
able to find them. Mr W complained and Barclays responded  on 24 January 2019 and 
apologised for losing his documents. Barclays said that if any fraud occurs due to its mistake  
it will investigate and ensure he doesnt lose out financially. Barclays  also offered £200  to 
resolve the complaint. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an adjudicator.  The 
adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint  as she felt Barclays offer was fair in the 
circumstances. Mr W asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed  to me to make a 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr W is upset. Hes told us that hes been  a victim of fraud and was 
providing the documents to Barclays to forward on to the third party so it could complete an 
investigation. Its clear that Mr W has been through a difficult  time. But I can only look at 
Barclays actions in relation to the documents it lost, not the fraud Mr W has told us about. 
Mr W wants Barclays to locate his documents but its confirmed that isnt possible. Barclays  
says that the documents were sent via its internal  postal service and feels  its unlikely they 
were lost externally.  And I note Barclays final response says that if Mr W is a victim of fraud 
due to its error it will investigate and cover his losses.  Whilst I appreciate  why Mr W is upset 
and has ongoing  concerns that Barclays hasnt been  able to find his lost documents, I think 
its clear they are no longer available. I understand Mr W resent  the documents after another 
branch visit. 
Barclays investigated Mr Ws complaint and offered him a total of £200  for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by losing the documents and him having to revisit the branch to 
supply them again. 
Whilst I understand Mr Ws concerns,  Im satisfied the £200 its offered fairly reflects  the 
impact of the issues raised  so Im not telling Barclays to increase the settlement. As Im 
satisfied Barclays has dealt with the complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN26994942Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2699494