K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that The Mortgage  Business  Plc (TMB) acted unfairly and 
unreasonably when dealing with their mortgage.  They want matters  put right.
background
Mr and Mrs K had a mortgage with TMB taken out through a broker in 2008.  They  got into 
arrears. But in 2017, Mr K called  to pay the £50 agreed as a monthly  payment due to 
financial difficulties. He said that this took over two hours as the staff wanted to talk about his 
income and spending. Mr K said hed explained  that this was pointless due to his personal 
circumstances and because due to the amount  of arrears, the mortgage had been 
transferred to the pre-litigation  team (who Mr K was dealing with separately  and wanted a 
response from this team). Mr K believed TMB had said it wouldnt respond  to his letter. He 
said his only real solution was to sell, and the property was already on the market.
Mr K also said that TMB  wanted to charge him £100  to send a field agent to visit the 
property, value it for rental purposes and talk to him about the situation. Mr K thought  TMB 
should pay for this as it would benefit, not him. Mr K said hed taken advice from others.  He 
said that TMB had never checked his financial position or whether he was looking for work, 
and Mr K felt it shouldve acted earlier as repossession  was inevitable.
Mr and Mrs K complained to TMB.  It said it was willing to pay £50 to cover the costs of the 
lengthy phone call, which had taken too long, but Mr K had rejected this offer.  TMB 
explained that its staff hadnt said it wouldnt respond to letters, but that it mightnt be 
possible before  the agent was due to visit. It confirmed  that expressions  of dissatisfaction 
were dealt with by the Customer Services  team,  regardless  of where  the complaint was sent.
TMB said that due to the amount of arrears, it was reasonable to send  a field agent  to visit 
the property, and branch staff didnt have  the necessary skills or training to deal with this 
type of issue. The agent would be able to understand Mr and Mrs Ks financial position  and 
the options available, and TMB noted  that its letters made it clear  the visit could be 
cancelled. It said it hadnt arranged the visit so there  was no charge. It asked Mr and Mrs K 
to contact it to review whether a repayment  plan was possible.
Mr and Mrs K complained to this service. The investigators view was that TMB wasnt at 
fault. She said that the terms and conditions  of the mortgage, accepted by Mr and Mrs K 
when they took out the mortgage, allowed the costs incurred by TMB  to be paid by the 
borrowers, including action taken due to arrears (such as field agent visits). The investigator  
said that it wasnt unfair or unreasonable to send an agent, who was a specialist. She also 
said that it was fair and reasonable  to ask for details of income and spending, but the time 
Mr K was forced  to spend on one call was excessive. £50 was sufficient  in her view.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed. They said TMB was at fault and it had changed its procedure. The 
investigator explained that this was because the arrears were so high and different  lenders 
could reasonably have different processes. Mr K then raised new issues and the investigator 
explained that these didnt  form part of this complaint.
Ref: DRN20484532my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to deal with the core of the 
complaint made to this service  the lengthy phone call, the field agent  issue and what Mr K 
was told about  whether  TMB would respond to his letter  to the pre-litigation  team.
Mr and Mrs K are clearly in financial difficulties as they owe a significant  amount in arrears to 
TMB. Lenders have to treat those  in financial difficulties fairly, but this doesnt  mean  it cant 
take action, review the position or use their commercial judgement.
The industry has common processes when dealing  with those in arrears.  For example, when 
agreeing a repayment plan, lenders are required to check  that its affordable for the borrower  
 agreeing an unaffordable plan just increases the stress of the situation and can delay 
repossession (increasing  the debt and reducing  any equity available). But lenders arent  
required to check what a borrower tells them (though they can)  if the borrower tells a 
lender about their income and spending, and that theyre looking for work, a lender wouldnt 
be required  to demand evidence of this. The approach  of a lender with a second charge is 
likely to be stricter than a lender with a first charge as theres more risk.
And field agents are a valuable part of the industrys process to help those in financial 
difficulties. While Mr and Mrs K mayve  received  advice elsewhere, not everyone is in the 
same position. Field agents can also report back to the lender on the state  of the property 
and any reasons why a borrower may be vulnerable  from such  visits. The work  field agents 
do help both the lender and the borrower  and can avoid possession proceedings being 
issued. But their visits arent mandatory,  and I note TMB in its letters  to Mr and Mrs K made 
it clear that the visit wouldnt be arranged if they objected. Indeed, TMB didnt  arrange  the 
visit due to Mr Ks objection. This is fair and reasonable.
Mr K objects to the principle that the borrower should pay for any field agent costs. But as he 
wasnt charged, I cant say that he was unfairly or unreasonably  treated.  And the costs are 
set out in the list of charges when the mortgage  was taken out. Theres  also the principle 
that when borrowers  fail to pay as agreed, its fair and reasonable to charge them  for any 
extra work caused as a result. This is covered by the terms and conditions of the mortgage.
Mr K felt that the time he spent on the phone was unreasonable.  TMB agreed and offered 
£50 to cover  the costs.  I think that this offer was fair and reasonable. Mr and Mrs K were 
undoubtedly in a difficult position, but £50 more than covers the cost of the call and any 
stress caused by it. And I dont think Mr K was told that TMB wouldnt answer his letters  
Im satisfied that he was told that regardless of where he sent his complaint, the Customer  
Services team would respond and given the timing, that mightnt  be before a visit took place. 
This isnt unfair or unreasonable.
Ref: DRN20484533my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Mr and Mrs K whether 
they wish to accept  The Mortgage Business Plcs offer of £50. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to accept or reject my 
decision before  23 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2048453