K822xcomplaint
G, a limited company,  complains about delays to a payment into its account with Starling 
Bank Limited. G is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr G. Mr G says Starling 
gave him inconsistent information about the payment and the gifts sent by Starling arent 
sufficient compensation.
background 
A payment into Gs account was received by Starling in February 2019. The payment was 
held by Starling  while it made checks. It released  the payment about 24 hours later.  Mr G 
says this was too long and he was given inconsistent information by Starling about  whether it 
had received the funds and whether the supporting information hed sent had been received. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
24 hours isnt an unreasonable timeframe to release  the funds, given the number of 
transactions and checks Starling processes  for its customers  each  day. 
While  Mr G was given conflicting  information,  Starling confirmed receipt of the payment 
before the end of the day and confirmed its release first thing the next day. Our 
adjudicator said £50 would be fair compensation for the inconvenience caused to G by 
the inconsistent  information.
Starling agreed  to pay £50 compensation. G didnt  agree this was fair. Mr G said £50 isnt 
enough compensation for Starling not responding straight away or at least  confirming receipt  
of his documents.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
In February 2019  Starling  received a credit for Gs account. Its records  show the payment 
arrived at about  9.30am.  
Just after 5pm that day Starling sent a message to Mr G saying  it had received a credit and 
needed supporting evidence. Mr G sent the required documents  immediately. Starling 
confirmed receipt of the documents before 5.30pm.  
The terms and conditions  of Gs account  say Starling can hold payments while checks are 
made. I think  it was entitled to ask G for information and hold the payment until the 
information had been received and reviewed.
Starling says the team responsible for reviewing  payments and supporting documents  work 
until 5.30pm. And they have to review  payments for other customers.  They didnt complete 
checks on Gs payment to allow the funds to be released the same  day. 
Ref: DRN28161332Mr G didnt get a prompt  and clear response  when he contacted Starling about  the payment  
at about 6.30pm. I cant see that this had any effect on the time taken to release the funds. 
But I can understand Mr Gs frustration. 
Starling confirmed to Mr G that it had completed  checks and would release the payment 
before 9.30 the next day. I dont think the 24 hours taken by Starling to complete checks and 
release the funds was unreasonable. 
This complaint is from G. I cant usually award  compensation to third parties (such as Mr G) 
or for a third partys loss or upset. Mr G hasnt said that G suffered any financial loss. But Gs 
director (Mr G) was caused inconvenience  and I can award compensation to G for that.
I can understand that Mr G wanted to confirm there werent any problems with the payment. 
He was caused some inconvenience when Starling wasnt clear about  whether it had the 
information it needed to complete its checks and release the payment. Ive also taken into 
account that Starling confirmed it received the payment before the end of the first day and 
released the funds  at the start of the following  day.
I think, in the circumstances,  £50 compensation for the inconvenience  caused is fair and 
reasonable. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Starling Bank Limited  to pay £50 to G.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2816133