K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about CIS General Insurance Limiteds service in connection with his 
motor insurance policy.
background
Mr A was in an accident that wasn't his fault. CIS arranged to repair  his car. It also referred 
him to a credit hire company (CHC)  to sort out a hire car and for solicitors to pursue a claim 
for his personal injury.
Mr A wasn't happy with the hire car the CHC provided. He also wasn't happy that the 
solicitors might charge  fees to pursue his personal  injury claim. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didn't think  CIS had done  anything wrong. 
Mr A didn't  agree so his complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
hire car
Mr A was unhappy he was provided with petrol rather than a diesel car while his car was 
being repaired.
Mr As policy  says that if his car is being  repaired by one of CISs approved repairers  then 
he will be entitled to a courtesy car. But that car wouldn't be any larger than a small 
hatchback, typically  with a 1 litre engine capacity.  But because  the accident  wasnt Mr As 
fault CIS offered to refer him to the CHC which could provide  him with a larger car similar to 
his own. Mr A accepted  that referral.
It might help if I explain that, where  a drivers been  involved in a non-fault accident, CHCs 
may offer to provide hire cars similar to the consumers own car. But CHCs are independent 
from insurers, they are entirely  separate  businesses. So when a CHC is involved any hire 
car supplied  isn't being provided  under  the terms of the consumers  own insurance policy 
and the CHC isnt acting as agent  for the insurer. Instead the consumer signs an agreement 
with the CHC  that allows  it to seek  to recover its costs for the hire car from the other  drivers  
insurers when the claim is settled. So the hire car agreement is between  the CHC and the 
consumer. So in this case CIS wasnt involved in that.
I note Mr A isn't complaining that CIS didn't make  it clear  that it was referring  him to a CHC; 
instead his complaint is that he was unhappy with the hire car provided. But as I've said 
above CIS didn't provide the hire car, the CHC did. And as that's a separate  business from 
CIS, CIS isn't responsible for any complaint  that Mr A has about  the quality of the car 
provided. If Mr A still wishes to pursue that complaint  if he hasn't already done so - he 
should complain  directly to the CHC in the first instance.
personal injury
Ref: DRN24035652Mr A is also unhappy that CIS won't  fund his legal costs to pursue a claim for personal 
injuries. But Mr As motor policy doesn't cover such a claim. And Mr A didn't take out 
additional cover  that would  cover  his legal expenses to pursue a personal injury claim. So 
Mr A simply doesn't have any entitlement to help from CIS for a personal injury  claim under 
the terms of his policy. CIS did refer Mr A to solicitors  so that he could make that claim. But 
CIS told him that the solicitors may charge him a fee. And given Mr A didn't have any 
entitlement to claim for legal expenses under the terms of his policy  with CIS, I think that was 
reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2403565