K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to FICL in 
my decision.
Mrs D says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs D took out with a store card in June 1999.  It was 
added to her account when she applied for the card in the store  whilst shopping.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs D mainly said that the policy terms, including the costs and benefits, werent explained 
and it wasnt made  clear that she couldve said no to taking out the policy.  She also said 
that she didnt  need PPI as she had other ways to make the monthly repayments if she 
wasnt working. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint.  Ill explain why.
It isnt reasonable  to expect Mrs D to remember exactly  what  was discussed  when she took 
out PPI so long ago. I have to look at everything  and decide  what  I think is most likely. 
FICL has given us a copy of Mrs Ds completed store  card application. Mrs D has signed in 
the PPI part of the form, next to where  it says Yes, I would like to protect  my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account  with the relevant  monthly premium until further 
notice. I think its reasonable to expect Mrs D wouldve first read through anything she was 
asked to sign. It also says here: Only sign this box if you require Account Cover. Mrs D 
would've been able to see this information on the form. So, although I dont know what 
mightve been said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been clear from the paperwork that it was 
up to Mrs D to say if she wanted to have PPI added on. 
Mrs D also signed the completed application at the end of the form. So it seems to me that 
she must have agreed with the information on the form at the time  even if, understandably,  
she has forgotten this now.  On balance, I find that Mrs D was aware the policy  was optional 
and she chose to take it out.
As Mrs D made this application in a store I dont think  a recommendation was made by FICL. 
This means that FICL  didnt have to check if the policy  was suitable for her. But it still needed  
to make sure it gave  Mrs D enough clear information  to decide if the policy  was right for her, 
taking into account  her personal circumstances. 
Ref: DRN23481852Its possible some information FICL gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs D wouldve acted differently,  and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
Ive taken into account what Mrs D told us about  her sick pay and being entitled  to a 
redundancy payment. But this policy couldve paid a benefit for longer than she couldve 
relied on getting sick pay. It couldve  paid out for as long as Mrs D was off work sick or if 
Mrs D lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. In the event of a successful claim, the 
policy couldve cleared  the card balance if Mrs D wasnt able to go back to work. Being 
entitled to redundancy money  wouldnt have  helped Mrs D if she was off sick. And the policy  
offered a different sort of protection and paid out in different  circumstances to having a 
pension. So I think Mrs D couldve benefitted from having PPI.
 
It doesnt look as if Mrs D was affected  by any of the things the policy  didnt cover. So, I dont 
think more information  about the policy exclusions and limitations  wouldve made any 
difference to Mrs Ds decision to take out PPI. 
I dont think its likely  that FICL gave Mrs D clear enough information about  the costs  of the 
PPI policy. But Mrs D chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so she seems to 
have wanted it at the time. And Mrs D indicated on the application form that she was happy 
to pay to have  it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Mrs D, I think it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance  I think  shed still 
have taken out the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2348185