K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that he went over his outpatient allowance  under a group private medical  
insurance policy with BUPA  Insurance Limited. 
background
Mr K has an annual outpatient allowance of £1,500 under the policy. In 2018, Mr K was 
having physio  and claiming for the costs of this under his outpatient allowance. 
On 30 August 2018, Mr K spoke with BUPA as he wanted to see a consultant. At this time,  
he had £616.58  remaining  of his allowance. BUPA authorised an initial consultation,  minor  
diagnostic tests, and a follow-up consultation.
After Mr K had the initial consultation and diagnostic tests,  the cost of this exceeded  his limit, 
leaving him responsible  for paying  the shortfall.  
Mr K has complained about this, as he thinks BUPA ought to have known the cost of the 
authorised treatment would likely take him over his allowance,  and should  have made  him 
aware of this. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  BUPA had made it 
clear to Mr K how much was left of his outpatient  allowance. She didnt think  BUPA could 
have reasonably known the authorised treatment would  exceed this. 
Mr K didnt accept our investigators findings,  so the matter has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr K understands that the cost of any outpatient treatment which goes over his policy 
allowance is his responsibility to pay. However, his complaint centres round the authorisation 
phone call with BUPA of 30 August 2018.  He says he made it clear in this call that he only 
wanted the treatment if the costs would be covered by his policy. He thinks BUPA  wrongly 
implied to him that all of the authorised treatment  would  be covered by his outpatient 
allowance. 
Ive therefore  listened  carefully  to this phone call. 
When Mr K first spoke with BUPA, he said his physio had referred him to a particular 
consultant. BUPA explained that consultant  wasnt fee-assured,  and that meant that if Mr K 
needed a procedure  such as injections, then the consultant may charge more than BUPAs 
guidelines, which may leave Mr K with a shortfall.  Mr K explained he thought  it likely  that he 
would need injections. He said he didnt want  to make any payments  himself, if the cost 
wasnt going to fall within his outpatient allowance. 
BUPA therefore offered to find him a fee-assured  BUPA consultant. Mr K gave his preferred 
hospital, and BUPA found four potential consultants he could see. The details of these  were  
sent to him by email, and he was advised he should choose one and make the appointment 
directly. 
Ref: DRN23080432Mr K then wanted to confirm his understanding of the outpatient  allowance.  He asked if a 
scan and injections would  fall within  the outpatient allowance. BUPA confirmed that 
injections wouldnt fall under his allowance, and the cost of this would be covered  in full with 
a fee-assured consultant. BUPA also confirmed that an MRI scan wouldnt come out of his 
allowance, but an ultrasound and x-rays would. Later on in the call, BUPA  also told Mr K that 
blood tests would come out of his allowance. 
Mr K then asked if he had enough allowance left. BUPA said that based  on the bills it had 
received and paid to date, he had £616.58  remaining. Mr K was advised to monitor this 
amount because anything above it would be his liability  to pay. 
At the end of the call, Mr K confirmed his understanding that the authorisation code BUPA 
had given him covered minor diagnostic tests and an MRI scan. 
Having listened  to the call, I dont agree with Mr K that BUPA  implied that the treatment it 
was authorising would be covered by his remaining  allowance. Ill explain why. 
I think it was right for BUPA to tell Mr K that the consultant he had intended to see wasnt  
fee-assured, and that meant he may be liable for any shortfall  if he were to need a procedure  
(such as an injection).  Mr K made  it clear  in response to this that he didnt want to make  any 
payments himself if the cost wasnt covered by his outpatient allowance. Mr K didnt realise  
at this point that injections  wouldnt fall under his outpatient allowance. However, BUPA later 
made this clear. 
When Mr K asked  if he had enough  allowance left, BUPA told him his remaining allowance 
and also advised  him to monitor this because he would be liable to pay anything  above it. I 
think Mr K would have understood from this that the authorised treatment wouldnt 
necessarily be covered by his remaining  allowance,  and that it was his responsibility to 
check this. 
Mr K says that given  his remaining  limit, it was almost certain  he would exceed it. He thinks 
BUPA ought  to have known this, or at the very least,  warned him that the initial and follow-up 
consultation alone would take him very close to his limit. 
As the investigator  has pointed out, BUPA gave  Mr K a choice of consultants.  It didnt know  
which one he would  choose, or the diagnostic tests that may be carried  out by that 
consultant. I therefore  dont  agree that BUPA should  have known that he may go over his 
limit. 
I do have sympathy for Mr K. Hes explained that the initial consultation and blood tests have 
taken him over his limit, and he cant access his results until he has a follow-up consultation 
which he would have  to pay for. But ultimately, I think  it was Mr Ks responsibility to find out 
the cost of the consultations and intended  tests if he didnt  want to exceed  his remaining 
allowance. As Ive said, I dont think BUPA misled him into thinking  the authorised treatment 
would be covered by his remaining allowance.  
I therefore dont  require BUPA to take any action. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN23080433Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2308043