K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) closed his Help to Buy ISA (HTB  ISA) 
by mistake.
background
Mr S held an HTB ISA with HSBC. In December 2018, he called HSBC  to ask for a 
statement. Hes told our service hed made an offer for a property  so wanted to know how 
much was in his account. The HSBC  advisor  he spoke to called Mr S back  to say what 
would happen  once the account was closed, before closing Mr Ss HTB ISA and transferring 
the money to his current account.
Mr S called HSBC again to explain  he hadnt  wanted to close  his account and asked for it to 
be re-opened. HSBC  explained that under  the HTB ISA scheme rules  that are set by the 
government  it could  only do this if his solicitor provided a Purchase  Failure  Notification 
form. But Mr S says that because he hadnt  yet found a property  to buy  because the offer 
hed made  hadnt  been  accepted in the end - he hadnt appointed  solicitors so couldnt 
provide this. HSBC  said it couldnt do anything more to help.
Mr S complained to HSBC about  the situation.  In its response, HSBC  accepted  that its 
advisor couldve dealt  with his call better and paid him £75 compensation. It paid him a 
further £50 as part of a separate  complaint  he raised about the time taken on the call. Mr S 
wasnt satisfied with this and referred his complaint to our service. He thinks  HSBC made a 
mistake thats cost him the interest he wouldve earned on his HTB ISA if it hadnt been  
closed, and the government bonus he mightve  been  able to apply for if hed bought a 
property. 
He says that he planned to continue saving until he had the maximum amount thats eligible 
for a government bonus  which is £12,000  which wouldve allowed him to apply for a 
government bonus  of £3,000. He thinks HSBC should pay him compensation of £7,400.
An adjudicator considered  Mr Ss complaint but didnt uphold  it because they thought  HSBC  
was entitled to do this under the HTB ISA terms and conditions. Mr S wasnt  satisfied with 
this and asked  for an ombudsmans  decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 November 2019, a copy of which is attached, as it 
forms part of this final decision. I explained why I didnt think  it was fair that HSBC had 
closed the HTB ISA when it had. I said that to put things right, itd be fair for HSBC to pay 
25% of the difference between the limit on the HTB ISA and what  was in the account when it 
closed, this being the applicable rate of the government bonus Mr S would most likely have 
got had HSBC had not closed the account.  I also said that it should  pay him £175 for the 
confusion and frustration  caused here, in addition to the £75 it had already paid.
Both Mr S and HSBC  both accepted  my provisional  decision, so the case  has been passed 
back to me to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN22065312I was pleased to see that both sides accepted my provisional decision.  That means I have 
no reason to depart from the findings I reached in this. So, my decision remains the same.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc should pay Mr S:
25% of the difference between the limit of the HTB ISA and the closing balance  as 
detailed in my provisional decision, and;
£175 to compensate him for the confusion  and frustration  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
James Staples
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN22065313Copy of Provisional Decision
Complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) closed  his Help to Buy ISA (HTB ISA)
by mistake.
Background
Mr S held an HTB ISA with HSBC. In December  2018,  he called HSBC  to ask for a statement. Hes 
told our service hed made an offer for a property so wanted  to know how much was in his account.  
The HSBC advisor he spoke to called Mr S back to say what would happen  once the account  was 
closed, before closing Mr Ss HTB ISA and transferring the money to his current account.
Mr S called HSBC again to explain he hadnt  wanted to close his account  and asked for it to be re-
opened. HSBC explained  that under the HTB ISA scheme  rules   that are set by the government  it 
could only do this if his solicitor provided  a Purchase Failure Notification form. But Mr S says that 
because he hadnt yet found a property to buy  because the offer hed made  hadnt been accepted in 
the end - he hadnt appointed solicitors so couldnt provide this. HSBC said it couldnt  do anything 
more to help.
Mr S complained to HSBC  about the situation. In its response, HSBC accepted that its advisor  
couldve dealt with his call better and paid him £75 compensation. It paid him a further £50 as part of 
a separate complaint he raised  about the time taken  on the call. Mr S wasnt satisfied  with this and 
referred his complaint to our service. He thinks HSBC made a mistake thats cost him the interest he 
wouldve earned  on his HTB ISA if it hadnt been closed, and the government bonus he mightve been 
able to apply for if hed bought  a property.
He says that he planned to continue saving until he had the maximum amount thats eligible for a 
government bonus  which is £12,000   which wouldve allowed him to apply for a government bonus 
of £3,000. He thinks HSBC  should  pay him compensation of £7,400.
An adjudicator considered Mr Ss complaint but didnt  uphold it because they thought  HSBC was 
entitled to do this under the HTB ISA terms and conditions.  Mr S wasnt satisfied with this and asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
Our ombudsman sent Mr S and HSBC  her provisional  thoughts  on this complaint where  she 
explained:
Having listened  to the calls she thought that HSBC misunderstood Mr Ss request, she was 
satisfied on balance that Mr S only wanted a normal statement, instead of the closing 
statement that HSBC  suggested.
HSBC couldve been clearer about what it was doing when it offered to produce a closing 
statement. It explained general information  around account closure that this sort of statement 
generates but didnt  link this to Mr Ss instruction or what HSBC was doing here.
She was satisfied that HSBCs service here had led to Mr S being  disadvantaged through  the 
HTB ISA being closed.
In putting things  right she noted that HSBC couldnt now reopen the ISA because  of the 
government rules around this product and she thought Mr S would be in a worse position if Mr 
S now opened a new ISA.
Ref: DRN22065314She also noted that the relevant bonus on this kind of account was only payable if a customer  
has found  a property to buy, as Mr S hadnt   it wouldnt  be fair for HSBC to pay for losses 
that havent occurred
So she recommended that HSBC should  pay Mr S £425  compensation  for the trouble and 
upset this caused  him, which alongside some existing  compensation, brings the total amount 
to £500.
Mr S didnt agree  but proposed a settlement of £5,850. HSBC didnt agree with her findings  either  and 
said that it felt that while it couldve been clearer in the calls, Mr S should  be held partly responsible 
for the misunderstanding  too. So the case has now been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree  with my colleague about the calls and service around Mr Ss request for a 
statement  and I share  her reasonings too. I think, on balance, that Mr S was only calling to get a 
normal statement  on his account. He asked  for a statement and for his balance, but it was HSBC that 
began to refer to the closing balance  but without the context  around this term. So when HSBC 
called Mr S back, I think he would have thought that it was just reading him some information  it was 
obliged to, rather than it specifically applying to him.
I also agree that during the calls, HSBC  didnt make clear  the consequences of the actions it was 
taking or seek  to clarify Mr Ss intentions and instructions. Had it done so, Im satisfied that Mr S 
wouldve explained that he only wanted a statement, rather than a closing statement. Mr S has 
explained that he didnt  have a property to purchase at the time.  Instead  hed only made an offer, 
which was ultimately unsuccessful. Thats in line with his request for a statement  to understand what 
he had available in the account to demonstrate to a prospective lender or seller.
So while this is a misunderstanding, Im satisfied that HSBC couldve done more to clarify the 
situation here and avoid what  eventually  happened. But where I differ from my colleague is in whats 
appropriate to put things right. The type of account here has a number of rules that apply  to it  
largely because its an account that was set up by the government to help people buy a property.
HSBC has told us that because of these rules, it cant reopen the account. Mr S has told us that he 
doesnt want  it reopened  either  because of all thats happened.  So Ive taken this into account  when 
thinking about  how best to put Mr S in the position he should be in, had HSBC  not closed the account.
The amount that was in Mr Ss HTB ISA and the applicable  bonus has now been paid to him. So his 
position in relation  to this amount isnt affected  by HSBCs actions. But, the closing of the account  
means that he can no longer save any more money in the HTB ISA. Im persuaded that Mr S wouldve 
continued to use the account and save the maximum each month  up to the limit of the account. He 
did this every month up to the closure of the account and I see no reason that he wouldnt  have 
continued to do so.
So I think Mr S has been deprived of the opportunity to earn the government bonus on the amount he 
wouldve continued to save in the account.  I think its fair that HSBC  pays  this to him. I say this 
because the setting up of a new HTB ISA isnt straightforward  and is subject to the government  rules, 
which place limitations on when new accounts can be opened and on how much can be saved each 
month.
Ref: DRN22065315Im minded to tell HSBC  that it needs to calculate the difference between what  the limit of the HTB 
ISA was and the balance when it closed. I calculate this as being  £4795.78 (this being £12,000 - 
£7,204.22). Then HSBC should pay 25% of this amount  to Mr S this being  the rate of the 
government bonus that Mr S wouldve  earned on this money.  I make this to be £1,198.95. If either 
side disagrees with these calculations, they can respond to this decision to explain why and provide 
their own. I will then consider these alongside  any further comments  before reaching  a final decision.
I wont be telling HSBC to pay Mr S any more than this though. I know that Mr S thinks he should be 
given the payments  that he wasnt  able to make  to the ISA. But that wouldnt be fair to HSBC. He 
would always had to have saved and contributed this amount  himself. And while Ive considered his 
revised offer to HSBC,  I dont think  I can ask it to pay any more than Ive outlined  here to put Mr S in 
the position he should be in. So while I think its fair for HSBC to pay the bonus,  I dont  think it needs 
to do any more than this.
Then I come to the amount my colleague suggested for compensation. In my view, while this situation 
has clearly  caused Mr S some confusion, frustration and inconvenience - £425 seems quite high to 
me. I think, instead, £175 is fairer as it brings  the overall  amount payable  here to £250. Alongside the 
new offer of the bonus on Mr Ss ISA, I hope both sides will view this as a fair outcome overall.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr S:
25% of the difference between the limit of the HTB ISA and the closing balance  as detailed  in 
this decision, and;
£175  to compensate  him for the confusion and frustration caused.
James Staples
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2206531