K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that she had an agreement in place with Santander UK Plc to repay  her 
overdraft facility over 15 months. However,  it has since  defaulted  her account and she 
complains she wasnt notified of this possibility.  
background
Miss M had an outstanding balance of over £500  with Santander for account ending  xx68.  In 
December 2017  she set up an arrangement to repay the balance  over 15 months  at £37 a 
month. Miss M called Santander in January 2018  as she had missed  the January payment 
date due to other commitments.  She made  the payment and arranged  for future payments to 
be made later in the month. 
During February and March 2018 Miss M didnt make any further payments but made 
requests for breathing  space for 30 days. Ultimately, these breathing spaces were agreed.  
At the beginning  of April 2018 Miss M called again  and asked for another  30 day breathing  
space. But this was declined.  
Miss M made payments of £5 in April and May 2018. When she tried to make a payment in 
June she discovered  she couldnt access her account online as it had been defaulted. She 
complained as she says she wasnt made aware  of the consequences  of not keeping up 
repayments or that it could default.  Santander didnt uphold the complaint as it was satisfied 
this had been explained. 
Not happy with that Miss M asked us to look into the matter. Our investigator  didnt uphold  
the complaint  as she was satisfied Santander had explained the consequences in its calls 
with her and provided  extracts  from letters Miss M had been  sent setting this out. She was 
also satisfied Santander had correctly sent a default notice. 
Miss M is unhappy with the outcome, particularly as we havent  been able to listen fully to 
the calls. And so she asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
Miss M entered into a repayment arrangement  with Santander to repay her overdraft 
balance over a 15 month period at £37 a month.  The first payment was made,  albeit late. 
Miss M was very apologetic in the call about  the amount being  late and asked if she could 
arrange further repayments  for later in the month.  This was agreed.  During  this call, Miss M 
was also told that if she broke the arrangement, this could result in interest  and charges 
being added to the account, and it being defaulted. Miss M confirmed  her understanding  of 
this. So Im satisfied Miss M was made  aware, at the outset, of the consequences of 
breaking the payment arrangement. 
Breathing space was agreed during February  and March. No payments were  made  during  
this time so two payments  were  outstanding,  but interest and charges continued to be held in 
abeyance. At the beginning  of April Miss M called  Santander again  to ask for further  
breathing space. Unfortunately, having  listened  to the call, it doesnt appear  to be complete.  I 
Ref: DRN28848972appreciate this is concerning for Miss M but where the information is incomplete I base my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities and the wider surrounding  circumstances. 
The parts of the call I have been  able to listen  to concern Miss M asking for more  breathing  
space. She is very grateful for what had happened  to date and reassured Santander this 
was a temporary situation,  which was why she hadnt sought any debt advice. The call is 
placed on hold and the second part of the call appears to confirm a new arrangement has 
been put in place, as Miss M is told a letter would be sent out explaining  that. But there  was 
no discussion of a new payment arrangement before that, so it appears there is a part of the 
call missing. And the call notes dont really  shed any light on that other than to confirm  
another breathing space period was declined. 
The following  day Santander sent a letter which confirmed a new agreement to repay  the 
overdrawn balance on the account. Unfortunately it doesnt detail the amount.  So it is 
possible it was agreed for £5 a month  to be paid.  But it could equally have been for a 
different amount entirely.  Importantly I note the letter, which  Miss M has also provided a 
copy of, explains that information will still be recorded  with credit reference agencies  and the 
account could  still be defaulted. 
A default notice was sent to Miss M on 23 April 2018 as she was in arrears.  I know  Miss M 
says she didnt receive this. But it was correctly  addressed and most correctly addressed 
mail is correctly  delivered. In the absence of any reason why it wouldnt have arrived,  I think  
it was most likely correctly delivered.  Miss M didnt contact Santander  about  repayments and 
so the account  was defaulted in line with the notice. Santander has followed the correct  
process and Im satisfied  Miss M was notified  of this possibility on several  occasions,  both in 
writing and verbally. 
I do understand and appreciate this will have an impact on Miss Ms credit history, but as the 
account was defaulted correctly, and as credit file information should be an accurate 
reflection of the account history, I wont be asking Santander to amend that. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject  my decision before 
24 May 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2884897