K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland Plc wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim 
to a scam.
background
Mr M holds  a current account with Bank of Scotland. In 2017, he was approached by 
someone who said they would help him join the help-to-buy scheme.  Mr M now believes this 
was in fact a scam, but he did not realise that at the time. I will refer to the individual  
throughout as the fraudster.
In July 2017, Mr M transferred £1,500 to the payment details hed been given by the 
fraudster.
In August  2017,  Mr M withdrew £350 in cash from his account  and gave this to the 
fraudster,together with another £300  in cash hed borrowed from a relative.
After hed paid over this money the fraudster  broke  off contact and Mr M lost what  hed paid. 
In total, Mr M had paid £2,150 to the fraudster, of which £1,850  had been  withdrawn  from his 
Bank of Scotland account.
Mr M reported the matter  to Bank  of Scotland. Bank  of Scotland explained it didnt think  it 
was liable for the money Mr M had lost.
Mr M then brought his complaint  to our service and one of our investigators looked into
things. Our investigator didnt think Bank  of Scotland could have done anything  to prevent 
the scam  - she didnt  think the withdrawals Mr M had made  were  particularly out of the 
ordinary, or so unusual  that it should have raised  Bank of Scotlands suspicions. So she 
didnt think Bank of Scotland could fairly be required to refund Mr M.
However, Bank of Scotland accepted  that it had given Mr M poor customer  service when 
hed first reported the loss. It made  him a payment of £50 in recognition of this.
Mr M didnt  accept our investigators view.  So the complaint has been passed  to me to reach 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the 
time.
Having done so, I have reached  the same  conclusions as those of the investigator  and for 
the same  reasons. 
Im extremely sorry to hear of whats happened  to Mr M. I understand his point of view that 
this was a cruel scam, and that this formed part of a wider series of events that caused him 
Ref: DRN23655682significant distress. I can understand  entirely why he feels  so strongly  that his money  should  
be returned to him, and why he does not accept what the investigator said.  However,  for me 
to say Bank  of Scotland is liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that the bank 
could and should have acted to prevent  the loss, or that it failed to meet  its obligations in 
some other way.
So I need to first consider what Bank  of Scotland was obliged  to do here.  In broad terms, the 
starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that 
a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. And I have taken  that into account when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer.
Regulated firms like Bank  of Scotland are also required to conduct  their business 
with due skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers (Principle  6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations (BBA) February 
2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions   that could involve fraud  or be the result of a scam 
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes  October 2017 
Protecting customers from financial harm  as a result of fraud  or financial  abuse  
Code of practice, which a number of banks and trade associations were involved in 
the development of); and,
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to 
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether Bank of Scotland acted fairly  and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr M when  he transferred £1,500  and withdrew £350 in cash from his account,  
or whether it should have done  more than it did. 
Ref: DRN23655683I dont consider Bank of Scotland has any responsibility for the cash  Mr M gave  to the 
fraudster that hed borrowed from a friend - because that doesnt relate to Mr Ms banking  
relationship with Bank of Scotland.
Mr M has accepted he authorised the £1,500 transfer and the £350  cash  withdrawal himself. 
Bank of Scotland had an obligation  to follow his instructions. 
But as Ive noted above, there are some  situations  in which  it should  reasonably  have had a 
closer look at the circumstances surrounding  these transactions. I consider that as a matter 
of good practice  Bank of Scotland shouldve been  on the lookout for unusual  and out of 
character transactions.
So, Ive first thought  about whether the transfer and the cash withdrawal made by Mr M were 
out of character and unusual.  To decide  this, Ive reviewed the typical pattern of Mr Ms 
account usage, by reviewing his account  history  in the six months prior to the scam.
This is always  a finely balanced  matter, and Bank  of Scotland has a difficult balance to strike 
in how it configures its systems  to detect unusual activity or activity  that might otherwise 
indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud.
On balance, I cant fairly say that either  transaction  was so unusual  or suspicious in 
comparison to Mr Ms normal  account  activity that it ought to have alerted Bank of Scotland  
that Mr M was at risk of financial harm.
Mr M had made several other (legitimate) withdrawals in the six months before the scam, 
including several  payments  in the £500  to £1,000 range. So the payment of £1,500 and the 
later cash  withdrawal of £350  simply dont  look particularly  unusual or out of character to me 
 these looked much like his typical account usage.
As a result, I dont think Bank of Scotland was wrong to allow Mr M to make these 
transactions without  questioning him about them. There wasnt enough  here for me to think 
Bank of Scotland should have suspected  Mr M might be about to fall victim  to a fraud.
Ive thought also about the actions Bank of Scotland took after Mr M made  it aware of what  
had happened. The bank  that received the £1,500 payment has explained  that by the time 
the scam  was reported there  was little left in that account, and no funds to return  to Mr M. 
Given that over a month had elapsed this is unsurprising as fraudsters will often move 
money on quickly, and I dont find Bank of Scotland is liable  here.
In relation to the £350 cash  withdrawal,  as Mr M straightaway passed this money on, there 
could have been no opportunity for Bank of Scotland to try and recover  that money even 
after Mr M had made the bank aware of what had happened.
So, having  considered everything, Im not going  to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for Mr M, but I cant fairly say that Bank  of Scotland is 
responsible for what happened and neither do I think  I can fairly say Bank  of Scotland  is 
liable to reimburse him with the money he unfortunately lost to the fraudster. 
I think the £50.00  that Bank  of Scotland has already paid Mr M for its handling of the 
reported scam is fair. The main cause of the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr M 
Ref: DRN23655684here were the actions  of the fraudsters  who tricked him. As Ive said above, I simply dont 
think Bank of Scotland could reasonably have prevented this. So I do not hold it responsible 
for the distress and inconvenience due to the scam itself, and I dont require it to do more 
here.
I am very sorry  that to hear about  what happened to Mr M and that he has lost out as a 
result. And I appreciate  this is a lot of money for him to have lost and the implications  it has 
had for Mr M. But in all of the circumstances, I cant fairly say Bank  of Scotland could 
reasonably have prevented what happened. So it wouldnt be fair for me to require Bank of 
Scotland to refund  Mr M.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2021.
Stephen Dickie
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2365568