K820x#14Complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Santander UK Plc allowed a third-party to access a joint account he 
held with his later mother.
Background
Mr C had a joint account with his mother, Mrs C. Mrs C had been  diagnosed with dementia 
and so a Lasting Power of Attorney  (LPA) was registered. This gave Mr C the authority to 
make financial  decisions on her behalf.  Mr C says that he presented  the LPA in branch and 
asked for it to be registered  but was told it was unnecessary. As he had a joint account 
with Mrs C, he already had the authority  to make payments out of the account and being 
appointed as Mrs Cs attorney  didnt change this.
In March 2019, Mrs Cs grandson (Mr Cs son) called Santander and said he was speaking 
on Mrs Cs behalf. Mrs C spoke to a representative  of Santander and said she gave her 
grandson permission to do so. Her grandson said that he was concerned  about  the way Mr 
C had been managing the account and wanted an appointment  in branch to discuss this.
A new account was set up in Mrs Cs name,  but the contact details that were connected to 
the account were  for the grandson, not for Mrs C. Mr C became aware of this when  he was 
locked out of the online banking facility for his joint account with Mrs C. He notified  
Santander immediately  and it blocked the account while  an investigation was conducted. 
The changes that had been made were reversed and Mr C was able to access  the account 
once again.
Mr C says that Santander gave his son access to information about  transactions on the joint 
account that would otherwise have remained private. Based on the information he saw, he 
concluded that the account was not being managed in Mrs Cs best interests. He began  
legal proceedings in the court of protection. These resulted in the LPA being revoked and a 
solicitor was appointed as Mrs Cs representative.  Mr C hasnt shared the judgment of the 
court with us, but he says that it found hed acted  in Mrs Cs best interests.
Sadly, Mrs C passed away in April 2020. The cost of these legal proceedings was deducted 
from her estate. Mr C says that, if Santander  had prevented his son from seeing the history 
of the account,  these  costs would not have been  incurred. As a result,  he has experienced a 
very significant financial loss and he thinks Santander should compensate  him.
His complaint was looked at by an investigator who didnt  uphold it. The investigator said 
that, as Mrs C was a joint account holder,  she was entitled to give instructions in relation to 
the account and Santander  hadnt done anything wrong in carrying  them out. Overall,  the 
investigator didnt  find that Santander had done  anything wrong.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said that hed warned Santander  that 
there was a risk of Mrs C being taken advantage of and its staff ought to have guarded  
against this risk. He also said that, when he attempted  to register the LPA, Santander should 
have advised  him that continuing to operate a joint account with Mrs C entailed the risk of 
someone taking advantage  of her.
As Mr C disagreed with the investigators opinion,  the complaint has been passed to me to 
come to a final decision.
Ref: DRN22506242Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
The account  was jointly held between Mr C and Mrs C. The terms of the account are 
unambiguous that this means that either  account  holder can give instructions in connection 
with the account.  Santander wasnt required to ensure that both account holders consented 
before allowing any transactions on the account  to go ahead. 
Mr C had been appointed as an attorney under an LPA. This gave him a general authority to 
make financial  decisions on behalf of Mrs C. But it didnt  restrict Mrs Cs ability to give 
instructions in relation to the account.
The LPA said that Mrs C would still need  to consent to financial decisions taken on her 
behalf unless  shed lost mental capacity. That meant  that shed still be able to give 
instructions in relation to the account until that point. She was entitled to the manage  the 
account and Santander wouldnt have had any justification for withholding information about 
it from her or refusing to carry out her instructions. And of course, she was free to share  
information about the account with her grandson  if she chose to do so.
I wouldnt have expected Santander  to have proactively suggested  that Mr C change the 
way the joint account was set up to minimise risk. A decision  like that would  require the 
agreement of both account holders and it wouldnt have been appropriate for it to be made 
without involving Mrs C.
Im also unpersuaded  that Mrs Cs grandson  accessing the account history was necessary 
for legal proceedings to commence. Ive listened to a recording of his phone  call with 
Santander and its clear that he had concerns about  the way Mr C was using  the account, 
even though he hadnt been able to access any information about the use of the account by 
that point. And Mr C would likely have been required to disclose  that information anyway 
once proceedings began.
I do sympathise with what Mr C has been through and he understandably  feels very strongly 
about this complaint. But having considered the case very carefully,  I dont find that 
Santander has done anything wrong  here.  
Final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2250624