K821x#15the complaint
Mr A says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on him. 
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mr A says this meant he was unable 
to use internet banking,  and that when he checked  his account on an ATM it gave him the 
incorrect balance. This meant  he thought he had more money  in his account than he actually 
did. Mr A withdrew this money, causing  his account to become overdrawn and leading  to 
charges on his account and a negative impact  on his credit file.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. He thought TSB should  pay £150 for the trouble 
and upset caused to Mr A. But he also felt that TSB had acted fairly in trying  to deal with the 
outstanding debt on Mr As account   by offering to set up a repayment plan, and refunding 
all the charges and debit  interest that had been  charged to Mr As account. And he didnt 
think TSB had done anything wrong in updating Mr As credit file to reflect that there was an 
outstanding debt. 
TSB accepted this, and paid the £150 into Mr As account to reduce his outstanding balance.  
But Mr A didnt think this was enough  compensation, he thought  he should be compensated 
£500 for every day the issue was not resolved. He also thought  TSB should  amend his credit 
file as he felt it was their fault that his account  was overdrawn. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think £150 compensation is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
I appreciate that TSBs IT issues may have meant that Mr A was unsure  about the available 
balance of his account. But the fact remains that he has had the benefit of the money he 
withdrew, so it is only fair that he should  repay this money to TSB.  And from looking at TSBs 
notes of their conversations with Mr A I can see that TSB offered several times to set up a 
repayment plan to help Mr A repay  the overdrawn balance. TSB also refunded  all of the 
overdraft charges, returned item fees, and debit interest that was charged to Mr As account. 
TSB seems to have  made every effort to help Mr A with getting his account  back  in order,  
but Mr A has been unwilling to come to an arrangement or take steps to try to repay  the 
balance. So with this in mind, I dont think it was unreasonable  for TSB to notify the credit 
reference agencies  of the outstanding debt on the account.
Mr A says he wants fair compensation for the worry and frustration caused to him and his 
family  and I can understand his strength of feeling. But taking  everything  into account, I 
think the compensation the adjudicator has already recommended   and TSB has agreed to 
 is a fair amount for this. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN29372812For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr As complaint.
TSB Bank plc should put things right by paying Mr A £150. I understand TSB Bank Plc has 
already paid this £150 into Mr As account, so I dont think  it needs to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2937281