K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the settlement Covea Insurance plc offered to him after he made a 
claim on his home insurance policy.
background
In June 2018 someone tried to break in to Mr Ds home.  As a result the front door was 
damaged, so Mr D made a claim on his home insurance policy.  
He provided an estimate to have the door replaced  for around £2,850. Coveas supplier 
carried out a desktop assessment and then visited  the property. From this it confirmed the 
door could  be repaired  instead of replaced and said this would be relatively easy. It would 
cost £519.60.  
Mr Ds supplier had said a repair couldnt be done, and it had advised Mr D a replacement 
door would be best. So Mr D didnt want the repairs carried out. To settle the claim Covea  
sent him £419.60  (the cost of the repairs minus the excess). However Mr D didnt accept 
this, and returned the money. Mr D complained and said he wanted Covea to cover the cost 
of replacing the door, instead  of trying to repair it. 
An investigator at our service considered Mr Ds complaint and said Coveas  offer of a repair  
was in line with the terms of the policy. He highlighted  that we expect repairs to be long 
lasting and effective,  and because the repairs Covea was saying it could carry out came with 
a five year guarantee, he thought the offer of a repair was fair and reasonable in these  
circumstances. Mr D didnt agree and said Covea hadnt clearly explained the repairs  
previously. So the case has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
The terms of Mr Ds policy says a claim will be settled by arranging  for a repair or reinstating 
the building , and this will be at our option .  And  so its up to Covea to decide whether it 
repairs or reinstates  damage to the property.
Coveas supplier has provided Mr D and us with a detailed  breakdown  of the repair.  Whilst I 
accept that Mr Ds supplier advised  that a replacement door is needed,  Covea has 
contractors who are experienced  at dealing with this sort of damage.  They are confident the 
door can be repaired and I think its reasonable to give them the opportunity to do so.
I understand it might preferable to Mr D to replace the door, but that doesnt mean that 
Covea cant carry out an effective repair.  So I think that Mr D should  give Covea the 
opportunity to repair the door. And if Mr D isnt satisfied with this repair for a particular 
reason, then he can complain to Covea. 
Covea has also offered to give Mr D £419.60  in cash so he can arrange his own repairs.     
Mr D has now returned this money. Considering a full repair is being offered, I think this cash  
settlement figure is a reasonable alternative  if Mr D doesnt want the repair done by Coveas 
contractor.
Ref: DRN26678352my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
If Mr D would like the cash settlement Covea Insurance plc previously offered him or to 
arrange the repairs that were offered, he should  get in touch  with it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Kinjal Vadgama
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2667835