K821x#15complaint
Mrs H and Mr C complain that Santander  UK Plc have declined their request to extend the 
term of their interest-only mortgage unfairly.
background
Mrs H and Mr C have an interest-only mortgage with Santander that reached the end of its 
term in May 2018. The balance  owed  is just over £7,000. When  the term ended, 
Mrs H and Mr C applied to extend the term until Mrs H would turn 75, in 2022. They  said that 
whilst they do have  savings now that they could use to repay the balance,  they wanted to 
keep them in place  in case they needed them for things such as funeral costs.
Santander declined  the application.  They  said that their lending policy only allows borrowing 
until the oldest  borrower  named on the mortgage  is aged 75. Mr C turned 75 in 2018. So 
they wouldnt extend the term because  of this. They were also aware Mrs H and Mr C had 
the means to repay the balance when it fell due. They  offered to discuss an arrangement  to 
make the repayments  to the mortgage  with Mrs H and Mr C, but said this had to be done 
over the phone.
Mrs H and Mr C complained. They  felt that Santanders lending  policy  was discriminatory, 
and they were being treated differently because of their age. They were also unhappy that 
Santander had kept calling them despite them being aware that both Mrs H and Mr C are 
deaf, and so find telephone communication  difficult. They were also distressed by the field 
agents Santander sent to their home to discuss things even after theyd made their 
complaint.
Santander didnt  uphold the complaint, although  they did apologise for continuing with 
collections activity after theyd complained. They said that they were happy  to arrange a time 
to call Mrs H and Mr C when they had a suitable interpreter or aid available to help them.
Mrs H and Mr C brought  their complaint to our service. Our investigator looked  into things, 
and explained  that she didnt think Santander had declined the request for a term extension 
unfairly. She did however ask Santander to pay Mrs H and Mr C £150 to recognise the 
trouble and upset  theyd  caused by calling them and instructing a field agent. Santander 
accepted the investigators opinion, but Mrs H and Mr C didnt  so the complaints been 
passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Mrs H first took this mortgage out in 2007, shes  made variations to the amount 
borrowed and the term over the years,  although the mortgage has always been interest-only.  
Mr C was added to the mortgage in 2010.  The latest  change to the mortgage was in 2015, 
when they successfully applied for a new fixed interest rate. The conversion  offer clearly 
states this was an interest-only  mortgage,  with a term of three  years. The fixed  interest rate 
was in place for two years. So whilst I appreciate Mrs H and Mr C had a longer  mortgage 
term in the past,  the latest offer they accepted and agreed to clearly showed the mortgage 
would end in 2018. For this reason, I think it was reasonable for Santander to expect them  to 
repay the mortgage in 2018.
Ref: DRN29359632However, Id also expect Santander  to consider Mrs H and Mr Cs individual  circumstances, 
and the reasons for their request to extend the mortgage term, before making a decision 
about whether  or not to allow the extension. The rules set by the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)   do allow the bank to consider extending the term of the mortgage 
on an interest-only basis, if it would  be in Mrs H and Mr Cs best interests. 
Santander said that their lending  criteria wont allow for mortgage lending  to borrowers over 
the age of 75. So as Mr C is already over the age of 75, they cant  agree to an extension.  Im 
not satisfied that applying  this policy strictly to Mrs H and Mr Cs mortgage would be fair 
here. However, Santander have also said given the size of the balance  remaining, theyre  
willing to work with Mrs H and Mr C to agree an overpayment proposal if theyre unable to 
pay the full balance now.
Over the life of the mortgage,  Mrs H and Mr C have  been able to make  overpayments  to 
reduce the balance. As a result, theres just over £7,000 left to pay. Mrs H has confirmed 
they do have enough to pay for this in savings, but would prefer not to have to use this 
money, as it would leave  them with little left for things  such  as funeral  costs should anything  
happen. 
I can appreciate why Mrs H and Mr C feel this way  especially if theyve built up these 
savings over time. But considering everything, Im not persuaded extending  the term on an 
interest-only basis until 2022 would be in their best interests. Mrs H and Mr C havent  got 
another repayment plan that they could realise  in 2022, they would still be relying on their 
savings to repay the mortgage. So whilst I appreciate they may have accumulated slightly  
more in savings  over that time, they wont be in a better position to repay  the balance  by any 
other means. In the meantime, theyd continue  to pay interest  to Santander,  and the interest 
they would  pay would  be more than theyd  earn by keeping the money in their savings.  
And its possible their health  could  start to deteriorate during that time  which  could make 
managing the mortgage more difficult.  
Santander have  said theyre willing to agree a plan with Mrs H and Mr C to repay the 
outstanding balance based on what would be affordable for them now  rather than 
expecting them to use all their savings  to clear the balance immediately. These 
conversations havent got any further as this complaint was raised. But I do think  this is a fair 
and reasonable solution  to the problem here,  providing that Santander can do this in a way 
that meets Mrs H and Mr Cs communication needs. 
I understand Santander would rather things were discussed over the phone,  and they are 
going to need to gather information from Mrs H and Mr C about their circumstances. But I 
think they should be able to find a way to do this by making reasonable adjustments,  and 
without having  to call Mrs H and Mr C directly,  as this is clearly difficult  and distressing for 
them. Santander should offer to communicate with Mrs H and Mr C by alternative methods 
such as a face-to-face meeting, or through  an aid or interpreter for example. It will then be 
for Mrs H and Mr C to decide what meets their needs best.
Mrs H and Mr C have also complained about  the calls,  letters  and field agent  visit theyve 
received from Santander, as theyd made  them aware of their hearing problems. The 
collections activity also continued  after theyd  made  their complaint. The bank have 
apologised for this, and agreed with the investigators recommendation to pay 
Mrs H and Mr C £150 for the trouble and upset  theyve caused. I think this is a fair amount of 
compensation for Santander to pay given  the circumstances.  It also doesnt seem 
Ref: DRN29359633Mrs H and Mr C have been  charged  for the field agent visit, which I think is right in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold  this complaint in part and 
instruct Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs H and Mr C £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
theyve caused.
Santander UK Plc also need to engage with Mrs H and Mr C to agree a repayment  plan to 
recover the outstanding balance. They must do this in a way that meets Mrs H and Mr Cs 
communication needs, and not directly  by phone.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 October  2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2935963