complaint
Ms B and Mr S complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has badly
managed their claim following an escape  of water at their home.
Ms B and Mr S are joint policy holders, however for ease of reading I have referred  only to 
Ms B when referencing the complainant.
background
Ms B had a home insurance policy underwritten by RSA. In March  2018 frozen water in a 
pipe in the loft of her house  caused  the pipe to burst. Water leaked  into the rest of the 
building affecting  12 rooms. She made a claim on her home insurance.
Due to the extent of the damage, RSA offered Ms B alternative accommodation  to stay in 
while repair work was carried out. Ms B declined the offer due to owning a cat and having
caring responsibilities  for a neighbour. Instead Ms B moved into a part of the house  that had
not been affected by the leak. RSA gave her £3000 so that temporary kitchen facilities  could
be set up in that part of the house.
RSA originally estimated  the work  would be completed by August 2018.  However  there were
a number of delays. During the course  of the work asbestos was discovered and had to be
cleared before the drying  process  could  begin.  This meant the drying process wasnt
complete until July. There were also a couple of occasions when work had to stop due to
additional approval being needed due to the scale of the work required. Further,  some work
had to be re-done after Ms B complained of poor workmanship. At the beginning of January
2019 there was a second leak from a shower  which meant further drying  was needed.
By January 2019 the work had still not been  completed. Ms B complained  to RSA. She said 
therehad been  a number  of avoidable  delays  caused by RSA and its agents. She said they 
had
only completed eight  days of work since she opened  the claim 10 months  ago. She also said
communication had been poor and workmen had caused a lot of mess and dust in the house
which had got into the area she was living in. Further, some  of her furniture and valuable
books had been damaged  by the water and had developed mould due to not being removed
from the property straight away. Ms B requested a project  manager  to oversee the work to
completion, in order  to avoid further delays.
RSA partially upheld her complaint. It said it recognised there had been some avoidable
delays and agreed it could have provided better customer service.  However  it said some
delays were unavoidable such as the discovery of asbestos  and those caused  by Ms Bs
request for a specific  type of plaster to be used  on the walls. It said its agents original
completion date of August 2018 was only ever an estimate and its not possible to give a
definite date. It also said it had already provided  £3000 towards  a temporary kitchen.  And
had paid £1000 towards hotel costs  for Ms B and her family to stay in over Christmas as a
gesture of goodwill. Further it said it was in the process of assessing her claims for contents
and may be able to offer a disturbance allowance. Finally it confirmed that a project manager
had been put in place  to help the repairs run more smoothly. RSA offered  £500
compensation to make  up for the avoidable delays and poor service.
Ms B wasnt happy with RSAs response. She said the delays had been unacceptable and
she had checked  the original completion  date a number of times with the agent.  She
Ref: DRN25843412explained the stress caused by the delays had made an existing illness worse that had led to
her collapsing at work. She has subsequently  had to give up her job. She brought  her
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended RSA pay an additional £500
compensation on top of the £500  already offered. He said that there were a number of
delays that could have been  avoided. This had meant Ms B has had to remain in a limited
part of her home for a longer period than necessary, which  had caused her significant
distress and inconvenience.
RSA disagreed with our investigators opinion. It said the delays  were  largely caused by the
discovery of asbestos  and the size of the affected  area of the property. It asked for the
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
In my provisional decision I said:
At the point Ms Bs complaint came  to this service, the claim was still ongoing. RSA has said
it is considering claims for damage to contents  and disturbance allowance.  I have only
considered concerns raised up until RSAs final response was issued on 21 January 2019.
As these  issues were still ongoing  at the point  of the final response,  I have not considered
them as part of my assessment.  Should Ms B have cause for any future complaint about
progress of the claim after 21 January, these issues may form part of that.
RSA have said that although  there have been delays to the completion of the repair work,
most of these were  not caused by it. In its response  to our investigator  RSA said it agreed  it
caused around two months of delays but nothing more than this. It therefore feels the £500
already offered is sufficient to compensate for this.
In coming to my decision, I have considered which of the delays could  have been  avoided by
RSA. I have then considered the impact these  delays  have  had on Ms B.
I can see that since the claim was raised, there have been a couple  of unforeseen issues
that have caused it to progress more slowly than originally expected. For example the
discovery of asbestos.  And the time it took to obtain  two quotes for the re-wiring of the 
electrics. I can also see that Ms B has delayed the claim herself by requesting a specific  type
of plaster for the re-plastering of the walls.
However from the comprehensive  timelines provided by Ms B, I think a lot of the delays
could have been avoided by RSA.  Although  the discovery of asbestos would mean  the
drying of the property  would be delayed, the time between the discovery  of the issue and the
property being  declared free of asbestos  was three months. This is substantially longer than
would reasonably be expected. From what Ive seen  this is largely  due to a delay in
providing the report declaring  the house  asbestos free. This is the responsibility  of RSA and
its agents so I agree  more could have been done  to reduce this delay.
Further there were two occasions where work had to stop shortly after it begun as approval
was needed due to the scale  of the work required. On one occasion,  this caused a delay of
over a month. Considering the size of the property and the extent of the damage,  I think the
need for approval could have been  foreseen and sought by RSA and its agents in advance.
This would have avoided these delays  and work  would not have been disrupted once
Ref: DRN25843413started.
RSA has accepted the loss adjuster that was originally appointed was slow to arrange
necessary site visits and meetings. This caused further avoidable  delays on at least two
occasions. On top of this there  was work  completed  that had to be re-done as it was done
poorly by RSAs agents. RSA also accept this.
Finally there was a second leak at the beginning of January that meant  further drying was
necessary. Ms B says this was due to the shower pipe not being  capped off by RSAs
workmen. So again, this delay was caused by RSA and its agents.
Based on this assessment I have concluded  that around five months of additional delays
could have been avoided if RSA had managed  the claim better. This is significant within a
period of ten months. RSA has said it only accepts  two months of delays were unavoidable.
However the case file RSA provided includes emails between  RSA and its agents where it
accepts four months  of delays could have  been  avoided. I agree this is a more accurate
estimate.
I have also considered the impact these delays have  had on Ms B in order to assess
whether the £500 compensation is sufficient to make up for the delays. Ms B accepts it was
her decision  to turn down  alternative accommodation in favour  of remaining in a limited
section of her home. However at that stage she expected the work to take around four
months to complete.  In reality it has already taken more than double this and at the point of
RSAs final response  to her complaint, there was no estimated end date. I appreciate RSA
paid £3000 to ensure  temporary kitchen facilities were available.  However  had Ms B known
how long the repairs would take,  she may have chosen to move to alternative
accommodation which would have cost RSA substantially more.
Although the living arrangements  would be sufficient on a temporary  basis,  Ms B has
explained the stress shes experienced by the amount  of time she has had to remain in the
temporary arrangement. Made worse by the fact she doesnt  know how much longer this will
last. Further there has been  a lot of dust from the work taking place that has got into the area
she is living in. RSA put up a partition to prevent dust getting in but this was only done  in
December 2018   nine months into the claim.
Ms B has also explained that she has suffered ill health which  has led to her collapsing at
work and eventually having to give up her job. She feels the stress caused by the bad
handling of the claim  and her living conditions have caused her ill health to worsen.
Having considered the progress of Ms Bs claim and the necessary repair work, I agree that
RSA caused significant delays that could have been  avoided. Further, I think the impact of
these delays and the fact RSA have been  unable  to provide reliable estimates for completion
of the work has caused Ms B significant  distress  and inconvenience. Staying in a limited
area of her home for an extended period of time while significant work is carried out would
be distressing. Ms B also says that the stress caused an existing health condition to worsen.
Whilst its not possible to attribute  all of Ms Bs worsening health to the delays caused by
RSA, Im satisfied that it would have had had an effect. Having  to give up her job would
mean she was spending  more time in the house  which would have increased the stress and
inconvenience.
I can see RSA have  already paid £1000 towards  Ms Bs arrangements  for Christmas and I
agree that was the right thing to do. It has also offered £500  compensation. However  I dont
Ref: DRN25843414think this is sufficient to make up for the distress  and inconvenience. I am therefore minded
to require RSA to pay Ms B an additional £500 compensation on top of the £500  already
offered to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused.
response to my provisional  decision
Ms B had nothing further to add in response to my provisional decision.
RSA didnt agree with the increase in compensation. It said it understands Ms B may have  
made a different decision about alternative  accommodation in retrospect; however it wasnt  
possible to foresee the length of time it would take at that point. It also said there  is likely  to 
be more disruption  caused  by choosing  to stay in the house while repairs are carried out but 
it tried to keep it to a minimum.  Finally  RSA didnt agree that there  is any evidence that the 
claim impacted on Ms Bs health.
my findings 
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA says that Ms B would have  experienced more disruption because of her decision to 
stay at the property  while  repairs were carried  out rather  than moving to alternative  
accommodation. It further says it is easier  to see in retrospect that this would have been a 
better option now she knows how long it would take.  I have  considered this, however it 
doesnt change  my position. 
I concluded in my provisional decision  that its likely RSA caused around five months of 
additional delays  in a ten month period. RSA accepts this in its response.  Therefore the 
reason Ms B was in her property with repairs going on for longer than foreseen was due to 
RSA. Without the avoidable delays she would have had to put up with this position for a 
much shorter period. I therefore dont agree its relevant Ms B decided  to stay in her 
property. If she had gone into alternative  accomodation she still would have had about  five 
months delay.  
Further RSA says that it sought  to minimise  disruption when issues were  raised  with it. But 
Ive not seen any evidence that this was the case. For example Ms B has explained that dust 
was getting into her living area throughout the repairs. And this was only rectified by the 
installation of a partition,  nine months after repair work started.
Finally RSA says that there is no evidence to link Ms Bs worsening health to its handling of 
the claim.  I agree that I cannot be certain that the impact of the claim made her condition 
worse. However I consider what is most  likely. I know  that Ms B had an ongoing  medical 
condition. I also know that this worsened during the time of the claim leading to her giving up 
work. I am also satisfied  that the handling of the claim and problems with repairs would have 
caused Ms B significant stress. Being  exposed  to stress while  managing an ongoing health 
condition, is likely to have  an impact  on the condition. I therefore  think  it is likely Ms Bs 
health was affected in some way by the stress caused  by the claim.
However, even without taking Ms Bs health  into account, I still dont agree RSA has done  
enough to make up for the distress  and inconvenience caused  with its original offer of £500 
compensation. 
Ref: DRN25843415After considering RSAs  comments, I see no reason to depart from the position  outlined in 
my provisional decision. I therefore require RSA to pay Ms B a total of £1,000 compensation 
to include the £500 already offered.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to pay Ms B a total 
of £1000 compensation to make up for the distress  and inconvenience caused.  This should 
be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Ms B has accepted my final decision.  If Royal  & 
Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount 
from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2584341