K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the advice Lloyds Bank PLC gave him regarding two separate payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies it sold him. 
background
Very briefly, Mr S took out PPI with his credit card in 2000 and with a loan the following year 
 they both covered him for disability and unemployment. He said he spoke to Lloyds about 
trying to claim unemployment benefit  on the policies in 2002  after his business  suffered a 
downturn in trading. 
In 2018, after years of pursuing complaints against  Lloyds for telling  him he couldnt claim,  
Lloyds paid him compensation on a goodwill basis equivalent to the maximum benefit  
payable under the policies, less the compensation hed already received for them having 
been mis-sold. It didnt  add interest to those amounts.  
Unhappy with Lloyds  offer,  Mr S complained to us. Essentially,  he wanted interest to be 
added to the amounts at 8%, plus additional compensation for subsequent loans he said he 
took out as a result of his claims not having  been  paid, and a payment in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience hed suffered.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld in part. He found  that Mr S claims 
would likely  have been paid had he made them  in 2002 and that the loans he took just after 
that, and in 2003, would have been  smaller as a result. He asked Lloyds to add interest to 
the amounts it had paid and to compensate Mr S for his subsequent loans. The adjudicator 
didnt, however, ask Lloyds to pay additional compensation for distress and inconvenience  
as he felt the £1,400 it had already paid in total was sufficient.    
As the parties didnt accept the adjudicators  findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Lloyds should do more to put things right for Mr S. Ill 
explain why.
Lloyds disputes  that Mr S was unemployed as defined by the policy  terms and that no 
benefits were payable which is why, when it paid compensation  equal to the value of the 
claims, it did so on a goodwill basis. Ive carefully  considered the evidence Lloyds has 
pointed to in support of its view. But, understandably, theres nothing to show for certain 
what Mr S work situation was at the time.  
I dont believe Mr S should be treated less favourably because  of the significant amount of 
time thats  passed,  as hes not responsible for the delay. Hes given an account of how he 
was working in 2002 thats been  broadly  consistent over a considerable period of time. I find 
no reason to substantially doubt what hes said.   
Ref: DRN22100582I also note, for example,  that the credit card PPI terms required that Mr S have no paid 
work to be able to claim unemployment  benefits, work was defined as any paid work of at 
least 16 hours a week. Although Mr S accepts he had a second job, it seems  that was 
irregular in nature and wasnt generating a significant income. Theres little to suggest his 
second job involved him working 16 hours or more a week at the time. In any event,  hes 
suggested he stopped doing his second job around  the time of his attempted  claims. So Im 
not satisfied this meant he wasnt unemployed for the purpose of claiming benefits. 
Given that I believe on balance the claims were  payable,  it follows that Lloyds is responsible  
for the direct and foreseeable consequences  of them  not being paid when they were due. 
That includes the addition  of simple interest, at the rate of 8% a year,  to the benefit  
payments to reflect the fact that Mr S was deprived of that money. I acknowledge that, as 
Mr S says,  he could have invested  the money in shares but I believe the rate Im awarding 
adequately covers the range of opportunities that might have been available to him at the 
time. 
On the available evidence, Im also satisfied  that the loans Mr S took out in 2002 and 2003  
were bigger  than theyd  have been  had Lloyds treated him fairly  when  he tried to make his 
claims. So it also follows that Lloyds should  compensate Mr S for the financial loss he 
suffered as a result  of having to make larger loan repayments than he would  otherwise  have  
done, and for being deprived of the amounts he overpaid too.
Mr S says Lloyds should also pay back some  of the money he borrowed in 2003 as he could 
have done other things  with it, such as invested it, and made a return. I dont agree that 
Lloyds owes him for that. I say that because the money he borrowed was his to use as 
necessary (including  to consolidate existing debt). While its the case  that he had to borrow  
more than he would have done had Lloyds correctly advised him in 2002, I consider it 
sufficient that Lloyds compensates him for the cost of borrowing that extra  amount  in terms 
of any fees and charges, loan interest and interest on the extra he overpaid  rather than for 
the amount itself.
Regarding the trouble Mr S has been put to over the years, and the distress  hes been 
caused, I believe the substantial sums Lloyds has already offered are fair. I dont consider 
that Lloyds needs to pay any more.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Pay interest on both sets of Mr S benefit  payments,  less the respective amounts he 
received as mis-sale compensation, at the simple rate of 8% per year;  and
Work  out and pay Mr S the difference between what he paid for the loans he took out 
in 2002 and 2003 (including in extra interest  and charges) and what hed have paid 
had the loan amounts been smaller by the total benefit payments (plus  interest)  for 
both policies; and
Pay interest on Mr S loan overpayments calculated at the simple  rate of 8% a year. 
Ref: DRN22100583Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2210058