complaint
Mr Ss complaint is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) failed to protect him from a scam  
from his account, and wont refund him.
background
On 4 April 2018,  Mr S was the victim of an email interception scam. He thought he was 
paying decorators from his Barclays online account,  but it turned  out the invoice hed been 
sent had been intercepted and tampered  with by scammers, which  meant that once paid the 
money didnt go to the decorators,  as intended,  but was diverted into an account used by the 
scammers.
Mr S made the £4,300  payment on the evening of 4 April, and discovered the following day 
what had happened. By the end of the afternoon of 5 April, Barclays had placed a block on 
his account, and also the account hed paid the money into  which was also held with it.
Barclays then tried to get Mr Ss money back, but almost all of it had already been withdrawn 
from the beneficiary account  even before Mr Ss first call.
Mr S asked  Barclays to refund him the full £4,300  hes lost, saying he didnt think it had 
adequately protected him. But Barclays explained that it didnt think it could  have done  
anything else to have avoided the scam,  and that it followed all its usual procedures.
Mr S didnt  agree, so brought his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator considered all the evidence carefully, and concluded that Barclays couldnt  
have prevented the fraud taking place,  and that it hadnt failed to do anything it should have 
been expected to. He did, however, agree that had Barclays logged the scam slightly  earlier  
in the day on 5 April 2018, then the final £50 taken out of the beneficiary  account might have 
been saved.
So he upheld the complaint asking  Barclays to refund the £50, together with £200  for the 
worry and inconvenience  Mr S had gone  through.
Barclays accepted  this resolution, but Mr S remained  concerned  that it should have done 
more. In particular, he said it didnt have  a warning on its website of this specific type of 
scam. Which he felt was contrary to industry guidelines. So he asked for an ombudsmans  
review.
K820x#14
Ref: DRN2516603my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator  that Barclays shouldnt  be held 
responsible for the whole of the fraud amount,  but that it could have saved £50 being taken. I 
also think the £200 compensation recommended is fair and sufficient. Im not going to ask it 
to pay Mr S any more than this.
I understand this decision will be disappointing  for Mr S. Hes been the victim  of a cruel and 
clever scam, and Im genuinely  sorry for that. But Id like to explain why I dont think it would 
be fair for me to hold Barclays responsible for the bulk of his loss.
Our Investigator correctly explained  the Payment Services Regulations  2017  to Mr S, saying 
that generally a customer is held liable for transactions that are authorised,  and banks for 
those that arent. And albeit Mr S unwittingly  made  his payment to the wrong payee, I still 
think the payment  itself was authorised. So under  the PSRs, Im satisfied  Barclays  isnt 
required to refund him.
On the matter  of prevention, Mr S argues that a large and unusual  payment should require 
extra checks  to ensure  its legitimacy. But having looked at his account activity in the weeks 
prior to the fraud taking  place, this wasnt the only large sum paid out. Not surprisingly, given 
that he was moving into a new house,  and making related expenditure. So I dont think  its 
fair to say that Barclays missed any red flags  here.
I also cant say that the money was lost because  Barclays failed to act quickly  enough. We 
know that all but the final £50 was gone  from the beneficiary account  by the following 
morning, and before Mr S or Barclays  knew what had happened.
Further, Barclays does  have in place its own fraud prevention systems, and triggers.  I cant 
say what these are, as this is sensitive information for obvious reasons. I dont know  what  
they are. But due to the changing nature of these  systems to reflect changing fraud  patterns 
and behaviour, its very difficult to say that Barclays was insufficient. In addition,  were not a 
regulator, and cant tell Barclays to change its systems. This would be a matter for the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA).
Mr S also argued that Barclays should have matched up the beneficiary  account name,  as 
well as the account number and sort code, with the name he thought he was paying when he 
made his payment. And that in doing so it would have uncovered the fraud. But, as weve 
already explained in our earlier view, its not a requirement for banks to match account 
names. The matches it looks at are the sort codes and account numbers. So I cant  say 
Barclays made a mistake,  or failed  to take preventative action, here either.
In addition,  Mr S has suggested Barclays should have made  him, and other  customers, 
aware of email interception scams, and that it failed to do so on its website. Ive thought
about this point, and agree that ideally  every possible type of scam could be ascertained  and 
made known  to customers  in advance as a preventative  measure. But I dont think this is 
pragmatic or reasonable. And I cant also be sure that it would have changed the outcome 
here. Mr S had no reason not to believe the email and invoice hed been sent were genuine. 
No more so than any other communications he might receive seeking payment  around the 
same time  all of which were genuine. Im satisfied that he was expecting an invoice; and
2
Ref: DRN2516603K821x#15that he received an invoice that looked correct during  the course of ongoing 
communications with his decorators; and that he paid it. So Im not persuaded that a 
warning on Barclays website would  have changed  the outcome here.
Once again, Im sorry to hear whats happened  to Mr S. This is a cruel scam, which  he
clearly didnt expect, and hes unfairly out of pocket. But I cant say that this happened due 
to any fault or omission on the part of Barclay such that it should be responsible  for his 
loss.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. To resolve  matters,  Im asking
Barclays Bank UK PLC to:-
    Pay £50 to Mr S in respect  of the scam payment  (with 8% interest simple from 
the date of payment  to the date of settlement);  and
    Pay an additional £200 for his upset and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2516603