K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about Ocaso  SA, Compania  de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) handling  
of a claim he made on a buildings insurance  policy.
background
Mr S is the leaseholder of a flat. Ocaso  provides the buildings  insurance for this property. 
Mr S had rented out the flat and was overseas. He was told there was a leak in the flat. He 
spoke to his agent but the leak wasnt fixed until after hed returned to the UK. It was 
established the floor of the property had been damaged.
Mr S claimed on the insurance policy. Ocasos agent attended the property and inspected 
the damage. It noted the leak appeared to have been going on for nearly a year and that 
Mr S had been made aware of it when it started. Ocaso declined  Mr S claim.  It said a 
condition of the insurance policy  required Mr S to notify it within 90 days  of a potential  claim. 
He hadnt done this.
Mr S complained to Ocaso. It rejected his complaint. It said the 90 day condition  was in 
place to minimise the damage caused  as a result  of an incident. As Mr S hadnt contacted it 
when he first knew about the leak, it said the damage was much worse.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. He said hed fixed a small leak when he returned  
to the UK but believed the damage  had been  caused by a further  leak he discovered  after 
hed first spoken to Ocasos agents. He was also unhappy that Ocaso had taken several 
months to decline his claim after the agent had visited.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint. He thought Ocaso were entitled to decline the 
claim. And he could  see it had taken several  months for this to be communicated  to Mr S, 
but hed been kept updated in that time.
Mr S remained dissatisfied. He said he accepted hed need to make a claim against  his 
agent about the failure to notify Ocaso or its agents. But he felt the time taken  to tell him the 
claim wasnt covered was unreasonable. Hes asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Mr S now appears to accept hell have  to pursue third parties about their failure to carry out 
the repairs or notify Ocaso. But he still thinks Ocaso should  have told him the claim wasnt 
covered sooner.
Mr S says hed have understood if the decision to decline cover had taken a month.  He was 
first told the claim might not be covered over two months after the agent  had visited the flat. 
But Ocaso didnt  decline the claim for a further six weeks. Mr S was in regular contact with 
Ocaso throughout this period.
Ref: DRN29023102Mr S was informed of Ocasos decision nearly  four months after its agent  sent it the report 
outlining the circumstances and extent of the damage. The agents report highlighted the 
90 day condition and suggested Ocaso would want  to consider this before further enquiries 
and work  was carried out.
I think the reason  for declining the claim was relatively simple. Mr S knew about  the leak for 
over a year before he contacted Ocasos  agent. The policy  allowed Ocaso to decline a claim 
where it wasnt notified within 90 days.  Its agent  said the extent of the damage could be 
linked to the length of time the leak had gone unrepaired. 
I cant see there was a reasonable explanation for why it took Ocaso four months to make  
this decision. The agents notes show the report was sent between  the agent  and various  
departments and offices of Ocaso.  I think Ocaso  should have clear processes to ensure that 
decisions about its customers claims are made  without unnecessary  delay. I dont think this 
delay was reasonable.
I know Mr S feels the delay meant he missed out on rental income from the flat. But even if 
Ocaso had declined the claim sooner, hed still have needed  to make arrangements for the 
repairs to be carried out privately. And once those were complete, a tenant would need to be 
found before  he could  start receiving this income. I cant  be sure when hed have been able 
to have a tenant  in the flat. So I cant say hes definitely lost out on this income.
I do think the delay  should be recognised. Mr S has been inconvenienced  by the delay, with 
the flat being uninhabitable and him being  unsure of what  he could do. And he was in 
regular contact with Ocasos  agent about the claim. I think  an amount of £50 compensation 
for each  month Ocaso took to make the decision and a further £50 for the phone  calls Mr S 
was making to chase  Ocasos agents for the decision is appropriate. So Ocaso should pay 
Mr S £250  compensation in total to recognise the inconvenience caused to him.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Neither Mr S nor Ocaso responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
Neither party has indicated whether  they accept my provisional findings or not. I havent 
seen anything to change my mind  about  what my decision should be. 
my final decision
My final decisions that I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right,  Ocaso SA, 
Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros should pay £250 compensation to Mr S. 
Ocaso must  pay the compensation within 28 days from when we tell it Mr S accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest at 8% simple a year on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Ref: DRN29023103Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2902310