K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs W bought the PPI at a meeting  in 2001  at the same time as taking a mortgage. The 
mortgage questionnaire Halifax completed at the time says she was employed by a college 
in an administrative role. Mrs W says she was an adviser. She had been there for 12 years.
Mrs W has said she was entitled to at least 12 months full sick pay. Given the nature of her 
employer, I think its likely  this meant six months  full pay followed by six months  half pay  
and not 12 months  full pay. Mrs Ws length  of service and the nature of her employer  also 
makes me think it likely she was entitled  to some work redundancy pay over and above her 
statutory entitlement.
Mrs W has said she was also employed elsewhere as bar staff. This isnt mentioned  on her 
mortgage application and it doesnt look like Halifax had any information about this job. From 
what she has said, Mrs W had sickness cover in this job too. She says one of her jobs was 
for less than 16 hours a week. What Halifax has sent from the time indicates Mrs W worked 
more than 16 hours in her college job. Also,  of the earnings Mrs W has said she had, only a 
small proportion  arent  accounted for by the income her mortgage application says she got 
from her college job. So, what I have indicates Mrs W worked for less than 16 hours a week  
in her bar job and her college job was her main job. 
The mortgage application form Mrs W signed says she was re-mortgaging to raise  £7,000. 
Halifaxs questionnaire from the time says Mrs W owed, on another  loan and her credit card, 
roughly £7,000. It also says she had investments worth £4,000 and £500 in the bank. Mrs W 
has told us she had £10,000 in savings she couldve used to make mortgage payments. In 
deciding her complaint,  Ive accepted  Mrs W had the savings shes  said she had. Mrs W has 
told us of infections she had as a child but not of any other  or more  recent  health  issues.
The PPI policy provided cover for Mrs W for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim, it offered  to pay Mrs Ws monthly  
mortgage payment  plus 25%. Mrs Ws PPI application form expected this to mean a benefit  
of roughly £269 covering  a mortgage  payment of £215 for a premium of £16.28 a month. 
Halifax has sent evidence  to suggest the monthly  mortgage  payment started  at £196, the 
benefit at £245 roughly and the policy premium at £14.82  per month.  
Halifax has also sent us evidence to show the mortgage account closed in 2004.
Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. Ill 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mrs Ws representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs W wouldnt have taken the 
PPI and the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs Ws representatives  believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
Ref: DRN26489402The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mrs W about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs W and the impact they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mrs W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN26489403There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of Mrs Ws 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Ref: DRN26489404Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs W sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs W suffered  loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs W and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs W know  she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs W says she had no interest in PPI and 
she says it was just included as part of the package with her mortgage. But to take the PPI 
Mrs W signed a PPI application form, separate from the mortgage application form. She also 
signed a separate box on her mortgage  application  form to say she would  like the PPI. So, 
it looks like the PPI was presented  to Mrs W as something separate from the mortgage and 
she wanted to have it. Also Ive seen nothing from the time to suggest  that Mrs W was told 
she had to take the PPI or had to sign the box or sign the application form for it if she didnt 
want it. Taking everything into account, I think its more likely Mrs W knew the policy  was 
optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it gave  advice during  this sale. Mrs W hasnt said whether advice was given or 
not. With all this in mind,  Im persuaded  Halifax  gave  advice. This means Halifax  had to 
advise Mrs W with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was appropriate 
or suitable given  her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
Halifax took some steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation for 
Mrs W. The adviser had some  information about her financial circumstances as part of the 
mortgage application, like how long shed worked for the college and what she earned there.
Ref: DRN26489405Also, although Halifax doesnt appear  to have had any details of her bar job, Mrs Ws PPI 
application form suggests Halifax established  that in her college job she worked at least  16 
hours a week, was permanently employed  and wasnt aware of impending unemployment  
and that in the previous  12 months she hadnt seen  a doctor for anything that wasnt  minor.
But I dont think Halifax did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable and establish Mrs W had 
a need for it. For example, Ive nothing to show Halifax asked Mrs W about her redundancy 
or sick pay entitlements. Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax 
did all it should have  done to determine  whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs W given her 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs W, I do think  its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-The monthly cost of the PPI appears  to have been affordable  for Mrs W.
-Mrs W had a need for the policy. If she lost her main job or couldnt  work for an extended  
period, I think it was likely Mrs W would suffer  a fall in income. The PPI benefit would 
help her manage the consequences of this. Mrs W had savings she had chosen to keep 
and not use to repay borrowings or reduce the mortgage loan she was taking. The PPI 
benefit, by helping with her mortgage related costs  and so protecting their home, would 
have helped Mrs W keep those savings  intact or free to meet other  liabilities at what  
could be a difficult time if she were to lose her main job or become too sick to work.
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months  for each  claim and for 
disability would only pay if Mrs W were unable to do her or any similar job and unable to 
do any work her experience, education or training reasonably qualified her to do. But it 
still provided valuable  cover given Mrs Ws circumstances, the loss of income its likely 
she would suffer were  she unable  to work  for a time due to disability, or if she lost her 
main job, and the impact this could have on her ability  to pay her mortgage and preserve 
the savings shed chosen to keep intact. Also, the PPI protected the mortgage payments 
on her home and I bear in mind the potential consequences if Mrs W were to have 
become unable to make repayments  on loans secured against her house.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs W. She had two 
jobs but nothing  about her main job or occupation wouldve made it difficult  for her to 
claim. If she lost that job and continued with the work shes  told us she did in her other 
job, Mrs W wouldnt have  been prevented from claiming the PPI unemployment benefit, 
based on what shes told us about her other job. Also Mrs Ws main job was permanent  
and, as for her childhood infections, Im not persuaded these had a bearing  on Mrs Ws 
prospective health at the time - but the policy didnt exclude disability claims arising  from 
pre-existing health issues in any case.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Ref: DRN26489406Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs W was given a broad description of what the PPI 
was intended  to cover (that is, it would protect her payments  if she couldnt work due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs. I say this because I 
think its unlikely Mrs W wouldve  taken the PPI without  any sense of what it was for or what 
the premium would be. Also, directly  above where  she signed to take the cover, Mrs Ws 
mortgage application form said the PPI was Mortgage Repayments Insurance  insuring  
against accident,  sickness and involuntary unemployment.
Also, the PPI application form she signed showed  the PPI cost for an anticipated  mortgage  
payment. The actual cost and benefit would vary from this in line with variations in the actual 
mortgage payment  due - the cost for Mrs W and corresponding benefit  at the start was lower  
than on the form - but I think it likely  what Halifax told Mrs W gave her a good idea of what 
the PPI might cost and what she would get in return for what  she might  pay for it.
But Halifax  didnt tell Mrs W the exact cost or benefit amount before she agreed to the PPI, 
and the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Halifax  gave sufficient 
information to Mrs W about the PPI exclusions  or limitations.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs W, Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mrs W all the information she needed  
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ws. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ws representative considers to be poor value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
Ref: DRN26489407what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs W? To what extent  did Mrs W 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs W. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs W 
would have still taken  the policy, had Halifax done  things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs W, I have found that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that whether  or not Mrs W has suffered  loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mrs W wouldve  acted  differently or whether she would have taken the policy in any event. 
Mrs W says she wouldnt  have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mrs W had some interest in taking PPI. By this I mean  
when Halifax advised her there was a suitable  product she could buy that would protect her 
mortgage payments  if she were  unable to work due to accident,  sickness or unemployment, 
she concluded she wanted that product. But she made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what she thought she was getting is not exactly  what  she got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Also, in the light of what she was told, although  she wasnt told the exact  premium  when she 
agreed to take the cover, Im not persuaded Mrs W would have found the cost unacceptable 
if she had been  given the exact figure during  the meeting at which she agreed to the policy.  
She wasnt told the exact benefit figure at the meeting  either, but the benefit would more 
than cover the monthly mortgage payment so, in light of this and the information her PPI 
application form had given, I dont think Mrs Ws expectations of what the policy  would pay 
are likely to have been much different to what it wouldve  paid
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations  and exclusions,  
wasnt as clear as it should have been. Possibly  the most significant differences between  
what Mrs W thought she had bought and what she actually bought were the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs W 
wasnt a permanent employee;
Ref: DRN26489408The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs W be unable to do 
her own or any similar job and also be unable  to do any paid work  her experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified her to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs W pause for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude the policy  wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs W from taking the policy.  
But the evidence  about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Also I havent seen any evidence to suggest  Mrs W 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  disability claims for pre-existing 
health issues werent excluded, although  I dont think Mrs W had health issues, and she was 
in permanent employment. So, I think Mrs W still had some  good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these were more onerous than Mrs W might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation mightve dissuaded some consumers in slightly  different circumstances to Mrs W 
from taking the policy,  Mrs W, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons  to take it.
If Mrs W had known she could only claim for disability if she were  unable to do her own or 
any similar job and unable  to do any paid work her experience, education  or training  
reasonably qualified her to do, it might have  played into her thinking about what to do. And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  but, given her circumstances,  on balance I 
think she would still have  been interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mrs W that any claim she made would  be limited to a 24 month  
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and mightve hoped for. But her sick 
pay and redundancy pay were  both likely  less than 12 months full pay. In those 
circumstances, I consider it likely Mrs W wouldve still thought a policy that paid up to 24 
monthly benefit payments would be of benefit to her and help her manage the consequences 
if she were unable to work,  particularly  for a prolonged  period, in the circumstances covered 
by the PPI. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  could  help her keep her savings intact  or free for 
other uses - and helped  ensure her home  was not placed at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs W would still have  taken  the policy. The policy was suitable  for her, sufficiently close  
to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits  that would help her 
manage the consequences  if she were  made  redundant, or unable to work through  accident  
or sickness. In the circumstances,  I consider  it more likely than not Mrs W would have taken 
the policy in any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN26489409Mrs Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs W would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs W in the position she would have  been  in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she would not have taken the PPI, Im satisfied 
that, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not Mrs W wouldve still taken the PPI had 
she been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she was buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Halifax should pay Mrs W compensation, as that would  put her in a better position than she 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.
Im also aware Mrs W thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept theres a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs W, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2001 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ws representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs W and about the remedy  
a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
Ref: DRN264894010reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs W in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2648940