K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that Santander UK plc has been unable to trace  an account which 
contained about £7,683  which  she last used in about 1998.
background
Miss L says she rediscovered a passbook in 2018 for an account containing about £7,683. 
She says she doesnt have any recollection  about  closing  the account  or any record of 
transferring the money, and would like her money  back.
Santander says it has no trace  of the account and believes it was closed between  1999 and 
2000. It says that as it submitted a tax report to Her Majesties Revenue  and Customs 
(HMRC) in 1999 but not in the following  years.
Miss L brought  her complaint to us but our investigator also thought  it more  likely the 
account had been closed.  She thought banks and building societies couldnt be expected  to 
keep records indefinitely  and that the tax report provided evidence  that the account had 
been closed. The adjudicator also thought that a passbook didnt provide evidence that an 
account was still open.
Miss L doesnt accept  that view and says she didnt live in the United Kingdom between  
1999 and 2000 and so its unlikely she couldve closed the account then. She also maintains 
that the passbook provides evidence the account  wasnt closed by her. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator. I realise  Miss L will be disappointed by my decision.
I appreciate that Miss L says she has no recollection  of the account being closed. But I think  
that is the most likely  explanation here. I say that as Ive seen from Santanders records  that 
under its legal obligations, it sent a tax report to HMRC in 1999  but not in the following years. 
Im satisfied that Santander is obliged to provide that information and if it didnt then I think 
that is due to the account no longer being open. If the account was still open  then I would  
have expected it to appear on Santanders  records and a record of a return to HMRC being 
present.
Im satisfied that Santander has tried to trace this account but without success. I understand 
Miss Ls concern  about the passbook. But as the investigator has explained just because  
Miss L has a passbook showing a balance doesnt  mean the account is still open.  I think a 
number of banks  or building societies  allow withdrawals or accounts  to be closed without 
passbooks being  present  or updated.
Ref: DRN28960282my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2896028