K821x#15complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about the handling  of a claim under  his central heating insurance policy 
with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
Mr P called British Gas on 4 May 2018, after the outside water  pipe broke  off. British Gas 
sent a contractor out to repair it. Mr P says he pushed the pipe together and also apparently 
repaired a seal under the kitchen sink. However,  Mr P says that after he turned the 
dishwasher on, the kitchen was flooded, as the repair was not done  properly. Mr P says the 
leak was coming from the same area that the contractor had worked  on under the sink. 
Mr P called British Gas again  and it told him another contractor would attend that same day 
to carry out an emergency  repair. However, the contractor appointed to attend  that evening  
called Mr P direct. Mr P says that the contractor was abusive and swearing and shouting at 
him that he was not going to come that evening, as it wasnt  an emergency. 
Mr P complained to British Gas and asked that neither contractor attend his property,  
however, despite  this the original contractor  attended the following day. The contractor 
replaced the u-bend under the sink. He also said the other  contractor (who had been  rude to 
Mr P) was trouble. I understand there have been no further leaks  but Mr P says that British  
Gas has still not mended the broken pipe outside properly.  
British Gas has offered  £100 compensation for the handling of the claim.  It says the 
contractors version of the telephone  call is different from Mr Ps and so it cant  be certain 
what was said but it has spoken to the contractor and provided him with some feedback 
about the call. British  Gas also says its contractor replaced a 1.5 inch socket  to the outside 
waste pipe during the first visit but this didnt resolve the problem, so when he came back 
out he replaced the trap.
Mr P remains unhappy with British Gass  handling of the claim. He has made a number of 
submissions, which Ive summarised  below: 
The contractor didnt  fit any parts what so ever outside the property:  all he did was 
push the perished  rubber  waste pipe collar back into the waste  soil pipe to connect 
the sink waste  to the main outside  soil pipe. What he should  have  done  was to fit a 
new rubber seal and then connect it back up. 
As a result, when the washer is on the weight of the waste  water  in the pipe just pulls 
out the rubber seal and theres  water everywhere. He has bought waste  pipe clips 
and fitted them  to support the waste pipe so it stops the seal from coming out again 
and again. 
The part British Gas says it fitted was actually  fitted by his plumber when  he had the 
new kitchen fitted and it clearly says the name of the kitchen manufacturer  on it. 
The water  leak damaged everything the kitchen cupboard  (such  as washing powder, 
dishwasher tablets  etc.). The water  also got underneath the newly fitted linoleum 
causing a disgusting damp  smell. He had to rip up the lino which  was professionally  
laid to dry it out and then had to re-lay it. And the cupboard has a small swell at the 
back, where the water was leaking through onto the floor.
Mr P says that British  Gas and its contractors have failed to investigate this properly and are 
trying to cover it up. Mr P wants an apology; a full and correct  investigation; and 
Ref: DRN25690772compensation to take into account  time,  stress, poor customer service,  poor workmanship, 
poor investigation, lies, property  damage to my kitchen unit, thrown  away items due to water  
damage.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. He recommended that British Gas attend  to 
put the seal on the soil pipe and waste pipe joint and pay an additional £150 compensation 
(so a total of £250) for the trouble caused by the handling of the claim. The adjudicator  also 
recommended that British  Gas ensure that neither contractor involved with this claim attend 
Mr Ps property  in the future. 
British Gas didnt  respond  to the assessment and so the matter has been referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This should have  been a relatively  simple issue to repair. Mr P says that the original 
contractor spent very little time outside when  he first attended and did not replace the part 
outside at all but changed something  under the sink. It was this that leaked later the same  
day. I agree with the adjudicator that the evidence is persuasive  that British  Gas caused this 
leak and this doesnt appear  to be disputed.  
This caused some inconvenience to Mr P in clearing up the water and drying out the lino, he 
also lost the contents of the cupboard. There is also some damage to the cupboard although 
it doesnt appear to affect its use.  
British Gas says it has now completed  the necessary repairs  and fitted  certain parts. 
However, Mr P has disputed this and has also provided a photo  showing the waste  pipe 
separated from the soil pipe. Theres no other evidence  to counter this from British  Gas. I 
therefore also agree that it is more likely than not, this has not been  completed.  In any event, 
given the problems that have arisen so far, I would expect British  Gas to check  the work 
done. 
Mr P has also said that one of British  Gass contractors was abusive  and aggressive  in a  
phone call to him. There is no recording of this call available to me. However, there  is no 
reason to doubt Mr Ps account of this call. In any event,  there  was no reason for the 
contractor to call Mr P direct (Mr P had been  talking  to the office before this) and he has 
provided proof of the incoming call to his phone. 
Overall therefore, I agree  with the adjudicator that British Gas should replace the seal on the 
waste pipe where  it joins the soil pipe and that it should pay the total sum of £250 
compensation (to include the £100 already  offered)  for the trouble caused by its handling of 
the claim.  
It should also endeavour to ensure that neither of the plumbers that attended  this claim go 
out to Mr P in the future. I do not intend  to make  this part of my order, as it might not always 
be possible  for British Gas to comply  with this but I would  expect  it to use its best 
endeavours. 
Ref: DRN25690773my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to: 
repair the seal between the kitchen waste pipe and soil pipe; and 
pay Mr P £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of this claim. (This  is to include the £100 British  Gas already offered. So if it 
has paid this already  then it only needs  to pay the balance  of £150.) 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2569077