K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the administrative difficulties  he encountered when making a 
mortgage application with TSB Bank  plc and that the bank was wrong to tell him that he 
couldnt use his Help to Buy ISA with another lender with his TSB mortgage. He would 
like to be compensated for his loss. 
background
Mr M applied  got a mortgage promise from TSB in September  2017.  Mr M then applied 
for a mortgage on 26 October 2017 and got a mortgage offer on 7 December 2017.  Mr 
M says that TSB caused various delays throughout the application  and he thought  the 
property might be put back on the market. The mortgage offer came through just before 
this happened. Mr M says that TSB also told him that he couldnt use a Help to Buy ISA 
to assist him buy the property as it wasnt a TSB ISA.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She felt that the 
time involved wasnt unreasonable  given  the type of application. She said that this 
required inputs from Mr Ms accountant and confirmations from Mr M regarding the set-
up of his business and the additional income  he received. Our adjudicator also thought  it 
unlikely that TSB would tell Mr M that he couldnt use his Help to Buy ISA. Mr M 
disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues in this complaint. Firstly the time it took for TSB to process  the 
mortgage application and secondly whether  TSB was negligent in the advice it gave Mr 
M about  the Help to Buy ISA.
Mr M got a mortgage promise  dated  7 September 2017. But the actual application for an 
intended purchase wasnt started until the end of October and completed  at the 
beginning of December.  This wasnt a straight forward mortgage  application. Mr M was a 
first time buyer. He also was in business  for a short period in a new business. Mr Ms 
father says that he had two years tax accounts.  TSB says that when the underwriters 
first looked  at the application on 27 October  2017 they received only one year set of 
accounts.
I appreciate that Mr M felt at times that because of the TSB checks on his income that 
he might  lose the purchase. But I have to accept  that where a purchaser has different 
sources of income  and where the business  isnt long established,  its reasonable for the 
lender to do further checks than where the business has been  longer established  with 
several years accounts. This was no doubt  an inconvenience and a concern for Mr M but 
I dont believe it to be unfair or the application unduly prolonged.
The other issue is that Mr M missed out on the Help to Buy bonus. Mr M says that TSB 
told him he couldnt use the Help to Buy ISA which he had with a different bank. Mr M 
Ref: DRN21594832had been saving on a regular basis into a Help to Buy ISA. Mr M wrote  to our adjudicator 
on 12 October 2018 attaching his Help to Buy ISA statement and telling her You  can 
see I had been  saving via standing order every  month then at the end of November I 
withdrew the balance,  pulling all my funds together  at the TSB for my deposit . Mr M 
took £3,500 out of his ISA on 23 November 2017.  Unfortunately, because of this Mr M 
couldnt t claim his ISA bonus. The Help to Buy bonus is funded by the government. The 
bonus is added to the amount in the ISA when  the ISA is closed in anticipation  of a 
house purchase and those funds  are used in the house purchase.  It cant  be used to 
fund a deposit.
The reason  that Mr M lost the bonus is that he removed the money from the ISA on 23 
November. Mr Ms complaint is that TSB told him that he wouldnt be able to use his ISA 
with his TSB mortgage. Mr Ms father  records the conversation at point  m of his letter to 
our adjudicator of 22 February 2019 Yes the TSB did ask how he was funding  his 
deposit and he told them, they told him he could not use his ISA bonus with the TSB 
application and this was wrong and thus his son suffered a fiscal loss.  But if the 
conversation was about whether Mr M could use the bonus for his deposit as Mr M says 
then the TSB advice  was correct and in line with how the Help to Buy scheme is meant 
to work.
Unfortunately for Mr M the bonus isnt available for a deposit although it can be used as 
part of the purchase money at the time of completion of the purchase. So, if as appears 
to be the case,  Mr M asked TSB whether he could use the ISA for his deposit  and TSB 
told him that he couldnt do so, I cant fairly  say that TSB has done anything wrong. Mr M 
went ahead  and withdrew that money which caused him to lose his bonus. But that 
wasnt TSBs fault. So, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2159483