K821x#15complaint
L complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) caused it a substantial loss for which it should be 
compensated for. L is represented  in this complaint by one of its directors,  Mr M.
background
In 2015 L entered into a lease agreement with a company  that I will call P for three 
commercial units.
In 2018 L entered into a contract with a company that I will call R for refurbishment works to 
one or more of the three commercial units it had leased from P.
On 23 April 2018 Mr M says L needed to pay £1,000  for materials  so refurbishment works, to 
be undertaken by R, could commence.
Mr M says he was looking to make this £1,000 payment,  on behalf of L, by way of bank 
transfer (from Ls account) but was unable to do because of system problems TSB was 
experiencing. Mr M also says that he was advised by TSB that he should be able to make 
the transfer he was looking  to make  on 24 April.
On 24 April Mr M says he was still unable to make the transfer.
On 25 April Mr M says he visited a branch  of TSB.  However, TSB was still unable  to make 
the transfer, or allow him a cash  withdrawal  in lieu of the same.
Mr M says that between 23 and 27 April inclusive, L had eight men from R on site, all of 
whom were  unable to carry out any refurbishment works. But despite this L was invoiced, on 
30 April, £7,200 for 8 men @ £150  a day for 5 days plus VAT @ 20% by R. 
Mr M also says that as a result of system problems TSB was experiencing L was unable to 
file its Corporation Tax return by the required deadline of 30 April,  resulting in a penalty of 
£100 being levied against it by HM Customs  & Revenue.
Mr M complained to TSB about L having  to pay R £7,200 (for no refurbishment  work being 
completed) and £100 to HM Revenue & Customs.
On 5 June TSB issued  Mr M with a final response  letter (FRL). In this FRL TSB said it 
would pay L £100 in respect of the HM Revenue & Customs penalty of £100 plus a further  
£300 for inconvenience its system problems had caused it. But it wasnt prepared to pay 
anything in respect of the invoice from R of £7,200.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who ultimately concluded  it 
should be upheld  and that TSB should  have  to pay L £7,000, being:
£6,000 in respect of Rs invoice, this being  the sum payable under this invoice net of 
VAT
£1,000 for inconvenience
The investigator made no comment on whether TSB should  have  to pay L £100 (or any 
other sum) in respect of the £100 penalty  levied against it by HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN27347192TSB didnt  agree with the investigators conclusions so the complaint was passed  to me for 
review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in May 2019. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Its clear both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. Both have 
provided detailed  submissions in support of their respective views which  I can 
confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety.  However, I trust that the parties  will 
not take the fact that my findings  focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  point raised. The purpose of my 
decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also like to point  out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or 
contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities - that is, what  I 
consider is most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available and the 
wider surrounding  circumstances.
Rs invoice for £7,200
Having considered what all the parties  have said and submitted on this issue, Im not 
persuaded that it would  be either  fair or reasonable for me to direct TSB to pay L 
anything in respect of this invoice. Ive come to this conclusion having had regard  
when taken together  all of the following:
Ive been unable, or it has been impractical for me, to verify the status of this 
invoice with R. What  I mean  by this is that Ive been  unable  to establish with 
R (or its appointed  agents/representatives) whether, amongst other things, R 
cancelled this invoice  after raising it, issued a full or partial  credit  note against 
it, what payments, if any, it received against  it, or whether it wrote some, or 
all, of this invoice off.
Ive been unable  to establish with L with any degree of certainty what, if 
anything, its obliged  to pay against this invoice, or has paid against this 
invoice. I accept that Mr M has provided  evidence that L, from its account with 
TSB, paid R (or an individual associated with R) six payments totalling £5,500 
between 26 April and 21 June. But Ive seen  no documentary evidence that 
these six payments  are in respect  of Rs invoice dated 30 April,  rather  than 
say other invoices  issued by R.
And in this respect I note that L paid R (or an individual associated with R) 
five payments totalling £7,900 between 15 March  and 20 April suggesting L 
was indebted  to R before the 30 April invoice was issued by it. Furthermore,  
Ive some difficultly in reconciling Mr Ms submission  that L paid R (or an 
individual associated  with R) £1,000 on 26 April in respect of this invoice 
when the invoice is dated 30 April,  some four days later.
Ref: DRN27347193I can see that Mr M says that he paid,  and had no choice but to pay, R (or an 
individual associated  with R) various sums in respect of its 30 April invoice 
from his account, rather than L paying  it from its account. And that in this 
respect he made three payments (between 15 June  and 6 July) totalling 
£3,140. 
But regardless of the circumstances,  I wouldnt expect a liability  between  two 
companies to be settled, or part settled, in this manner, at least without some 
evidence of these  payments  being appropriately accounted for in the relevant 
businesses books/records. Indeed I think its worth pointing out that Mr M 
himself confirmed to our service that making  payments from his account, for 
Ls business purposes, would be againstcompany  processes 
Furthermore I think its also worth pointing out that for whatever reason it 
would appear  that Mr M made similar such payments  from his account, before 
23 April, to R (or an individual associated with R).
I accept that Mr M was unable to make the bank transfer of £1,000 (on behalf 
of L) by bank transfer on 23/24/25 April from Ls account. But it would appear, 
having inspected  Ls account  statements for the relevant  period that such a 
payment could have  been made  on 26/27  April. 
I say this because  Mr M, on behalf  of L, was able to make similar such 
payments on these dates  from Ls account, including one on 26 April to R (or 
an individual associated  with R). And had Mr M (on behalf of L) made  the 
transfer he was seeking  to make  on either  of these two dates then its my 
understanding that some refurbishment works could have been undertaken 
and for which  L was charged £1,440 a day gross, or £1,200  a day net.
As pointed out by the investigator  we would expect a complainant, in this 
case L, to take steps to mitigate any loss flowing from an error made by the 
business, in this case TSB. Now I accept  the points  raised by Mr M as to why 
this was, or would  have  been, difficult.  But Im not persuaded it was 
impossible. By way of example, I cant see why R wasnt  able to purchase the 
required materials and then invoice L for the same, particularly given that it 
was already prepared, in essence,  to provide L with £7,200  worth  of labour in 
advance of payment  for the same  being  made by L.
HM Customs  & Revenue  penalty of £100
L received a penalty notice from HM Customs  & Revenue, dated 16 May,  for £100 for 
the late filing of its Corporation Tax return.  Mr M says this penalty was incurred due 
to L being unable to file its return when it wanted to (between 23 and 30 April) 
because it was unable  to access a number of historical bank statements on-line from 
TSB. However, having  considered what all the parties have said and submitted on 
this issue, Im not persuaded that it would be either fair or reasonable for me to direct  
TSB to pay L anything  in respect of this penalty notice. Ive come to this conclusion  
having had regard  when  taken  together  all of the following:
Ref: DRN27347194L had several months, prior to 23 April, to have to hand everything it, or its 
accountant, required to make  this return, and indeed any other  returns  it was 
required to make  for example  the filing with Companies House of its 
financial statements. 
Mr M, as a director of L, is required under various legislation (including the 
Companies Act 2006) to ensure that L keeps adequate accounting records. In 
my view this would  suggest L would have  had, or should have had, access to 
any required bank statements from its own records and no need, on or after 
25 April, access to these  from TSB.
Its my understanding that for Corporation Tax purposes what would  have 
been critical to submitting  an accurate  return would have  been the entries  
posted to, or through, Ls cash book not to, or through, Ls bank statements.
Even if L could have  accessed the required bank statements from TSB on 
25 April, Im not persuaded this would  have given  it sufficient  time to complete 
and file the required Corporation Tax return by 30 April.
Although I accept HM Customs & Revenue  and Companies House returns  
can be made independently of each  other,  and at separate  times, I think its 
worth noting that L was late in filing its financial statements for the year 
ending 31 July 2017 and is currently late in filing its financial statements for 
the year ending 31 July 2018.  This in my view suggests that there might be 
other reasons  for Ls 30 April Corporation Tax return being filed late, rather  
than simply Ls inability to access various  bank statements on, or after,  
25 April from TSB.
inconvenience
Despite what I say above I accept that L, as a result of what TSB did or failed to do, 
suffered some inconvenience  for which it should  be fairly compensated. But taking 
everything into account, including what I say above,  I think  £750 represents  a fair and 
reasonable sum for TSB to have to pay in this respect. In coming to this conclusion 
Ive had regard  to, amongst other  things,  that my role is to compensate L for 
inconvenience caused to it, not the distress  and inconvenience caused to Mr M.
TSB responded to say that it accepted by provisional decision.
Mr M, on behalf  of L, didnt respond to my provisional decision  by the date given.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that TSB accepted my provisional decision and Mr M, on behalf of L, didnt respond by 
the date I gave, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision and I now I confirm  it 
as final.
Ref: DRN27347195my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc, to the extent it hasnt done so already, must pay L 
£750 in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
L, to accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2734719