K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained about  their home insurer Legal & General Insurance 
Limited (L&G) in respect  of the settlement it made to them for their water  damage claim.
background
Mr and Mrs A noticed a pressure drop in their boiler  and leaks  were found in piping under 
the kitchen flooring; the kitchen and hallway floors were affected. L&G provide trace and 
access on their home insurance  policy, as well as cover for damage  reinstatement.  Whilst 
tracing work  was on-going, another leak under the bedroom floor was found. Claims were 
accepted.
Once the leaks were  stopped a loss adjuster  visited to assess the damage.  That was
23 January 2018.  He was aware  that Mr and Mrs A were going to get estimates for the work 
to be completed. An estimate was obtained  on 29 January 2018 for reinstating  the kitchen 
and hallway. The estimate confirmed work would start on 19 February 2018.
Mr and Mrs A went on holiday and when they returned Mrs A emailed the loss adjuster on
13 February 2018 and told him contractors were booked to start on Monday 19 February.
On 15 February  2018 Mrs A spoke to L&G. She didnt mention  that the reinstatement  work 
was due to start on the Monday. But she did explain that it had been decided that pipes  
needed re-routing and this work  was underway. She said shed send all the estimates to 
L&G once she had them.
On 19 February,  the day the reinstatement  work was due to start, Mrs A sent the estimates 
to the loss adjuster.  They  totalled around  £35,000. There  was also an estimate for trace 
and access work in the living  room (other trace and access costs had been  settled  by 
payment agreed  on 15 February 2018).
L&G reviewed the quotes against  its own scope  of works. It offered, following  some  uplifts  
for work  it accepted  was necessary but not included within its scope, £13,761.62, plus VAT 
on receipt of invoices for the kitchen reinstatement and £1,256.66, plus VAT on receipt  of 
invoices, for the bedroom. It explained  VAT was only due once payable and that its liability 
equated to what it would  cost it to do the work.  It also agreed to pay £971.34  for the 
bedroom carpet and a bill for £150 for electrical testing.
It isnt clear if it accepted,  or gave any allowance  within its settlement offers for the costs set 
out for re-routing of the pipework (£4,875).
Mr and Mrs A were unhappy. They felt L&G should  have advised  them  at an earlier  stage 
that it would only pay what its costs would  have been, that would have  allowed them to 
make a more informed choice about what to do. They feel it should have told them to wait 
and to not go ahead with work  until costs  had been  reviewed.  Mr and Mrs A also said that 
L&G didnt make  its contractors available to them in a timely manner or even told them  
when they could start and this influenced  their decision on what  to do.
L&G said its offer was correct and wouldnt be increased any further.  It said it hadnt 
authorised Mr and Mrs A to go ahead with any reinstatement work and it didnt believe that 
there had been  any delay.  It noted a contractor had been appointed by it in error and 
apologised for this mistake. Mr and Mrs A complained to this service.
Ref: DRN20599072Our adjudicator didnt  think that L&G had done  anything wrong, and he didnt think
Mr and Mrs A had clearly told L&G of their expectations for it to pay their quoted costs. On 
review he did think that some compensation should be paid for the distress  and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs A had been caused  by L&G appointing a contractor to review 
costs and then being told this had been  done  in error.
L&G accepted the findings. Mr and Mrs A welcomed the compensation offer but remained 
of the view that L&Gs  costs were unreasonably low. They felt it should  have told them of 
their options  for reinstatement  and what taking a cash settlement would mean.
The complaint came to me for review and I felt L&G needed to review two estimates  
provided by Mr and Mrs A. It did so. I wasnt  persuaded  by the response  it gave  and said Id 
likely make it pay the costs Mr and Mrs A had incurred. L&G provided some final objections. 
Mr and Mrs A responded too. In summary  they said they remained of the view theyd been 
treated unfairly.  Im now issuing my final decision.  My provisional  findings and the parties  
responses are set out and considered below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I said provisionally:
I understand Mr and Mrs As frustration in respect  of L&Gs  costs  for work. But insurers are 
able to carry  out work at much lower rates than those available to private  consumers. And 
the policy L&G provides for Mr and Mrs A does allow it to settle at its costs when making a 
cash payment for the works.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs A werent  aware  of the policy wording that allows L&G to settle 
claims at its cost. But it is quite common and isnt something Id have expected it should 
have told them during the initial call that was made  to report the leak.  Mr and Mrs A were 
told during that call to not do any work beyond tracing the leak and repairing  it. They were 
told not to complete any reinstatement  works.
It isnt clear what was said during the loss adjusters  visit. Ive seen the report made 
following that and whilst it refers to the fact that Mr and Mrs A were getting estimates for the
necessary work it doesnt suggest they were going to move  ahead with the work without 
waiting for L&G to first check their quotes.
Mr and Mrs A said they were very clear with the adjuster during this visit that they were 
going to get estimates and book work in. At no point did he warn them what  this would 
mean. They said they left voice  mail messages for him too.
I was aware of Mr and Mrs As account of events when I made my provisional findings. 
I dont doubt they feel they made  the loss adjuster aware  but there is no 
contemporaneous evidence to support this. It may well be that a misunderstanding 
occurred at this time. And I bear in mind, as mentioned in more  of my provisional findings 
below, that even within only a few days of work  starting, Mr and Mrs A didnt mention that 
fact when they spoke to L&G. 
Ref: DRN20599073My provisional findings continued:
Im not persuaded  that any delay by L&G caused Mr and Mrs A to reasonably  move  ahead 
with getting work done themselves. The loss adjuster came  to assess the damage within 
only a short period after the leak was stopped. As Ive said it was discussed at this time that
Mr and Mrs A would  get estimates for the work.  Mr and Mrs A got the reinstatement  
estimate within a few days and, at the same time,  agreed with the contractor a date for 
starting the work. That was set for a few days after they were  due to return  from holiday. 
And the estimate  wasnt passed to the loss adjuster  for review until the day work started.
The work to re-route the pipework started sometime after 13 February and was under way 
by the point Mrs A spoke to L&G on 15 February. But the estimate  for that work is dated
19 February  and it was passed  to L&G, along with the other estimates,  at that time.  So 
again I dont think L&G caused any delay that might have given Mr and Mrs A good cause 
to move ahead with the work without giving L&G a chance to assess the costs.
I think the loss adjuster should  have responded to Mrs As email  that she sent saying work 
was booked to start.  But that was only sent 6 days before (on the Tuesday) work was due 
to start on the Monday. The adjuster would have needed a few days  to reply. So he 
reasonably should have  replied on Friday at the latest. The contract Mr and Mrs A had for 
the works  said that if cancellation occurs within 28 days  of the start date, they would have to 
pay the contractor,  as a minimum, 15% of the estimate for works.  In this case that would 
have totalled nearly  £4,000. And the contract  also allows for penalties for lost work to be 
charged. It seems unlikely to me, with such short notice, the contractor would have been 
able to find work on a Friday to start on the Monday.  Therefore, Im not convinced that 
Mr and Mrs A would have risked cancelling at that stage.
In saying  that I bear in mind that any warning the loss adjuster could have given would only 
have been quite general because he hadnt  seen the estimates. Im not persuaded that if he 
had said that a cash settlement would be at its cost, Mr and Mrs A would have likely taken 
that to mean that to continue with their contractor  they might  be facing a shortfall  in excess  
of the very real and definite contract  charge theyd  face at that point if they cancelled the 
work.
Once the quotes had been seen I think L&Gs loss adjuster probably had a fair idea right 
away that the work cost more than it was likely to recommend in settlement. Im not sure its 
reasonable to say it should have  flagged that straightaway without having the chance to 
carry out a full assessment. But, even at the point the quotes were  sent the work had
started.
Mr and Mrs A said their email was never replied to. And at no point did anyone warn  them  
they wouldnt be getting full settlement. 
From the timeline Ive set out here,  based  on the balance of evidence available,  L&G wasnt  
given a clear opportunity  to provide that advice. And by the time it was (as soon as the 
quotes were seen) work had already started. My provisional findings  on that point 
continued:
 And the contract for the works stipulates  that at least 50% will be charged once work 
begins if cancellation occurs. There is also the difficulty, once work starts, of being able to
get another contractor to finish that other  traders work.
Ref: DRN20599074And that point is relevant when considering the work  Mr and Mrs A had done to re-route the 
pipes. This work started without L&G being  made aware it was going to be done, without it 
agreeing to it or accepting  any cost for it. I havent  seen  that it was subject to the same kind 
of terms as the reinstatement works contract. But Mrs A clearly needed that work 
completing. So Im not persuaded  she would  have put a halt on the works  even if L&Gs  call 
handler on 15 February had told her settlement  would be based on L&Gs costs  alone. And 
if she had stopped it, Im not convinced L&G would have been prepared to pick up finishing 
that work which had been started by someone  else.
That being said, there does seem to be an acceptance within  this call that the work itself 
was a reasonable part of the claim.  L&G says it has calculated its settlement based on its 
scope for repair. And it doesnt  seem to include  any allowance for re-routing. Therefore, Im 
going to ask L&G to either show me that this work  has been accounted for in its settlement, 
or explain what it feels a fair and reasonable settlement for it is, and pay that sum.
L&G said it views the call content  differently. It said that during the call Mrs A was asked to 
submit estimates for review. So it didnt feel it should have to pay anything for this work,  
which it sees as preventative and not covered by the policy.  When pushed for its cost for 
having carried out this work L&G said it didnt think it should have to pay for trace  and 
access work as well as the cost of re-routing. So it would  pay the difference between  
Mr and Mrs As costs  for the two.
Its very often the case that insurers will not pay for re-routing of pipes as this is 
preventative work. But whilst L&G knew Mrs A was forging ahead with this work, and that 
she was under the impression the work had been  agreed to by the loss adjuster, L&G did 
not tell her during the call on 15 February that it would not be covering or would be unlikely 
to cover this cost. It created a reasonable expectation at this point that at least some of her 
costs for this work  would be covered. So Im not minded to say L&G can fairly refuse  to pay 
for all of this work.
L&G has said it thinks fair settlement would  be the difference between the cost of tracing 
work and re-routing. But Mr and Mrs A experienced both costs because  some tracing work 
was done before the decision was made to re-route.  And I said provisionally I felt fair 
settlement would be L&Gs costs for this work. L&G had the opportunity to provide that 
information and didnt. I told L&G that without  it Id likely find fair settlement would be the 
invoice cost paid by Mr and Mrs A. That is the only available evidence I have of the cost of 
this work. That is what Im now going to require L&G to pay. 
My provisional findings continued:
Likewise, I cant see that it has considered the estimate provided on 19 February 2018 that 
relates to trace and access work. I say that because costs for trace and access  were  paid 
prior to this being seen  by the loss adjuster. The estimate is for £2,785 including  VAT. Im 
going to ask L&G to consider it and make fair settlement for it.
L&G said it had allowed for repair of one square metre of flooring in its settlement. It didnt 
think it should have  to pay any of this invoice.
As I explained provisionally, trace  and access work  was initially  considered and settled for 
separately by L&G.  And L&G was also happy,  regarding the other  tracing work that was 
carried out, for Mr and Mrs A to handle that themselves with invoices being submitted 
afterwards. It didnt  opt to assess  the work  necessary  first or complete a scope. And those 
Ref: DRN20599075invoices were all settled  in full by L&G. So Im not persuaded its fair for L&G to change  the 
goalposts regarding this last invoice. 
That being  said,  if an insurer  shows me that part settlement  has been made, Ill often make 
an allowance for that in any award  I make. Here, L&G has shown me that its settlement 
included an allowance for the labour cost for lifting and renewing  one square  metre of 
flooring in the lounge. But it hasnt said what the value of that allowance was. I can see 
though that L&G did tell Mr and Mrs A what its costs would have been for reinstating the 
bedroom floor, including materials. L&G said that was £16 per metre.  So I think  then L&Gs 
value for the living room  floor work  one square metre only, excluding  materials  was 
likely minimal. 
Minimal or not, I cant fairly  make  a deduction  from Mr and Mrs As invoice  amount  when  
L&G hasnt shown me what value it has already paid against  this. But because something 
has been paid Ill build  an allowance in elsewhere so that L&G doesnt have to pay twice, 
which would be unfair and unreasonable.
As I said,  L&G always treated the trace and access work differently to that required for 
reinstating damage. From the outset it gave Mr and Mrs A authority to carry out work  which  
it then paid for without  question. Therefore, I think this final invoice should reasonably have 
been paid when the reinstatement work offer was made. That was 6 March 2018. On that 
basis I think L&G should reasonably pay interest  on the invoice amount from that date until 
settlement is made but less an allowance for the cost of work  it previously allowed for in its 
settlement (the likely value for which Ive commented on above).
My provisional findings continued and concluded as follows:
With regret  for any disappointment this will cause Mr and Mrs A, and with the exception  of 
the two estimates  Ive asked L&G to review  above, Im not going to require it to review or 
increase its settlement for this claim. I havent  seen any evidence  that it failed 
Mr and Mrs A, such that would give me good reason to say it cant  fairly rely on the policy  
term that allows  it to settle the claim, based on what it would have cost it to do the work. 
Therefore, I find that L&G basing its settlement on what it would have cost it to do the work  
is fair and reasonable.
Again with the exception of the two estimates  Ive said I dont think L&G has considered,  
Ive seen no evidence  that makes me think L&Gs scope for repairs was ultimately lacking 
any necessary reinstatement work.  Certainly to the point L&G issued its final response
Mr and Mrs As challenge  of its proffered  settlement was based on the price  it had set 
against that work. There were a couple  of items that werent initially  included  in its scope, 
underfloor heating for example, but these items once flagged and evidenced were included  
resulting in the initial settlement being increased.  And I understand that payments for the 
initial trace and access work were made in line with the invoices provided (at that time). If 
Mr and Mrs A think other costs are outstanding,  apart  from in respect of the two estimates  
Ive said L&G should review, perhaps in reference  to other  leaks,  these need to be clearly 
put to L&G for it to consider.
That being said I do think L&G caused Mr and Mrs A some  distress and inconvenience as a 
result of it appointing  a contractor to review necessary  work  and costs. Mr and Mrs A were 
happy to agree to this review and took time to meet the contractor. But afterwards L&G said 
the appointment had been a mistake,  it was satisfied with the scope it had produced, along 
with its costings, and it wouldnt be reviewing that. So L&G created a false impression  that 
Ref: DRN20599076there would be a review  and Mr and Mrs A took time to cooperate  in that respect.  Im 
satisfied that £200 compensation is fairly and reasonably due to make  up for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused.
Overall - Ive considered  Mr and Mrs As objections but I remain of the view that L&G isnt 
responsible for paying the entire cost of the invoices submitted to it by Mr and Mrs A. Im 
satisfied that in the main it was entitled  to settle for the work at the price it would have cost 
it to carry it out. There are two notable  exceptions to this though   the costs for re-routing 
pipework and floor work in the lounge. Im going to require L&G to pay these  invoices in full. 
The floor work invoice will attract interest but a deduction from the interest  amount can be 
made to account  for the settlement L&G has already paid for this work. Im also going  to 
require L&G to pay £200 compensation. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require Legal  & General Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr and Mrs A:
£4,875 as reimbursement for the cost to re-route pipes.
£2,785 as reimbursement for the cost of work in the living room, plus interest* from 
6 March 2018 until settlement is made but from the interest amount due a deduction can 
be made for costs previously paid for this work, the extent of the likely value of which Ive 
commented on above.
£200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 October  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Legal  & General 
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to 
Mr and Mrs A, it should tell them  how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr and Mrs A a certificate showing  this if they ask 
for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2059907