K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building  Society  wont refund him for a payment which  he 
says he didnt make or authorise.
Background
On 28 February 2019, Mr Ms account  was debited with £699.99.  The payment was made 
online. Mr M says he doesnt recognise the transaction and that Nationwide told him that it 
wasnt made in his name and that the item was delivered to a different address. He still had 
the debit card in his possession when the transaction was made,  said he uses his mobile 
and a computer  in an internet caf for most transactions,  but he doesnt remember saving 
his card details anywhere.
Nationwide investigated  but wouldnt refund the payment. It said the IP addressed used for 
the transaction was one that Mr M had used before.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded 
Mr M had authorised the transaction because the payment had been authenticated and the 
device used to make the payment was a workplace computer which  had been used by Mr M 
before; and Mr Ms employer at the time confirmed he was at work when the transaction took 
place.
Mr M didnt  agree. He said,  in summary, that:
 The investigator said an online order wont be successful  unless the cardholders 
name and address is used.  But hes provided proof that an order can be placed  
without giving the card holders  home  address.
 The merchants  invoice doesnt include his house  number,  his name,  mobile number or 
email address.  Without this information, Nationwide  should have declined  the 
payment.
 He wasnt allowed  to use work computers for personal reasons, so couldnt have 
placed the order while  he was at work. His employer  hasnt said he logged  onto a 
computer that morning. And hes not been  given  details of the IP address so he cant 
check it.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator, and for similar reasons.
Mr M was in possession of his debit  card when the disputed  transaction was made. To 
authenticate the payment, a third party would have needed the 16 digit card number, the 
three digit security code from the back of the card and the expiry date. And I can see this 
information was correctly entered.
Its not clear how a third party would  have obtained  this information without Mr Ms consent.
Ref: DRN27162832The IP address  used  for the disputed transaction was used by Mr M for two other attempted  
payments, which  were declined due to lack of funds  in the account.  Mr M accepts he made 
both of these attempted transactions. And the IP address is one that is owned  by the 
employer Mr M worked for on 28 February 2019. Both he and the employer have confirmed 
that Mr M was at work  when the transaction was made. So, on balance,  I think its more  
likely than not that Mr M authorised this payment.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2716283