K821x#15complaint
Miss T has complained  about her home  insurer Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA). 
She made a claim to it following a water  leak and she thinks it took too long to resolve  the 
repairs and there were other problems too.
background
A pipe burst at Miss Ts home in October  2016. RSA accepted the claim and in
January 2017  Miss Ts kitchen was removed, along  with its ceiling. Miss T decided not to 
move out of the property.
In July 2017 Miss T complained to this service as she felt shed been treated poorly; having 
to live out of boxes and with no kitchen for so long. RSA had offered £500 compensation but 
she felt it wasnt enough. At that time RSA was still reviewing its positon  on the repair quotes  
and disturbance allowance.
Whilst we began to look into the complaint  Miss T had made  the claim continued to 
progress. A dispute  arose over settlement for the kitchen but this was later resolved. RSA 
made several offers over time in respect  of disturbance allowance.  Its last word on this was 
that it would pay it until the end of October  2017 (the same point at which  it agreed  
settlement for the kitchen and two weeks before any settlement for that was paid).  RSA also 
looked at Miss Ts contents  claim. It said it would pay £3,000  against  a submitted loss list of 
£6,419.57 (which included some  unpriced  items). It also offered a further £100 
compensation as it noted it had delayed making  some other claim payments. Miss Ts 
kitchen was finally reinstated, by her own contractor, in July 2018.
During that time our investigator had issued a view on this complaint but with the continued 
activity it became outdated. The complaint was passed to me for a decision and after 
contacting RSA for some further information  I felt it needed to make  further  payments to 
Miss T to fairly  and reasonably settle  her claim and complaint. I issued a provisional decision 
setting out my views  to give both parties a chance  to respond before I made my final 
decision. I said: 
scope of decision
There is a long history to this claim,  what Ive set out above is a brief summary but Ive read 
and understood  everything the parties  have said and submitted. Whilst I usually only look at 
complaints up to the point a final response  is issued by an insurer it was clear  here that 
despite the continued claim activity  and settlements offered Miss T remained unhappy. And 
RSA did respond to her concerns. Now, particularly as Miss Ts home has been reinstated,  it 
makes sense that all the complaint issues are brought up to date and dealt with altogether  
within this one complaint.
That being said Im not going to go into every detail  of everything  that happened or consider 
every complaint point  made by Miss T, particularly  if its already been resolved (such as the 
kitchen settlement). I have though taken into account any aspect of that where Miss T has 
been caused any distress and inconvenience  (such as being  without  a kitchen for a 
protracted period  because  of the settlement dispute).
claim handling and compensation
Ref: DRN22197982From what  Ive seen I think RSA handled  this claim badly. The communication with Miss T 
was patchy throughout, and internal issues within the loss adjusting  company caused 
delays, as did contractors.  The contractors lied about events. The loss adjuster was meant 
to make an offer for settlement of the buildings claim in April 2017  but didnt, this led to RSA 
telling Miss T an offer had been  made  which shed refused. Claim settlements were delayed  
and the contents claim was never  properly dealt  with. All in all I think  a further £1,000  
compensation should be paid by RSA (in addition to the £500 it offered previously and the
£100 it offered  in respect of late settlement for damaged furniture).
disturbance allowance
That compensation  payment is for distress and inconvenience. The disturbance  allowance  
offered by RSA was made to reflect extra costs Miss T had as a result of not being  able to 
use her kitchen. Whilst the leak occurred in October 2016 RSAs  offer in respect of an 
allowance only took into account the period  from when the kitchen and ceiling were 
removed. I think that starting point  is fair.
The leak came from under Miss Ts kitchen sink. The ceiling wasnt  affected.  But, due to the 
presence of asbestos  and that it had previous  damage,  it needed to be taken down for the 
property to be dried. The kitchen units needed taking out too. However, until this work was 
done the kitchen could  be used.  And in Miss Ts email communications from when the 
kitchen was taken  out (January 2017), its clear  to me that she was using it until this point.  
So to me RSA paying the allowance  from January  2017 is fair and reasonable.
RSAs allowance  though ended before Miss T could reasonably  reinstate  her kitchen. Her 
kitchen wasnt reinstated  until July 2018. I dont think RSA fairly has to pay until then. It 
made an offer to Miss T in late October 2017  which she accepted. It paid the agreed amount 
a couple of weeks later.  I dont think Miss T could have placed  an order  for a kitchen  until 
shed reached  an agreement with RSA about settlement and given lead times for kitchen 
orders, contractor lead times and the time of year, I dont think  she could reasonably have 
got work  completed  before  the end of February  2018. I know  Miss T wasnt able to get work 
done until July but I think my timeframe is reasonable. I think RSA should make  a further 
payment to Miss T, based on the agreed  rate of £20 per day from 1 November 2017 to 
28 February 2018 inclusive (120 days equating  to £2,400).
late payments
RSA noted a payment for damaged furniture was delayed. It offered £100 compensation for 
this, plus interest from 1 November 2016  when the restoration companys report was 
received until 22 November 2017  when  the payment was made. I think thats reasonable.
The initial loss adjusters report (from his visit on 1 November 2016) also noted water 
damaged curtains  and blinds. It was thought these might respond to cleaning but it seems  
this was never addressed. RSA finally made payment by cheque in the sum of £575.47 for 
their replacement in late January  2018. I cant see any good reason why RSA shouldnt pay 
interest on this sum in the same  way it paid it against the delayed  furniture payment. The 
curtains and blinds should reasonably have been  dealt with by the end of November 2016 so 
Im going  to require  RSA to pay interest from 1 December 2016 until 7 February 2018 (which  
allows a reasonable period for the settlement cheque  to be cashed).
After the property was dried the restoration company sent its report  on electricity usage  to 
RSA. That was 9 February 2017 and the sum was only small  £26.28. However, RSA didnt 
Ref: DRN22197983reimburse this to Miss T until 21 November  2017.  I think  it has to make a payment equivalent 
to interest on that figure from that 9 February 2017 until 21 November 2017.
contents
Miss T says a lot of contents were damaged by the leak. The loss adjuster accepted this at 
the point of his initial report. His report refers to uploading loss lists provided by Miss T 
during the visit. A carpet  company appointed  by RSA reported to it in early November 2016 
that the property was very wet. There is some suggestion in the file that contents items were  
meant to be removed to be dried. This didnt  happen.
There was a lot of building reinstatement activity  throughout November and December. 
There was also some correspondence regarding damaged electrical items. In January 
issues arose with strip-out work  and Miss T asked RSA what was happening  regarding the 
contents within the list shown to the loss adjuster.  RSA didnt respond to this query.
The contact  in January from Miss T is the first that Ive seen on the file about the other 
contents. But I can understand with everything  else going on why this was only chased  at 
this point. Putting  this query together with the detail within  that initial  loss adjusters report I 
find I believe  Miss Ts account of bringing damaged  items to the attention of the loss 
adjuster. I havent seen though that the adjuster ever dealt with these matters and the lists 
never seem to have been uploaded  such that later on in the claim RSA suggested Miss T 
hadnt ever provided  them. I dont  think Miss T delayed  in this respect, I think RSA did.
RSA did eventually agree  to consider Miss Ts contents items but said it wouldnt make any 
settlement as it felt she hadnt proved her loss. Later it offered £3,000. I tried to find detail for 
the basis for this settlement in RSAs file. Sometimes assessment of a list like this will result 
in a reasonable conclusion that a reduced settlement is justified. But when I looked at RSAs  
file it became apparent that it hadnt  actually assessed the loss. Rather RSA felt it should 
offer something and that 50% was reasonable. Im not minded to think settlement in that way 
is fair here, not given the strength of evidence from the loss adjusters report and his clear 
failure to deal with the evidence gathered such that Miss Ts position  was prejudiced. So, on 
this occasion,  Im going to require RSA to pay the list price of £6,419.57 plus a total of £400 
(see below) for the unpriced items on the list.
Most of the unpriced  items are things  Id expect to be replaceable at a relatively low cost  
such as console  games,  films, books, board games,  a pair of headphones and an alarm 
clock. I think its reasonable  to say that all these  items could likely be replaced for a total of
£200 and this figure has been accounted for in the £400 mentioned  above.
There is a musical instrument that Miss T says was damaged beyond repair because its cork 
parts got damp. Whilst she didnt price  it on the list provided to RSA she told us that was 
because shed had varying advice as to its replacement value  £200  £500. RSA would 
always settle for the lesser  of any repair or replacement  quote. So I think  its fair to attribute
£200 to this item and this figure has been  accounted  for in the £400 mentioned above.
There are then some groups of photos  that Miss T said she didnt know  how much it would 
cost to replace. At the minute  though Im not minded to make RSA pay anything  for these. If 
they are water damaged Im not sure they could be satisfactorily replaced by copying  and
I havent seen that Miss T has the negatives or any digital copy  of the photos such that they 
could be re-printed. Im also mindful  that photographs degenerate  quite  quickly when 
exposed to water so I think their loss, which understandably has a sentimental and 
Ref: DRN22197984emotional impact or Miss T, has most  likely occurred as a result of the incident, rather  than 
any failure of RSA.
So the original  list total was £6,419.57, plus the £400 for low cost items  and the instrument, 
makes a settlement  for RSA to pay for contents of £6,819.57. Following the methodology 
RSA set for the furniture Im going to require it to pay interest  on this sum. However, had 
RSA handled  this part of the claim appropriately it would  always have taken a little while  
following the loss adjusters initial visit for it to be assessed and settled. Allowing for the fact 
that reinstating the building  would likely  always have  taken priority Im going to say RSA 
should reasonably have  settled the contents  claim by 1 February 2017 and it should pay 
interest from that day and until settlement is made.
responses to my provisional  decision
RSA accepted my provisional findings.  Miss T said she thought that either the disturbance  
allowance or the compensation  should  take into account the appalling conditions theyd lived 
in between October 16 and January 17. She said she did have negatives and re-order  
options available to her in respect of replacing her damaged photographs, and some  could  
be restored. 
Regarding the photos Miss T said there  were colour  ones which she could get reprinted, 
along with some school photos that could be reordered.  The costs for these  were  £72.00  
and £62.00 respectively. There were also some black and white  photos that could be 
restored. A provisional estimate for this work was £2,080, which  Miss T said shed be happy 
to settle for. 
The detail regarding the photos was shared  with RSA. RSA agreed  to pay these  costs,  and it 
said that in an effort to resolve the situation it would do so without  requiring an invoice to be 
produced. 
Following receipt of my provisional decision RSA made a payment  to Miss T in respect of the 
other contents Id found it should pay for. I said it should pay £6,819.57, plus interest from 
the date of loss until settlement was made. RSA paid Miss T £3,538.62. It said it thought  the 
remainder (£3,280.95)  had already been paid. Its since  accepted that was wrong, that this 
sum related to items not on the other contents list. But it said another amount of £513 that 
did relate to other contents had already been paid (so needed deducting  from the award).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did take into account everything Miss T had been through  when I came  to my provisional 
decision. Im satisfied the focus of the claim in the first few months  was on the building  
repairs, although I know physical work  on clearing and reinstating the home didnt 
commence until later. I know the conditions the family were living  in were bad but I have also 
noted that they chose to stay in the house;  RSA had offered to move  them  out but they 
wanted to stay. Notwithstanding that, they shouldnt have suffered as much  inconvenience 
as they did in those initial few months.  But this was taken into account by me when I issued 
my provisional findings.
Ref: DRN22197985Given the failures I felt RSA had made  and which had caused Miss T distress  and 
inconvenience, I felt it should pay a total of £1,600 compensation. That is still my view and 
I note that £600  has already been  received  by Miss T. I know  our investigator felt RSA 
should pay £100 when she issued her view but my findings superseded that. Ill now require 
RSA to pay the remaining £1,000.
I wont increase the period for the disturbance allowance. This is paid to account for the 
extra costs  experienced for living in an uninhabitable home. I found provisionally Miss T was 
using the kitchen until it was removed in January  2017, so she didnt have any extra costs 
associated with not being able to use it until then. And I havent seen that, despite  the 
uncomfortable living conditions prior to January  2017, any other extra  costs  were incurred by 
Miss T during this period.  Ill now require RSA to pay the £2,400  for the extra period I was 
satisfied was fairly due to Miss T; 1 November 2017 to 28 February  2018  inclusive.
Miss T has evidenced that she can replace  or restore her photos. Shes shown the cost 
shell likely incur in doing that. RSA has accepted these costs. Im aware, as is Miss T, that 
the cost of the black and white photo  restoration  is a baseline estimate. But Miss T is happy  
to settle this matter  on that basis. I think in the circumstances its important for this matter to 
come to an end and leaving an issue outstanding which will be subject to later consideration 
and payment doesnt assist in doing that. Im satisfied that a payment to Miss T against the 
baseline estimate  provides a satisfactory  conclusion  for both parties  and exhausts  RSAs 
liability on this matter.  Therefore, Im going to require RSA to pay Miss T a total of £2,214.00 
(being £72.00 for re-printing colour  photos,  £62.00  for replacing school photos, £2,080 for 
restoring black and white photos).  
As it has only been shown  following my provisional  decision  that Miss T can replace or repair  
her damaged photos Im not going to require RSA to pay interest.  The application of interest 
is at my discretion and I have required RSA to pay it against  other  sums. Im not minded to 
continue that with this figure which Im satisfied fairly and reasonably,  in the circumstances 
here, settles RSAs liability  for replacing or restoring Miss Ts damaged photos.
Regarding other contents, in December 2018 RSA paid Miss T £3,538.62 of the sum 
I thought it should pay  £6,819.57. That left £3,280.95 unpaid. From that RSA says £513.00  
needs deducting. I can see that RSA did pay Miss T £513.00 for curtains  and blinds. These 
curtains and blinds, totalling that sum, do form part of the list that gave  me the total I felt 
RSA should pay. So Im satisfied that as this sum for these items  has already been paid, 
RSA doesnt need to pay it again. Therefore, Im satisfied that the final sum for RSA to pay 
Miss T is £2,767.95, plus interest* and I understand that this has been paid.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Miss T:
A further £1,000  compensation  (my total award  being £1,600  with £600 of that already 
having been paid).
£2,400 being the disturbance allowance for the extended period as detailed  above.
A sum equivalent to interest* on the amount  of £575.41 from 1 December 2016 to 
7 February 2018.
A sum equivalent to interest* on the amount  of £26.28 from 9 February 2017 until
21 November 2017.
£2,214 to re-print, replace and restore damaged  photographs.
Ref: DRN22197986My final decision also makes  Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc liable  for the costs  
associated with Miss Ts damaged contents  items. The total figure  in that respect  being  
£6,306.57 (£6,819.57 minus £513.00), and Im satisfied  that interest* from the date of loss 
until the date of settlement must be applied. I understand  that Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc has already  made  settlement in this respect, across  three  payments.  That 
being the case, Im not going to require it to pay anything more. But if it hasnt paid any part 
of this it will now have to.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple  per year and paid on the amounts specified  and from/to  the dates stated. If Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from any interest  due to 
Miss T, it should  tell her how much its taken  off. It should also give Miss T a certificate  showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2219798