K820x#14complaint
Mr Y and Miss W say Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about the sale of a regular premium PPI policy taken out to protect  a 
mortgage in 1993. 
Mr Y and Miss Ws mortgage commenced  in March 1993 and PPI was taken out in 
September 1993. The PPI was also amended in 1995.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr Y and Miss W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Y and Miss Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Y and Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The sale of Mr Y and Miss Ws PPI happened a long time ago, around 25 years. Santander 
hasnt been able to provide too much in the way of paperwork such  as Mr Y and Miss Ws 
mortgage application on any PPI applications. I dont find this surprising. And I dont  expect 
Mr Y and Miss Y to recall with any great detail the sale of the insurance given the time that 
has passed. And typically the purchase of insurance  isnt a memorable experience. This 
makes this a difficult case to decide.
But Santander does  hold some basic information. It knows  that Mr Y and Miss Ws mortgage 
commenced in March 1993  and the policy start date (as evidenced  by the insurer) was 
September 1993. 
The insurer  has also explained that its records show the policy was in both names   but due 
to the time that has passed it cant confirm  what the benefit split was between 
Mr Y and Miss W.
Mr Y and Miss W has said that they felt the PPI was sold to them like a package  and they 
were made to feel that this was something  they needed for the mortgage to be agreed.
I cant say for sure, and I dont know exactly what happened in 1993, but the evidence  
suggests that the mortgage had already been agreed and the PPI was taken around six 
months later. Mr Y and Miss W also amended the cover  in 1995. 
So all things  considered I think  its likely  that Santander made Mr Y and Miss W aware they 
had a choice about buying  the PPI. And they chose to take it to protect  their mortgage 
repayments and then amended it later on to suit their needs.
Ref: DRN25561922Santander says that it would  have  recommended  the PPI to Mr Y and Miss W, and it seems 
to have been right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
Taking a mortgage  is large, long term financial commitment. And borrowers stand to lose 
their home if they dont  keep up with repayments.  The PPI would  have protected 
Mr Y and Miss Ws mortgage for up to 36 months  per claim, if they were unable  to work due 
to an accident  or sickness  and for 12 months  per claim if they lost their jobs.  Also,  it would 
have paid out in addition  to any work  benefits  meaning they could use their work  benefits or 
savings for any other priorities.  
So, all things considered,  I think the cover could have  provided a useful benefit and I cant 
say that the advisers recommendation was unsuitable.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr Y and Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But I think its likely that they chose to take it out - so it looks  like 
they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr Y and Miss W.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr Y and Miss W because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr Y and Miss W about that. Because Santander  didnt 
tell Mr Y and Miss W, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr Y and Miss W any commission and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Santander should also pay back  to 
Mr Y and Miss W any extra  interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr Y and Miss W the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr Y and Miss W 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr Y and Miss W can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr Y and Miss W.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr Y and Miss W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN25561923Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr Y and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2556192