K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about his trading and Contracts for Differences (CFD)  account with IG 
Index Limited. It relates to a trade he opened which then gapped (fell in price) overnight; the 
accumulated loss caused by the price  fall triggered  a margin  call which closed the trade  and 
led to the loss of his account balance plus the creation of around £1,700 in debt owed to IG. 
In the main,  he says:
He was not warned, in opening  and operating the account, about the risk of losing 
more than his investment; no such risk existed in the arrangements for his account 
with a previous  broker so he did not expect such a risk.
IG should have  applied the margin call earlier, which would have reduced the level of 
loss.
The account is inappropriate.  
background
IG did not uphold  the complaint. Mr B referred it to this service. One of our adjudicators 
looked into it and concluded as follows:
The complaint  should not be upheld.
Evidence about Mr Bs profile when he opened the account in 2015 (including his 
high level of income and savings, and his trading experience   including in CFDs  
over the preceding three years)  leads to the conclusion that the execution only IG 
account was not inappropriate  for him.
Warnings about the nature of and risks within CFD trading  including  the risk of 
losing more than the amount a customer deposits  was given to Mr B in the terms 
and conditions agreed for the account  and in information provided on IGs website.
The nature  of the overnight price fall that occurred in Mr Bs trade was such  that it 
was beyond IGs control and its reaction as soon  as it could when the market opened 
was reasonable.
Mr B had comparable previous experience  of trade losses  beyond  his deposit.
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions about risk warnings and about  comparable 
previous experience of trade  losses beyond  his deposit. With regards to the latter he said the 
examples the adjudicator had mentioned did not feature a crystalized  loss  in contrast to 
the crystalized loss (and debt to IG) that resulted from the trade in his complaint.
In terms of risk warnings, Mr B said those which the adjudicator mentioned  and those 
relevant to the case were hidden in small print which was not prominent enough. He also 
said the wording  used for them  did not clearly convey the magnitude of the risk. The 
adjudicator was not persuaded  to change his view.  He considered  that the warnings were 
sufficiently prominent,  that they were set out in the terms (and revised terms)  agreed  with Mr 
B over the relevant  period and that they should not be judged  on the basis  of more recent 
and protective terms which have been  influenced  by new and relatively recent regulations  
nationally and in Europe. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached broadly  
the same  conclusions as expressed in the adjudicators views.
Ref: DRN22239132Appropriateness
Mr Bs account was based  on IGs execution only service. As such,  IG did not have  any 
responsibility for the suitability of his trades,  but it was responsible  for ensuring  that the 
account and the nature of trading within it was appropriate for him.
Appropriateness is assessed  on the basis of information from a client  to a firm about whether 
the client has sufficient  knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the 
service or product offered  by the firm. In this respect, the following information is relevant:
Information about the type of service(s) and investment(s) the client  is familiar with.
Information about the nature, volume, frequency and length  of the clients  experience 
in the familiar service(s) and investment(s).
Information about the clients profession or the level of the clients education.
Mr B does not appear to dispute  the adjudicators finding that the IG account  and the trading 
within it was appropriate  for him based  on his circumstances when he opened  the account in 
2015. For the sake of completeness,  I agree with the adjudicators  finding.  Evidence 
suggests that Mr B was a professional in his field and was high earner  with a significant level 
of savings/capital.  However, importantly, evidence shows  that he had around three years 
worth of previous  knowledge and experience of a comparable account with another  broker  
and in trading  comparable  to the sort of trading offered in the IG account. Indeed, reference 
to this previous  body  of experience appears to be within  his wider arguments in the 
complaint. Overall, I am persuaded that the account  was not inappropriate for Mr B.
Margin Close Outs
In straightforward terms, I have not seen evidence that IG was obliged to apply margin close  
outs in a particular way or in a way that minimised Mr Bs loss or in a way that ensured he 
did not lose more  than his account  deposit. IG says it offers limited risk accounts in which  
there can be assurance that losses will not exceed account balance,  however this is not the 
type of account  Mr B chose to open,  opened  or had. Such  assurance did not apply for his 
account. Overall, I consider that IG was not obliged to stem Mr Bs losses,  contrary  to what  
he has asserted.
Risk Warnings
I do not consider  that there  is much more that needs  to be added  to the adjudicators  
treatment of this matter. It appears that Mr B accepts  the examples of warnings that the 
adjudicator referred  to. His argument that they were  not sufficiently prominent  is not 
persuasive. They were reasonably prominent, they formed parts of information he had to 
agree before being able to open his account  and, importantly, they were repeatedly provided 
across the terms and conditions for the account  and the website. In other words, I consider  it 
implausible that they could have been missed  or that Mr B missed them.
I also consider that the message(s) within the warnings were sufficiently clear. Evidence  of 
examples (from the terms and the website) includes the following:
With Spread bets and CFDs your losses may exceed your deposits.
All trading involves risk. Losses can exceed  deposits.
Ref: DRN22239133 Transactions carry a high level of risk and can result in losses  that exceed  your initial 
deposit.
It is possible to lose more money than you have deposited into the account.
I do not accept that the above examples can reasonably be said to be unclear about the risk 
of a customer losing more than the amount deposited or invested. I do not consider that Mr 
B was misled about this risk, evidence suggests that he was sufficiently warned about it and 
that he was (or ought  reasonably to have  been)  aware of it.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 27 July 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2223913