K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Wesleyan Bank  Limited  was irresponsible when it provided further 
business lending  to him.
background
Mr J had an existing business loan for £25,000 from Wesleyan which  he took in September  
2016. He took a further loan for the same  amount in July 2017.  He says that Wesleyan did 
not carry out affordability checks or take account  of his other borrowing. He thinks that it 
relied on his past payment record and a relationship  with his credit broker.  He is now in 
financial hardship.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Wesleyan 
had provided details of the credit checks it carried out, and had seen management accounts 
for Mr Js business. He did have a good  payment record and the broker was supportive but 
these were not the only reasons for granting  the loan. It was a matter for Wesleyan  to decide 
whether this loan was in line with its criteria. When Mr J had payment difficulties it had 
agreed a payment plan.
Mr J did not agree. He maintained that Wesleyan did not look at his exposure to other  
lenders. The agreement was not based  on sound credit  checking principles.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely  at the documentation supplied by Wesleyan about  this loan. As our 
investigator says it saw management accounts for the business and which showed 
borrowing of just under £97,000 in May 2017.  And its credit search in July 2017 showed a 
similar level of exposure. It had noted  the gearing of the business  and taken into account the 
profit and loss figures. 
I can also see that Wesleyan asked for specific information through the broker  about this 
further borrowing  application. It wanted to know whether this was for cash-flow  and why this 
had not been anticipated in September 2016 when  the first loan was taken. Ive seen a 
response from Mr J dated 7 July 2017 that explains that the first loan was for hardware. The 
further loan was not for cash-flow  but to rebrand the business and set up a website and 
improve the front office. He said that this was a huge opportunity  with a significant increase 
in fee income.
Mr J has provided  a schedule of his business lending  showing total borrowing of over 
£440,000. It is not dated and I am not clear  that all this borrowing  was in place at the time 
the further loan was taken. Im satisfied from the credit search and the information that Mr J 
had provided that Wesleyan  were not aware  of a level of borrowing of this amount at the 
time of the application. It did however note Mr Js strong payment record  and his credit score 
and what hed said about his personal  net worth.
Payments on the further  loan were  initially met but one due in November 2017 was not 
covered. The case  notes from Wesleyan state  that Mr J told it he had lost his largest  client 
and that he had foreseen this and had invested in rebranding the business. But that the 
Ref: DRN21614022revenue streams would not be seen until the following year. Payment arrangements were 
agreed. Clearly  Mr J has explained  that he has remained in financial difficulty.
Mr J had the benefit of these funds and, based on what he told Wesleyan, believed that this 
loan was affordable  for his business.  Ive not seen  anything that would suggest to me that 
Wesleyan ought  to have decided that this lending was unaffordable and that it acted 
irresponsibly. It reviewed relevant information  about  the borrowing as Ive set out and 
documented its decision. I dont see that it took undue account  of only historic information or 
the positive comments  from the broker. And I cant see evidence  that it knew  Mr J was 
expecting to lose income from a significant  client.
When it did learn of his financial difficulties I consider  it acted positively and sympathetically 
and agreed a repayment plan. So Im afraid I dont have a basis to find that it acted 
unreasonably in the way it provided and dealt with this business  lending for Mr J. I 
understand how disappointed Mr J will be by my assessment.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2161402