K820x#14complaint
Miss G says that after withdrawing  money  from a branch of Barclays  Bank  UK Plc she was 
followed out of the branch and robbed. She feels Barclays Bank UK Plc was responsible for 
this. 
background
Miss G brings this complaint on behalf of her and her partner, Mr S. Miss G went  in to a 
branch of Barclays to withdraw £2,000 from their joint account. While queuing to see the 
cashier she was approached by a member of staff (an Essential Banker (EB)) who said she 
could make a withdrawal of up to £2,000  at the self service machines in branch. The EB 
went with Miss G to the machines and also gave  her an envelope for the money.
After taking out the money, Miss G left the branch. CCTV later showed shed been followed 
out by two males,  who robbed her outside in the street.
Miss G says she hadnt wanted to use the ATMs  but felt pressured to do so by the EB. She 
feels using the counter  service would have been  more confidential and that, by using the 
ATM, she was more visible and less secure.  And she says before being directed  to the ATM  
she was asked what service she wanted  so other people in branch knew  shed be 
withdrawing money. 
She says the CCTV evidence showed  that the two males had been watching the machines 
and questions why Barclays werent aware  of this. She feels Barclays  was responsible for 
what happened and should now refund the money that was taken.
Barclays said it was sympathetic to what had happened  but the event had taken place 
outside of the branch so it couldnt agree it was responsible. It was part of the role of the EB 
to minimise waiting times  by encouraging customers use the ATMs so the staff member had 
been doing what was expected. It didnt agree shed disclosed the amount to be withdrawn  
and said the layout of the branch  meant  the counters and ATMs  were  in a line and were all 
equally visible so it didnt  agree the ATMs were less secure. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt feel Barclays  was 
responsible. It was part of the staff members role to assist customers  and reduce queuing 
so she hadnt  been doing anything unusual in offering the self service option.  And in this 
branch the ATMs  and the counters were  equally visible so she didnt feel they were  less 
secure or that this was why Miss G had been  targeted. Shed asked for a copy  of the CCTV 
evidence but Barclays no longer had a copy although it had given a full copy  to the police. 
The police hadnt been able to provide  a copy so she hadnt been  able to view it, only a 
written report. But this didnt change the outcome as the incident had happened  after Miss G 
had left the branch, and outside of the scope  of the CCTV. She understood why Miss G felt 
so distressed but in the circumstances she wouldnt  be asking Barclays  to make a refund.
Miss G asked  for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. She said, in summary, 
shed been taken out of the counter queue following a discussion on what service she was 
planning to use. Other people knew what she was planning to do and this made  her more 
vulnerable. She felt the CCTV evidence would  have shown  this as well as the way the two 
males were  acting in branch on that day and she was unhappy  it wasnt  now available.
Ref: DRN26936542my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this isnt the decision Miss G was 
hoping for but having done so, I wont be asking Barclays to do anything more as Ill now 
explain.
Miss G was targeted, followed and robbed of £2,000. I can see how distressing this event 
has been for her, and not just because of the loss of the money, and I dont underestimate 
the impact this must  have had.
But in order to ask Barclays  to refund this money Id need to see thats  it responsible in some  
way for what  happened. And having  reviewed the information I cant agree thats the case.
Miss G went  into the branch to make a withdrawal and while queuing was asked if she 
wanted to use the self service machines. Thats not uncommon although its always open to 
the customer to refuse and to continue to queue  if they prefer  to do so. And because not 
every transaction can be carried  out with an ATM, the EB first needs to check  what  service  is 
required, as she did in this case. Ive seen Miss G says she feels  this made her more 
vulnerable but this is all routine practice  and for that reason, I dont  consider it would have 
drawn any particular  attention to Miss G.
Its clear Miss G was taking out a significant sum but I havent seen anything to show  the EB 
discussed the amount to be withdrawn in Miss Gs case, only the maximum that could be 
withdrawn. In this case Ive seen the two amounts  were the same but its not clear how other 
people could  have  known this from that conversation.  For that reason  I dont  think using the 
ATM would in itself have  drawn any particular attention to Miss G. Ive also taken into 
account that in this branch the ATMs  and  counters  were lad out in a line and ,as such, 
equally visible. On that basis I cant reasonably  say that the ATM was any less secure or 
confidential or that this wouldnt have happened  regardless of which  option  Miss G had 
used.
Ive seen Miss G feels the CCTV evidence  would add weight  to her concerns but as Barclays 
has explained, it doesnt keep its CCTV indefinitely and doesnt now have  a copy. However  I 
dont think thats  unreasonable  in this case it had already provided a full copy  to the police. 
Its not clear why the police no longer have a copy but even if it were available I dont 
consider it would change the outcome. Theres nothing to show  the EB did anything unusual 
on that day or made a mistake. Further its not disputed that Miss G was targeted  in branch 
but the event took place outside  in the street and this wouldnt have been covered by the 
CCTV.
I realise Miss G will be disappointed by my decision but for the reasons given I cant  agree  
Barclays has done anything wrong  or that it now needs to make  a refund to Miss G.
Ref: DRN26936543my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint brought by Miss G on behalf of her and 
Mr S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2693654