K822xcomplaint
Mr H has complained about Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds decision to decline a 
claim he made under his Breakdown Repair Cover  (BRC) policy.
background 
Mr H bought a BRC policy through an agent  in June 2018. The underwriter of the policy  is 
Acromas. 
In July 2018 Mr H called Acromas for assistance  as his car had lost power. Its not fully clear  
from Acromas  notes  but it seems Mr H was advised  to take his car to a local garage, which  
he did. 
The garage reported to Acromas  that the actuator  had failed. Acromas arranged  for an 
independent engineer to inspect Mr Hs car. This happened in August 2018.  
The engineer reported that the fault with the actuator  which led to the turbocharger failing - 
was caused by a build  up of carbon causing  a blockage. In his opinion, the fault existed 
before Mr H bought  the BRC  policy. The engineer reported that Mr Hs car would have 
shown signs such as loss of power and possibly an engine warning light.  So the engineer 
didnt recommend Acromas meet the claim as he thought the fault had been  caused by wear  
and tear. 
Our investigator thought that on balance  it was unreasonable  for Acromas to decline Mr Hs 
claim. He referred  to two exclusions in Acromas policy: The significant exclusion read:
pre-existing faults are faults  that you have been made aware  of whether as part of 
your servicing, MOT  or through  any other repair. Or a fault you are already aware of
The general exclusion read:
the policy will not cover  any faults for repairs following a mechanical
or electrical  failure if the fault existed prior to the purchase of this cover.
It was the general  exclusion  that Acromas had relied on to decline Mr Hs claim. But the 
investigator found there wasnt  evidence to suggest  Mr Hs car had shown signs before his 
car suffered a loss of power which led to his claim. The investigator said that all faults 
develop over time and until theyre obvious  theres no sudden and unexpected failure.
So he thought Acromas should  pay £500 toward the costs of repairs and £50 compensation 
to Mr H for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused  him. 
Mr H accepted the investigators findings.  
Acromas didnt agree. It said its provided evidence by way of an independent engineers  
report to show that its decision was correct. There isnt any evidence  to contradict what the 
report said. Acromas  said it isnt correct for the investigator to say that all faults develop  over 
time. 
Ref: DRN27534932Acromas said the breakdown wasnt sudden as it was a result  of a build of residue over time. 
The breakdown wasnt unexpected as - in the opinion  of a trained technical  professional   
Mr Hs car would have been experiencing loss of power for some  time. It says reference  to 
its Terms and Conditions is irrelevant as this isnt Mr Hs complaint.
So Acromas  wants an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it was reasonable  for Acromas to obtain the opinion of an independent engineer  to 
inspect the fault reported  on Mr Hs car. I appreciate that this meant  it took longer for 
Acromas to reach its decision on his claim.
We look at the information  provided by both parties and take an even handed approach  as to 
whats fair and reasonable overall.  This includes taking into account what the policy says 
about its cover and exclusions - and whether  an insurer has fairly applied such  terms when 
reaching its decision.
Under its significant exclusions Mr Hs policy says Acromas excludes cover for faults  that he 
is already aware  of. Under the general exclusions Acromas says it excludes cover for faults 
which existed before cover started.  
I appreciate that the independent  engineer  is of the view that Mr H would have had signs of 
the wear and tear issue before he bought  the policy. But on balance I dont think theres 
enough to safely  conclude this. Mr H cant provide evidence to show  that something didnt 
happen. He said there were no symptoms before he suffered loss of power for the first time.  
However, the difference in mileage  recorded  between Mr H buying  the policy and making his 
claim was almost 700 miles.  This seems high if Mr Hs car had been losing power for some 
time before he bought the policy. Acromas checked  the MOT history of Mr Hs car. No 
related warning was reported for Mr H to be aware of. 
Its a finely balanced  case. I appreciate it would be difficult for an engineer  to pinpoint a time 
as to when the first loss of power  happened. Equally, there had to be a first time for loss of 
power to occur. I dont think the engineers  report is enough to persuade me that Mr H must 
have already suffered loss of power   and so certainly knew about  the fault - when he 
bought the policy a month before. 
So in this case, I dont think theres enough to safely conclude that Acromas decision to 
reject Mr Hs claim was reasonable.  Im therefore  upholding  his complaint. 
I think the fairest outcome  is for Acromas to pay up to £500 toward the costs of repairs 
inclusive of the £35 excess in line with the terms of the policy.  I think it should also pay Mr H 
£50 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience it caused  him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Acromas Insurance  Company 
Limited to do the following:
Ref: DRN27534933Pay up to £500 toward the costs of the repairs (inclusive of the excess) under 
Mr Hs claim.  
Pay Mr H £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Acromas Insurance  Company Limited  must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr H accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Acromas  Insurance Company Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr H a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2753493