K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited trading as Satsuma was irresponsible 
when it provided  him with a number of loans.
background
Mr R took three loans with Satsuma.  I've prepared  this table  from some  of the information it 
has provided about Mr Rs loans.
 date  
takenprincipal 
amountrepaidoriginal  
termcost of 
instalments
Loan  1 19/11/15 £300 05/02/16 26 weeks£22.10 per 
week
Loan  2 25/08/16 £600 10/01/17 52 weeks£22.96 per 
week
Loan  3 25/04/17 £100 28/04/17 6 months£31.60 per 
month
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld because he had problems 
managing money  which Satsuma shouldve known about. Satsuma doesnt agree  so the 
matter has come to me - an ombudsman - for a final decision.  If Mr R accepts my decision it 
will be binding  on the parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr R could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, the 
consumers income and expenditure, and - more broadly - what  Satsuma knew  about  Mr Rs 
financial circumstances. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern 
of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me point out that Satsuma was required to establish  whether 
Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. I accept that if loan repayments appear  affordable  
on this basis it might be an indication that a customer could sustainably repay the loan.  But it 
doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define  sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties. In particular  the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while 
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
Ref: DRN24778192the repayments . And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. So, whilst I note that Satsuma 
has told us in response to our adjudicators  assessment  that Mr R repaid all three  loans in 
full early which does  not suggest any concerns of sustainability  in repaying his loans, I dont 
think that necessarily follows. This is because  if Mr R was using his loans to repay  earlier 
credit or repaid his Satsuma loans by borrowing from elsewhere, that wasnt  sustainable.  
When Mr R applied for Loan 1 he declared a monthly income of £2,375. He also told 
Satsuma that his housing costs were  £420.  But he declared zero for financial commitments  
and other  expenditure. For ease of reference I've rounded the figures involved.
Satsuma says it did proportionate checks.  It has shown us that it did some credit reference  
agency checks and at the point Mr R took Loan  1 he only had one other payday loan 
outstanding. I note that Satsuma didnt accept Mr Rs declaration about his outgoings and for 
the purposes of its assessment it included some  additional figures for financial commitments 
(£664) and other expenditure (£690). This suggests that Satsuma  knew that Mr Rs financial 
circumstances were  not as hed declared.  It decided to use a figure of £1,774 for his 
expenses  considerably more than the £420  hed declared.
I accept that by asking  about Mr Rs income  and expenses and looking into his credit 
reference agency profile Satsuma had gone  some  way towards carrying  out proportionate 
checks. But it wasnt good enough to simply do the checks, Satsuma had to think  about the 
information it obtained and act accordingly.  So, although the information it obtained may 
have suggested  that the loan was affordable on a pounds and pence basis, the disparity  in 
what Mr R had said and what Satsuma learnt about his credit situation  shouldve led it to 
look further into his broader, recent credit history. If it had done this, it wouldve  seen  that his 
financial situation was a very poor one and that hed been  taking numerous  loans from 
different types  of credit providers. And I note that there were  negative credit markers  on his 
file according to the credit file Ive seen.
For example, Mr R had persistently gone over his credit limit on one of his credit cards  and 
been in arrears with payments in some  of the months before Loan 1. He also had a history of 
drawing down cash from that credit card  again  an indicator that someone may be 
struggling. I can also see that a default was recorded by Mr Rs current account  provider  
from August 2015  this was settled in early 2017.  
But even if Satsuma didnt  see those negative markers, I think  that its likely  it wouldve been 
aware  or should reasonably have been  aware, had it done proportionate checks - that 
Mr R had a substantial and very recent history of taking  payday and other  high cost short  
term loans. 
From what  Ive seen in Mr Rs credit file he juggled loans from at least  six of these lenders 
in the months  before  Loan 1. The amounts of the loans varied  sometimes they were  for 
£100 or £200. They often  exceeded £500 and sometimes  were over £900.
Mr R took a large loan of £3,000 in June 2015: it looks as though   from the dates  that he 
used this to repay earlier loans.  He repaid that loan in 2016. Later in June  2015  he borrowed 
£528 from a short-term credit provider  which  he repaid  at the end of December 2015. In 
August 2015 he borrowed  £950 from short-term credit provider: this was repaid  at the end of 
January 2016.  A month later he borrowed £100  from the same lender  and a month  after that 
a further £250  both of which he repaid at the end of December 2015.    In early September 
he borrowed  almost £500 from yet another short-term credit  provider (which was repaid at 
Ref: DRN24778193the end of December) and later in that month Mr R borrowed £750  from a different short-
term credit  provider. He repaid it on the same day he repaid Loan  1. In October Mr R 
borrowed over £400 from an earlier short-term lender  this was also repaid on the day he 
repaid Loan 1. 
Ive also had sight of Mr Rs bank  statements. I'm not suggesting that Satsuma needed to 
have asked for these.  But as Mr R has provided them, Ive reviewed these to see whether 
what I have gleaned  from the credit  report  is reflected in them. And it is. During this time 
Mr R was also relying heavily on a revolving credit  facility  he had access  to  from what I can 
see, he used this to avoid  exceeding his overdraft.
I realise that I've gone into some  detail about  the loans Mr R had taken before he took 
Loan 1. But this is because I want to explain why I'm satisfied that Mr Rs financial  situation 
was so poor that it wasnt responsible of Satsuma to provide him with any more credit. I used 
the word juggling above to describe how Mr R was managing his loans in this period. I can 
see that he was using loans to repay earlier credit providers and to plug the gap in his 
finances caused by repayment of earlier loans. This wasnt  sustainable.  So, I uphold Mr Rs 
complaint about  Loan 1. I dont find it surprising that Mr R missed some payments on Loan 1 
shortly after hed taken  it.
I accept that between repaying Loan  1 and taking  Loan 2 that there was a gap of around six 
months. I also note that Mr R had repaid Loan  1 early. These couldve been indicators of an 
improvement in Mr Rs financial circumstances. But had Satsuma done  proportionate checks 
it wouldve  seen that wasnt the case.  
Loan 2 was for double the amount of Loan 1 to be repaid  over double the term (52 weeks). I 
can see again that Satsuma increased the figures  disclosed by Mr R when it undertook  its 
affordability assessment.  This was most probably  again as a result  of the information from 
his credit reference agency search. And in these circumstances, I dont think Satsuma 
adequately considered Mr Rs wider credit situation.  
In early February 2016 it seems that Mr R tried to get on top of his debt situation. I can see a 
transfer from a family member into his account of £3,000. On 1 February all of this sum (and 
some more) was used  to make ten payments  to eight  different credit providers. A week later 
Mr R made  a further eight  payments to credit  providers (including Satsuma)  the total paid 
on this occasion  was around £2,250.
But as a result of all of these repayments,  Mr Rs current  account was once again  
overdrawn. This meant that he again  called on the revolving credit facility twice,  and two of 
the payday lenders hed previously borrowed from, before the end of the month.  And he 
hadnt actually  repaid  all of his loans either - some of which werent  cleared  until after Mr R 
had repaid Loan 3.
In April 2016 - four months before Mr R took Loan  2 in August - he borrowed £5,000  from a 
high cost credit provider: this was due to be repaid at around  £300 per month. He also 
borrowed £1,500  from a high-cost short-term loan provider that month. His pattern of 
reliance on the revolving credit facility  didnt diminish  in this period either. In the two months 
before Mr R took Loan 2 he drew down on six occasions  a total of over £2,800.  And in the 
weeks prior to taking Loan 2 he took three loans from lenders hed previously borrowed from 
 a total of £1,950.
Ref: DRN24778194This pattern of borrowing   whilst slightly different  to his earlier  one in that he was borrowing 
larger sums, less often  was still demonstrating  that Mr R was struggling to manage his 
money. In addition, Mr R was also repaying a debt collection firm. Had Satsuma done 
proportionate checks and interrogated  further his credit history and situation it wouldve 
realised that he wouldnt  be able to repay Loan 2 in a sustainable way. So, it was 
irresponsible to provide this loan and I uphold Mr Rs complaint about Loan  2. 
Mr R repaid Loan 2 in January 2017 and took Loan 3 about  three  months later in April. It was 
for a smaller amount  but again, had Satsuma done what  I think is proportionate  especially 
given that this was now Mr Rs third loan,  it wouldve  realised his financial situation meant 
that hed not be able to repay this sustainably either.  
Although Mr R had repaid  Loan  2 he still had numerous  other  credit  commitments in 
April 2017 including  loans  hed taken before, during and since  Loan 2. I accept that Mr R 
repaid Loan 3 very quickly, but it seems to me that hed taken it to avoid his current  account 
exceeding his overdraft limit. He then drew down £940 on the revolving credit facility and on 
the day he repaid  Satsuma (less  than a week after he took Loan  3) there were six other 
transactions to creditors  all for £100  or more and taking-up £875 of the sum hed just 
drawn down. He was still juggling his finances  and borrowing  to repay  earlier credit: a cycle, 
it seems, he was unable  to remove himself from.
As before, the provision  of credit to Mr R - even  a much lower sum, like Loan 3 - was not 
sustainable for him and Satsuma shouldve declined his application. So, I also uphold his 
complaint about  Loan 3.
putting things right
Satsuma shouldnt have  provided Loans  1, 2 or 3 to Mr R. So, to put things  right I require it 
to
a)add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mr R towards interest,  fees and 
charges on these loans
b)calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mr R which were 
considered as part of a) above,  calculated from the date he originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
c)pay Mr R the total of a) plus b)
d)remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Rs credit file in relation to these 
loans
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Mr R a certificate showing  how much  tax its deducted if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Rs complaint.  Provident  Personal Credit 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019. 
Ref: DRN24778195EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2477819