K820x#14complaint
Miss M says Coventry Building Society  (CBS)  mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Miss M bought the policy in 1993 at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. She applied  for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £200 a month towards Miss Ms mortgage  
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £12 a month. 
At the time,  Miss M told us she was employed  as a benefit assessor  (her mortgage 
application said she was a clerical assistant.)  She has told us she was entitled to 12 months  
sick pay and some redundancy  pay. She said she had critical illness cover but didnt have  
any other means of repaying her mortgage should  she be unable  to work. Miss M has told us 
about a medical  condition  she had in 1998  but as this post-dates  the sale (so it cant be a 
pre-existing condition) it appears Miss M was in good health at the time of the sale.  
Regarding Miss Ms sick pay entitlement   CBS has said that in 2006 Miss M told it she was 
entitled to six months sick pay. And I consider  this was likely her sick pay entitlement at the 
time  or at least the period she wouldve likely been  paid at full pay. 12 months full sick pay 
in my experience is very rare and specific  to certain specific roles  and employment 
contracts. Ive taken  this into account  in deciding this complaint.
CBS has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account closed in June  2007.
Miss Ms representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Ms representative says:
 
CBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means CBS should  have told 
Miss M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means CBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss M and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN21734652The information Miss M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1993 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in June  2007. That means  the unfair relationship  
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
Ref: DRN21734653The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like CBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Miss Ms case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so CBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Miss Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If CBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Miss M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether CBS gave Miss M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss M, 
I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss M and 
CBS, Ive decided  not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Miss M know she had a choice?
CBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN21734654Because the sale happened quite some  time ago  its also the case  that Miss Ms mortgage 
account has been closed since 2007  - CBS hasnt got all of the paperwork from the time of 
the sale. And this isnt surprising  business dont have to keep records indefinitely.
It has provided a copy of Miss Ms mortgage application. Looking at this I can see Miss M 
was asked if she wanted PPI in a separate section of the form and asked to tick one of two 
boxes  Yes or No. And there  is a tick in the Yes  box. I can see there is a mark in the No 
box  but the tick in the Yes box is bigger. So I think, more likely than not, the tick in the 
Yes box represents Miss Ms choice. Ive seen nothing within the mortgage application, 
which said or implied Miss M had to take out PPI.
Miss M was also required to complete a separate application to set the policy up. CBS hasnt 
got a copy of Miss Ms actual application,  but it has provided an example, which it says 
represents what Miss M wouldve seen and completed.  And Ive not seen enough to 
persuade me that something  different  happened in Miss Ms case. This form required 
completion of details such as the benefit  required and the applicant needed to sign this form. 
By having to complete a separate  application  I dont think the applicant wouldve been under 
the impression  that they had to take it out. 
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence  to the 
contrary, I think its more likely  that Miss M knew the policy was optional  and she agreed to 
take it out without  undue pressure. 
did CBS provide advice?
CBS says it didnt  provide  advice during this sale. Miss M hasnt said either  way. Looking at 
what happened when  CBS sold Miss M the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice  
Ive not seen anything to show  or suggest  that CBS considered  Miss Ms particular needs 
and circumstances  and expressed an opinion about the cover being right for her.
This means  CBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Miss M. Instead,  it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss M was given a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was unable  
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the approximate costs. 
Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Miss M would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be. I 
also think the benefit was clear  because this information had to be handwritten  on the PPI 
application I think Miss M was likely asked to complete.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  CBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost (I cant be sure this was clear  from the example  application  
because it appears  it might have been lumped together with any associated life assurance  
premium) or about the exclusions  or limitations  before  Miss M agreed to take out the policy. 
Ref: DRN21734655So I dont  think CBS gave  Miss M sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ms representative has raised a 
number of general points about  the requirements  on a business  when providing information 
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ms. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss M about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ms representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss M has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards 
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that CBS ought to have done  either. 
what effect did CBS  shortcomings have  on Miss M? To what extent did Miss  M suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that CBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Miss M. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Miss M would 
have still taken out the policy, had CBS done  things  properly. 
Miss M says she would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Miss M had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of her being unable  to work. 
Ref: DRN21734656As Ive found above, Miss M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Miss M thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Miss M has suffered any loss or detriment.  
I think the information Miss M was given about  the benefit of the policy  was clear. As I said 
above this detail was required to be handwritten in the relevant boxes on the PPI application. 
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations  and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss M knew  she would have to pay 
something for the policy I cant be sure from the available evidence  that CBS told her the 
exact premium at the point she applied for the policy (as I said above the application 
appears to have required a combined cost to be input in the relevant section of the form). 
Having said that, it seems likely Miss M would have been told the cost before the policy  
started and she paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the cost was significantly at 
odds with her expectations  at the point of sale, its possible she might have raised that with 
CBS at the time or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Miss M would  have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss M thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Miss M sought  
treatment or advice during the 12 months immediately before the start date of the 
policy, which recurred during the first 12 months  of cover; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss M 
wasnt a permanent employee; 
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss M be unable  
to do her own job and any similar job, which her experience,  education or training 
reasonable qualified her to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Miss M pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the 
policy wasnt as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss M from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to her should the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  Miss M wouldve 
been caught by any of the significant exclusions  she didnt have  any pre-existing medical 
conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think  she had some  good reasons 
to take the policy  out.
Ref: DRN21734657The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Miss M would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Miss M had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Miss M was unable (through  disability) to carry on her 
own occupation the chances  that she would be able to take up any similar occupation would  
also, in all probability, be limited.
CBS may not have  told Miss M that any claim she made would be limited  to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than I think Miss M would  have  received  full sick pay for and her 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Miss M would still have thought  a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Miss M be unable to work  in the circumstances covered 
by the policy.  The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time ensure her home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Miss Ms sick pay or redundancy money  for other use such  as other 
ongoing household expenditure.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss M would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what its likely she thought  she was getting and provided benefits that would help her 
manage the consequences  if she was made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Miss M would have  
taken out the policy  in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Miss Ms representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss M would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN21734658Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss M 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss M believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude CBS should  pay Miss M compensation, as that would  put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Miss M thinks CBS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of CBSs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why CBS failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  CBS gave Miss M, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1993 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ms representative  says a court might take if it 
were to find CBS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Miss M and about  the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that CBS had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss M in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it 
should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
Ref: DRN21734659Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2173465