K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA)  handled his 
home insurance claim for an escape of water at his property. 
background
During a bout of cold weather at the end of February 2018, a tap in Mr Ms neighbours 
house burst.  As his neighbour  wasnt at home  when it happened, the water escaped  over a 
period of time. Mr Ms house  was adjoined  to his neighbours house  and the escaping  water 
eventually penetrated his home causing  damage to the walls and floors downstairs  along 
with some of the contents. Mr M made a claim under his home insurance policy. 
RSA appointed a loss adjuster to handle the claim along with a restoration company to dry 
the house. The house was declared  dry on 23 March 2018 and the claim handed over to the 
loss adjuster the following  day. Other suppliers were  appointed to validate  the carpet for the 
hall, lounge  and under-stairs cupboard. The loss adjuster texted  Mr M a few days  later 
asking him to call it to discuss the claim.  The following day Mr M spoke to the loss adjuster 
and an appointment was arranged for the loss adjuster to visit the property on 5 April 2018. 
On 3 May the loss adjuster called Mr M to discuss the outstanding matters  relating to the 
claim. Mr M said it was now two months since the loss occurred but he was still without his 
carpets and replacement contents. Mr M said hed not heard anything for about  three  weeks 
and wanted to know what was going to happen,  and when, because  the mess and dust were 
affecting the health of his family. He also said hed like reimbursement of the electricity costs 
associated with the use of the drying equipment. The loss adjuster said he would escalate  
matters. 
The next day the loss adjuster called Mr M to say that a supplier had validated the carpets 
and noted that Mr M had accepted the settlement figure offered. It asked him to submit the 
electricity costs incurred along with a quote for the reinstatement  works.  The loss adjuster 
said it would  review the list of items beyond economic repair  and validate them. 
On 10 May 2018, Mr M complained to RSA that the claim  had been  going on for over two 
months; that he and his family had been  forced to remain in the house; that hed had to box 
up his undamaged contents  and store them; that hed had to purchase storage boxes; that it 
was next to impossible  to get in contact  with his loss adjuster; that the replacement  vinyl 
flooring hadnt  been authorised; that his familys health was being affected by the damp  and 
cold as was his pets and that hed agreed to accept a cash settlement for the carpets in an 
attempt to get matters speeded up. Mr M also said the amount hed received for the carpet 
was less than the quotes  hed obtained  so he was being forced to make up the difference 
himself; that he was unhappy  about having  to pay an excess on a claim that wasnt his fault 
and he was still waiting  to be reimbursed for the electricity costs. 
The loss adjuster contacted Mr M a few days later and said itd seen his email. The loss 
adjuster said it wanted to clarify that the reason the damaged vinyl hadnt  been included with 
the carpet settlement was because it was being considered as part of the buildings aspect of 
the claim because it was stuck to the floor, unlike the carpets. It said it was able to validate 
other items and issue settlement directly.  Mr M told the loss adjuster he understood. The 
same day the loss adjuster let Mr M know that it was cash settling the damaged  contents 
deemed beyond  economic  repair. Mr M accepted  the amount offered and the loss adjuster 
Ref: DRN27893882noted the only aspect of the contents  claim that remained  outstanding  was settlement for a 
few electrical items. 
About a week later on 24 May Mr M said he accepted the settlement for the carpets and 
understood that the policy excess was being deducted from the amount he was to receive 
(which was what accounted for the difference between what  he was receiving and the 
quotes hed obtained). The loss adjuster  noted that all aspects of the building claim were  
now concluded. The outstanding aspect of the contents claim (for the electrical items) was 
settled on 7 June  2018. 
RSA issued its response to Mr Ms complaint of 10 May 2018  on 2 June  2018.  It said that the 
payment of the policy excess was part of the contract between it and Mr M so it wasnt  going 
to reimburse it. It also addressed some further concerns recently raised by Mr M about his 
loss being the result of his neighbours negligence. It said that if it discovered a loss was the 
direct result of a third partys negligence or recklessness, then it could purse it for recovery 
of costs incurred. But it said here its investigation team had identified that the leak was the 
result of extremely cold weather not negligence or recklessness so it wasnt able to recover  
any costs because it couldnt hold Mr Ms neighbour liable. RSA noted that Mr M had 
recently spoken to its recovery team and provided  it with further information in support of his 
assertion. RSA said its recovery team was now making further  enquiries.  
Unhappy with RSAs  response,  Mr M complained to this service  in September  2018 about 
the hassle and delays hed been  caused, about financial losses hed incurred  of around 
£2,000 (mainly due to lost earnings),  the overall poor handling of his claim,  RSAs failure to 
return his policy excess and its failure  to pursue recovery  from his neighbour. He also said 
his dealing with RSAs recovery team had been subject to delays. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and recommended it was upheld in part. She 
didnt think RSA had unreasonably failed  to refund his policy excess  when  it had been  
unable to identify  any negligence or recklessness on the part of his neighbour. For the 
delays whilst Mr Ms concerns were with the recovery  team,  and his complaints about  delays 
in the handling of his claim, she thought thered been failings on the part of RSA.  So she 
recommended it pay him compensation  of £300. She didnt  think  that RSA needed to pay 
Mr M for any lost income or annual leave.  
Mr M accepted our investigators  findings but RSA didnt. It said its final response was dated  
2 June 2018 so any complaint about delays that occurred after that  whilst the recovery 
team were  considering Mr Ms concerns through July and August 2018  would need  to be 
the subject of a new complaint first as itd not had the opportunity  to review them.
Our investigator disagreed that RSA should  set up a new complaint. She also said her view 
wasnt only addressing  the delays in July and August 2018 but also those  that were un-
necessary and avoidable and came before the final response letter  along with the poor 
levels of service Mr M had received. 
I issued my provisional decision on this case in May 2020. I explained that I didnt think  this 
was a complaint  that I could fairly and reasonably uphold.  I made  the following provisional 
findings: 
Ref: DRN27893883my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld. Ill explain why. 
All home insurance  claims  attract a level of inconvenience for the policyholder. Thats  to be 
expected. Where an insurer, through avoidable actions or deeds,  makes an already difficult  
situation worse, then this service is able to award compensation. 
I can see that Mr M made his claim on 28 February 2018 and that it had been largely settled 
by RSA in a little under  three months,  by 24 May 2018, and completely settled by 7 June 
2018. By their very nature, escape  of water claims can be some of the more  protracted and 
complex claims insurers have to deal with. I dont think that a period of around three months  
from the date the claim is made through to its settlement is a particularly long period of time 
for an insurer to take to deal with a claim of this nature. 
I can see that the first month of the claim was entirely taken up with the drying  of the house,  
the certificate confirming  this being issued on 23 March 2018.  There was no delay in the 
claim being handed over to the loss adjuster or in it arranging to visit Mr M. After the visit 
there was no contact (that I can see) between  the adjuster and Mr M for about three weeks  
until Mr M phoned it for an update on 1 May 2018.  I can see that during this period the 
adjuster was preparing its report and completing  the costings for the (buildings) works 
surveyed. 
I think that, ideally,  the loss adjuster  couldve communicated with Mr M during this period 
even to let him know that everything  was in hand.  Understandably  Mr M was anxious  for his 
claim to progress. But the lack of communication didnt  mean  the claim wasnt  progressing  or 
was subject to delay. During that time the loss adjuster  prepared  its site visit report for RSA 
and costed out the works scoped  during  the visit. And I can see that when Mr M did contact 
the loss adjuster action continued on his claim  through to it being settled by 7 June 2018.  
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr Ms calls to the loss adjuster werent returned. In fact I 
can see from the evidence that the loss adjuster called Mr M back  on a number of 
occasions. So I dont  think that Mr Ms claim was the subject of any avoidable delays or poor 
service. And I can see too that some of the time RSA was waiting for information to be 
provided by Mr M (electricity usage  and contractor  estimates).
RSA issued its final response to Mr Ms complaint on 2 June 2018. That means I can only 
look here at any issues raised  by Mr M with RSA before that date. The aspect of his 
complaint that relates to delays he says occurred between June and September 2018 
following the re-instigation  of RSAs recovery teams investigation into the neighbours 
liability cant  be looked at by me here. Thats because RSA must be given the chance to 
investigate a complaint  itself first before it can be brought  to this service.  And as the delays 
Mr M says he experienced  occurred  after RSAs final response to this complaint, I cant  
consider them here.  
So looking  at Mr Ms claim from the date it was first notified to the date of the final response 
letter on 2 June 2018, I dont think I can reasonably say that RSAs  handling  of it was poor, 
or that it caused  any unavoidable delays, such that would warrant  an award of 
compensation. I know that this provisional finding will come as a disappointment to Mr M but, 
having reviewed  all the evidence, I cant reasonably conclude that RSA treated him unfairly. 
Ref: DRN27893884Mr M has also said he was out of pocket  for vets fees (due to his pets being ill), for the cost 
of storage boxes and for loss of earnings.  
Ive reviewed the vets invoices but cant see that they relate specifically to any shortcoming 
in the way RSA handled  the claim such that could allow me to reasonably  conclude  it should 
reimburse him for them.  
Im also unable to reasonably conclude from the available  evidence  that it was through a 
failing of RSAs  that it was necessary  to purchase  the storage boxes. I can see that the loss 
adjuster assessed  that there  was no need for Mr M and his family to move  into alternative 
accommodation. From reviewing the evidence available, that seems to be a reasonable 
decision for RSA to have  made as I cant see from any of the reports  that Mr M and his 
family were without the essential services of their kitchen and bathroom such  that they 
needed to be housed elsewhere.  Of course their home had been disturbed but that wasnt  
the fault of RSA. In order to consider making RSA reimburse Mr M for the storage boxes I 
would need to be sure that their purchase  was the result of some  failing by RSA or was 
claim related  for example, a failure to pay for alternative accommodation or off-site storage 
when it was needed or if the house wasnt  dried  quickly. But given  the house was dried quite  
speedily and given  the rooms that were affected, Im not persuaded that RSA should be 
made to pay for the storage boxes. 
In terms of the loss of earnings Mr M said he incurred as a result of having to take time off 
work to deal with the claim these arent something  that is covered by the policy. And I can 
see that relatively early  on in the claim  on 20 March 2018  Mr M raised  the issue of being 
reimbursed for lost earnings  with the loss adjuster and was told they wouldnt be covered. So 
I cant reasonably make  RSA reimburse  Mr M for these. 
It is part of the contract between RSA and Mr M that the first part of any claim  the policy 
excess  is met by Mr M. In the case of escape of water claims I can see thats  £325.  Policy 
excesses are a typical feature (for varying amounts) in most policies. I appreciate that Mr M 
feels that he is in this situation through  no fault of his own  that in fact it was the negligence 
of his neighbour that caused  his loss  but policy excesses arent payable based on fault first 
being established. They are payable regardless of fault and I cant reasonably  make  RSA 
refund Mr Ms excess when he has made a valid claim. 
The pursuit of any recovery  of costs is very much the decision of an individual insurer. It is 
up to it to decide what the prospects  of any successful  recovery  are and whether it wishes to 
pursue them. I can see that RSA looked into the issue of recovery  during March 2018 but 
took the decision not to pursue it. In its view the weather was the primary cause of the burst 
pipe. Thats a decision for RSA to make  and not one I can reasonably interfere with. I know  
that since RSAs  final response Mr M has provided  RSAs recovery team with further 
information. But for reasons already given, I cant look at that here. 
So with regret for any disappointment this provisional decision will cause Mr M Im not 
minded to uphold  his complaint. I dont  think that RSA treated him unfairly or unreasonably in 
the way it handled his claim. 
RSA replied to confirm it was happy  with my provisional findings. Mr M hasnt replied  or 
made any comment about my provisional findings.  
The complaint has been passed  back to me for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN27893885my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any substantive comment in response to my provisional 
decision my provisional findings  remain unchanged and now form part of this, my final 
decision. For the reasons I gave in my provisional  decision, Im satisfied that this is a 
complaint that cant fairly or reasonably  be upheld.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2789388