K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing  
with his claim under a legal expenses insurance  policy. He wants matters put right.
background
Mr N had a legal expenses insurance  policy with Aviva. Mr N had a claim he wanted  to bring 
relating to a dispute with the freeholder of his leasehold flat. He first contacted  Aviva  in April 
2017 and the claim  was considered by one of Avivas panel solicitors in August 2017 after 
Aviva asked for and received more information. Mr N complained  about  that firm, so Aviva  
instructed a second panel firm to assist in September 2017. 
The second  panel firm said that Mr Ns claim didnt have prospects of success  above  51% 
and asked for more  information. Mr N sent the extra information  about two months later.  
Shortly afterwards, his freeholder made  a claim  against him and Mr N instructed his own firm 
of solicitors to deal with the matter. Aviva refused to cover  the costs  of Mr Ns chosen 
solicitors as Mr Ns claim didnt have sufficient prospects of success  according to the second  
panel solicitors. 
Mr Ns chosen solicitors  disagreed and provided a written opinion, so Aviva  instructed a 
barrister to review the claim; the barrister said that the claim had prospects of success  above 
50%. Aviva agreed to cover Mr Ns legal costs from 30 January 2018  (the date when Mr Ns 
chosen solicitors set out its view of the matter). After this, there was some debate between 
Mr Ns solicitors and Aviva about  the hourly rate to be paid; Aviva  agreed to double  the 
standard rate and pay £200  an hour in February 2018 and this was agreed by the solicitors.
In April 2018, the claim against  Mr N was withdrawn and Aviva  increased the acceptable 
hourly rate to £317  for a Grade A fee earner and £126 for a Grade  D fee earner to match the 
court guidelines  rates.  The legal costs  were then reviewed by a costs assessor.
Mr N complained, and was particularly unhappy about the hourly rate paid by Aviva,  delays, 
and a failure to provide him with all the information he requested.  He believed that Aviva 
hadnt sent the panel solicitors all the information  and wanted  his legal costs prior to 30 
January 2018  to be covered by the policy at a higher  hourly  rate (as Mr N paid the shortfall).
Aviva said it understood  why Mr N went to his chosen firm and accepted  that, but noted that 
the terms and conditions of the policy still applied and had to be met to be covered. It 
explained that there had to be a positive view of the merits of the claim to be covered,  and 
this wasnt received until 30 January 2018.  
Aviva said that when non-panel solicitors were  used, the hourly  rate it would pay was subject 
to its own standard  terms (as set out in the policy), and it was reasonable to have costs 
assessed (and to rely on the expert opinion provided). It denied  not sending  the information  
Mr N requested, and said that it had been  sent more than once; Aviva  also denied  it caused 
unnecessary costs by seeking updates from Mr Ns solicitor, or delay. It didnt accept any 
disadvantage was caused to Mr N by telling  him incorrectly a lower  indemnity limit for his 
legal costs.
Ref: DRN22386752Mr N complained to us. The investigators view was that it was fair and reasonable for Aviva 
to only cover Mr Ns legal costs from the date when a firm of solicitors said the prospects of 
success were  above 51%; he also thought that it was fair and reasonable for it to rely on 
previous legal opinions. The investigator said that the increase of hourly  rate was fair and 
reasonable, as was the decision about recoverable  costs  based on a cost assessors view. 
He thought if Mr N wanted  to challenge this, he needed to instruct his own costs assessor. 
The investigator noted that Aviva  had sent Mr N a copy of everything it sent the panel  
solicitors and the costs  assessor, and all call recordings; he said that this was what  Mr N 
requested in Avivas  possession and was fair and reasonable. The investigator noted that if 
Mr N was claiming a breach of data protection law, the best place to bring such  concerns 
was the Information Commissioners Office.
Mr N disagreed. He said that the investigator had overlooked the time taken by Aviva  to 
progress matters and provide  information,  and its actions generally.  Mr N felt that Aviva  
hadnt complied  with its obligations  and the second panel solicitors  had been negligent. He 
reiterated his unhappiness in how his complaint  had been handled and his view that the 
issue with the first panel solicitor was irrelevant.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When I refer to Aviva, Im also referring to 
its agents. Mr N has multiple issues hes unhappy about; I've read and taken into account 
everything both parties has told this service, but I will focus on the core of the complaint  and 
wont specifically address every single point raised.  
I note that Mr N is unhappy about  how his complaint has been handled by Aviva, but 
complaints handling isnt a regulated activity that falls within  the jurisdiction of this service. 
But I can, and will, look at whether Aviva has generally acted fairly and reasonably.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. It hasnt rejected 
Mr Ns claim;  the dispute is really  about  how much of the legal costs  Aviva has paid.
Prospects of success/cover/delay
The policy terms say that if a claim is accepted, Aviva will appoint  a solicitor to assess how
likely the claim  is to win. It says the claim must  have  reasonable prospects of success which
it defines as being more  likely  than not to succeed . An insurer is entitled  to rely on legal 
advice, unless its obviously wrong.  I note that both in the policy and in the letters  from Aviva, 
Mr N was told that if he was unhappy with the initial review of the prospects of success, he 
should get his own legal  opinion and if necessary, Aviva  would  then instruct a barrister  to 
review that. But until the solicitors have the required information, they arent in a position  to 
give an opinion, and an opinion  may change in the light of further information.
In Mr Ns case, there was a delay in him providing information about his claim to Aviva and 
the second panel solicitor. I can see that, despite  the obligation being on Mr N to provide 
information under the terms and conditions of the policy, Aviva contacted third parties in 
order to help, and it seems Mr N was abroad in late 2017. And once the second panel 
solicitors were involved, they needed  further information, even after they gave an opinion 
about the prospects of success. 
Ref: DRN22386753Theres nothing within the requests  for information  from Aviva or the panel solicitors  that 
seem unreasonable, and I think Aviva acted in a timely way to progress matters. And I cant 
say from what Ive seen  that the second panel solicitors opinion  was obviously wrong  it 
was logical, based on the available evidence, was from a suitably qualified  lawyer and made 
the point that further information  would assist.  Mr Ns chosen  solicitors were advising in 
different circumstances with more  evidence available.
Aviva rightly  allowed Mr N to choose his own solicitor, who then provided on 30 January 
2018 a positive view of the prospects of success. This triggered the instruction of a barrister 
by Aviva,  who supported the view of Mr Ns solicitors. Aviva  acted  fairly  and reasonably  in 
relying on the professional views of the second panel solicitor  (its an insurer,  not a firm of 
lawyers) and then instructing the barrister in light of the opinion  of another  firm of solicitors  
(and accepting that opinion). This meant Mr Ns legal costs  were covered.
Mr N says all of his legal  costs should  be covered, while Aviva has only agreed to cover  his 
costs from 30 January 2018, the date when  it received the positive  legal opinion  from Mr Ns 
chosen solicitors. The policy  says that to be covered, a positive view of the prospects of 
success is needed; without it, theres no cover. So I think Avivas position  is fair and 
reasonable. No-one usually would choose to pay legal costs for a claim unlikely to succeed. 
So I dont  think Aviva should in this case.
Hourly rate/costs
But Mr N still has had to pay money towards his legal costs  as his chosen  solicitors charged 
more than Aviva would pay, and some of their costs werent covered by the policy.  I note 
that Mr N agreed to pay the shortfall.
The first point to bear in mind is that legal expenses insurance doesnt  cover every single 
legal cost  it doesnt  cover  the costs of updating  the client  or Aviva for example. This is 
because a solicitors  bill is split into various elements, and not all of these costs are 
recoverable under the rules dealing with costs  assessment. Costs assessment is a specialist 
and complex area. I think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to ask a costs  assessor to review 
the costs of Mr Ns solicitor and ensure that only the costs covered by the policy  are paid. Its 
also fair and reasonable for Aviva  to rely on that opinion and I note Mr N hasnt instructed his 
own costs assessor. He has mentioned getting  the court to assess  costs,  but thats  a matter 
between him and his solicitors, not Aviva.
The next point  is the hourly  rate paid by Aviva. The policy says if a non-panel solicitor is 
instructed, they must agree to Avivas standard  rates. But if the freedom of choice was 
restricted by Avivas hourly rates, this service  wouldnt accept this as fair and reasonable.
In Mr Ns case, his chosen  solicitors  werent  restricted to Avivas  hourly  rates. It first agreed 
to double its standard rate (which  was accepted by Mr Ns chosen solicitors),  and later 
increased further to the court guideline rates. I cant say that this was unfair or unreasonable, 
particularly given the terms and conditions of the policy  and Mr N exercised his freedom to 
choose.
Ref: DRN22386754Information
Mr N feels Aviva hasnt  provided the information  he requested. I think his key concern is 
about the costs  assessors file (which Aviva  instructed the assessor to send to Mr Ns 
solicitor; Mr N says his solicitor isnt responding to him). Aviva has sent all the information  it 
holds relevant to Mr Ns requests. And the vast majority of the costs assessors file will be 
from Mr Ns own solicitor; I note that it set out its view of the recoverable  costs to Mr Ns 
solicitor. I think  Aviva  has acted fairly  and reasonably, but if Mr N thinks  data protection law 
has been breached, he should raise his concerns with the Information Commissioners  
Office.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject  my decision before 
8 February 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2238675