K820x#14Im sorry  for the length of time its taken for the complaint  to reach  this stage.
complaint
Ms S is complaining on behalf  of the late Mrs W. Shes complaining about HSBC Life (UK) 
Limited because  she says Mrs W was mis-sold  a life insurance plan that she understood 
would pay her funeral  costs. In the end, the policy paid out less than the total premiums paid 
in and Ms S thinks thats unfair.
background
In 2004, Mrs W took out an over-50s  life insurance  plan that ended up being administered  by 
HSBC Life. It guaranteed a payment of £1,232  on her death. The monthly  premium  was £10 
until she reached the age of 85, by which time shed paid in more  than £1,500.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She said the policy was sold 
without advice and was satisfied the product  literature  was sufficiently clear about  how much 
the policy would pay out.
Ms S didnt accept the adjudicators assessment. She maintains the policy  was mis-sold, 
leaving Mrs W expecting  it to pay out more  than it did. She says its not fair a policyholder 
can end up paying  in more than a policy pays out and that this wasnt  explained.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions for much the same  reasons. Im not upholding it.
Before going any further, I offer Ms S my condolences for her loss at what  I realise  must  still 
be a difficult time.
Ive taken account of what  Ms S says Mrs W was told when she took the policy  out, which I 
understand she did over the counter at a post office.  But on their own and without additional 
supporting evidence, I dont think her comments are enough for me to say the benefits of the 
policy were misrepresented or that it was otherwise mis-sold.
I must also take account of the documentation from the time of sale. This includes Mrs Ws 
completed application and illustration, both of which  recorded the policy  benefit  would  be 
£1,232. I dont think either of these documents did anything to indicate the payout could be 
more than this. HSBC Life has also provided a copy of the policy  Key Features Document it 
says was issued  at the time of sale. This provides a more detailed explanation of how things 
worked and, under the heading risk factors , it says:
Depending on how long you hold your Plan your total contributions may be more 
than the life cover payable on death.
Mrs W didnt received  advice from a financial adviser before taking this policy  so there was 
no requirement to make  sure it was suitable  for her needs. Nonetheless, the insurance 
provider had a responsibility to make  sure the information it gave was clear, fair and not 
misleading. After reviewing the documentation  Ive mentioned above, Im satisfied  it provided  
sufficient information  about the policy and associated risks, including  that the total premiums  
Ref: DRN25085612payable might exceed the benefit. And that Mrs W had access to the information she needed 
to make an informed decision.
I understand why Ms S feels the policy was unfair. But its important to understand it was 
intended to be an insurance policy, not an investment. Its possible Mrs W could  have died 
sooner, as many other policyholders will have done, and in that case the policy would have 
paid out more than the premiums received. In the same way as with house or car insurance 
policies for example, some pay out more than others but that doesnt mean the contracts 
themselves are unfair.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Ms S and isnt what  she was 
hoping to hear. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  the policy was inherently 
unfair or that theres sufficient evidence for me to conclude it was mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2508561