K821x#15complaint
Mr W and Ms W have complained about  the way St Andrews  Insurance Plc (SAI) handled 
their claim under  their home insurance  policy after their property was hit by a car.
background
Mr W and Ms W owned a property which they rented  out. A car hit the gable wall of the 
property, causing  damage.  Mr W and Ms W made  a claim under the policy.
SAI arranged for its surveyor to visit the property. The surveyor  confirmed  that the car had 
caused some damage to the bottom  of the wall which  needed to be repaired. The surveyor  
also noted that the wall and chimney had a noticeable lean. However, he considered that 
this was most likely  historic and not caused  by the accident.
Having received the surveyors  report, SAI agreed  to provide cover for the damage to the 
bottom of the wall only. However, it said that the wall, due to the outwards lean, was 
potentially unsafe  and so Mr W and Ms W would need to arrange scaffolding  and repairs to 
the gable end and chimney before the repairs to the lower wall could be carried  out.
Mr W and Ms W complained to SAI about its decision not to provide cover  for repairs to the 
upper wall and chimney.  They also expressed concern that it had said the wall might  be 
unsafe whereas  the surveyor had said it was safe.
Shortly after Mr W and Ms W made  their complaint, exactly a month  after the accident, the 
top section of the external  brickwork of the gable  end collapsed  into the street.  SAI arranged 
for another  surveyor  to revisit the property.
Having received its second  surveyors  report,  SAI maintained  its decision  to decline cover for 
the damage to the upper  wall and chimney. It said the cars impact  had highlighted  an 
existing issue caused by a lack of maintenance. However, it agreed to pay £50 
compensation for the conflicting advice Mr W and Ms W had received  about the safety  of the 
wall. 
Mr W and Ms W were unhappy  at SAIs decision.  They referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  In his opinion,  bearing 
in mind the short period between the car impact and the collapse of the upper wall, the two 
events were related.  He considered that SAI should  settle the full claim for the cost of repairs  
and should furthermore pay Mr W and Ms W £100  compensation  for the poor service theyd 
received.
SAI didnt accept  the investigators findings.  It pointed out that two surveyors, along with its 
claims consultant, had visited the property and all had agreed that the damage to the upper 
wall and chimney was pre-existing and that the car impact had merely highlighted this issue. 
It referred to photos of the property from 2009,  before Mr W and Ms W had even purchased 
the property, which  it believed showed significant distortion to the verge and gable. It 
considered that Mr W and Ms W were  aware of these problems when they purchased  the 
property and while some  remedial work  was undertaken following the purchase, it had seen 
no evidence to show that this addressed the underlying structural  failings.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN20278362 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. 
The facts  are that a car hit the wall of the insured property and within  a month  the upper wall, 
which had been  standing for many  years, collapsed. On the face of it, it would seem likely 
that the two events are connected. The onus is therefore  on SAI to demonstrate  why it 
shouldnt be liable for this part of the claim.
SAI has provided evidence that the wall was leaning before the collision. I accept that this 
was the case.  There is evidence  that the wall may have had some  issues  as far back as 
2009. It is also the case that there  were no straps or ties to restrain  the wall, though there  is 
nothing to indicate that these were required under Building Regulations at the time the wall 
was built.
I accept that SAI has pointed out certain  problems  with the wall. But I consider the second 
surveyors report, which is the more relevant report because it was written  after the collapse 
had taken place,  stops short of stating  these problems were so severe  that they would have 
likely caused  the wall to collapse  at or around  this time, even in the absence of the collision.  
Indeed, the report does  not really address exactly why the wall had collapsed when it did.
SAI has suggested  that any damage from a collision of this nature is caused instantly and 
therefore there can be no connection  with an event one month later.  However, I havent seen 
any expert evidence  to support this theory.
In summary,  while I accept that there  were  issues with the wall beforehand,  I consider that 
SAI hasnt provided persuasive  evidence that these  issues were  so significant that the wall 
was in imminent danger of collapse before it was hit by the car. Therefore, bearing in mind 
the timing of the two events, I consider it was unfair for SAI to decline liability  for fixing  the 
additional damage which occurred to the wall after the collapse.
SAI has already issued  a payment to cover the cost of repair to the lower wall (less the 
policys excess). However, I consider that SAI should issue  a further payment to cover  the 
remaining cost of repairs to that wall. I further  consider  that SAIs handling of the claim will 
have caused some distress and inconvenience to Mr W and Ms W, for which it should pay 
them £100  compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc to cover the remaining cost of repairs  to the gable wall. I also 
require St Andrews Insurance Plc to pay Mr W and Ms W £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 May 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2027836