K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
20 November 2019, an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I 
wont repeat  that information here.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I didnt intend to uphold Ms Hs complaint. I said that 
for loans  one, two and three, it wouldnt have been proportionate for Uncle Buck to ask Ms H 
for the amount of information needed  to show the lending was unsustainable. 
I said that before loan four, Uncle  Buck shouldve taken steps to build a more  detailed 
picture of Ms Hs financial situation. As Ms H cant provide her bank statements, I couldnt 
say that Uncle Buck  would have seen that Ms H couldnt have made  the repayments for loan 
four onwards  in a sustainable way. I didnt think that the pattern of lending, in itself, indicated 
that Uncle Buck shouldnt  have lent to Ms H.
responses to my provisional  decision
Ms H said that Uncle Buck lent to her irresponsibly, as it was plain that she was borrowing 
more and getting further into debt as time went on in an attempt to repay these and other 
loans. She provided  a copy  of her credit  report.  
Uncle Buck  said that it had nothing further  to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision,  the information  a prospective lender can see from credit 
checks isnt in the same detail as Ms H can see from her own credit  report.  I appreciate that 
Ms H was struggling at the time but, based  on what Ive seen, I cant say that proportionate 
checks would have  shown  that. 
Ive looked again at the pattern of Ms Hs lending with Uncle Buck.  Im afraid I dont agree 
that the pattern of lending,  in itself, should  have  told Uncle Buck that it shouldnt have lent to 
Ms H. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms H but I remain of the view that I cant safely  conclude that Uncle 
Buck was wrong  to lend to Ms H. 
Ref: DRN22972392my final decision
For the reasons  I set out in my provisional  decision and those set out above, my final 
decision is that I dont  uphold Ms Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22972393extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Ms H complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
background
Ms H took out six loans  with Uncle Buck between December 2014 and May 2015.  Loans one 
to four were  payday loans, repayable  in one repayment. Loans  five and six were instalment 
loans, repayable over three, monthly repayments.  Ms H repaid all the loans. A summary of 
Ms Hs lending from Uncle Buck is as follows:
I understand that during  the repayment of loan six, Ms H told Uncle Buck  that shed  been
made redundant and couldnt afford to repay  that loan.  Uncle  Buck and Ms H agreed  
a repayment plan and Ms H repaid  loan six in October 2015.
Ms H says that Uncle Buck didnt assess whether she could  reasonably afford to repay 
the loans. She wants a refund of interest and charges.
In response to Ms Hs complaint, Uncle Buck offered to refund interest and charges 
in relation to loan four and pay interest on that amount. Ms H pursued her complaint.
One of our adjudicators  assessed Ms Hs complaint. He said that Uncle Buck  shouldnt  
have given Ms H loans four, five and six. The adjudicator said that by loan four, Ms H had 
shown signs that she was struggling to repay previous loans. He set out what  he thought 
Uncle Buck  should  do to put matters  right.
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with the adjudicator  and responded in some detail. In summary,  it 
said:
Ms H would be disadvantaged if it removed negative information about  some 
of her loans from her credit  report.
It doesnt agree that Ms H struggled to repay  loans one, two, three  or five.
It withdrew its earlier  offer in relation to loan four as Ms H said that she had 
additional rental income of £300  per month.
Ms H could  afford to repay  the loans.
Ms H told it during the sixth loan that she had been made redundant.
There are various reasons for the demand for high cost credit.
It carries out creditworthiness  assessments  and looks at information  from 
credit reference agencies in making its lending decisions.
Consecutive loans  dont automatically  mean that a customer is reliant on 
short-term borrowing.
It didnt lend irresponsibly.
Ref: DRN22972394As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant  rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should  have carried  out proportionate checks to make  sure Ms 
H could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable for the consumer.  These 
factors include:
    the lower  a customers  income  (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher  repayment from a particular  level of income);
    the greater  the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period 
of time during  which a customer has been given  loans  (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Ms H could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  Of 
course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make  repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments  without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Hs complaint.
In relation to loans one, two and three, given the repayment amounts, what  was apparent 
about Mr Hs circumstances at the time and her history with the lender at that point, I dont 
Ref: DRN22972395think it wouldve been proportionate for Uncle Buck to ask Ms H for the amount of 
information needed to show  the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the 
information Ms H provided  or the information  Uncle Buck shouldve been aware of, which 
meant it wouldve  been proportionate for it to start verifying what Ms H said about her 
finances.
Ms H didnt show any sign of struggling  to repay loans one, two and three.  For loan four, I 
think Uncle Buck shouldve taken steps  to build  a more detailed  picture of Ms Hs financial 
situation. Thats because, by then,  Ms H had taken out four loans  in quick  succession  and 
the amount she wanted to borrow  had increased  substantially.
Ms H cant  provide her bank statements, so I dont  know what  Uncle  Buck would have seen 
if it had taken steps to build a more detailed  picture  of her financial position at that stage. I 
appreciate that Ms H has provided her credit  report. The information  a prospective lender 
can see from credit checks isnt in the same  detail as Ms H can see from her own credit 
report. Based on what Ive see, I cant safely say that proportionate checks  before loan four 
wouldve shown that Ms H wouldnt have been  able to sustainably  make the repayments for 
loan four or the loans  that followed.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Ms Hs lending history  with Uncle  Buck. In the 
particular circumstances  here, given the number of the loans and the period  over which  they 
occurred, I dont  think that the point was reached where Uncle  Buck should reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful.
Considering everything, I dont think I can safely conclude that Uncle Buck  was wrong to 
lend to Ms H. So, I dont propose to uphold  the complaint.  
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my provisional decision is that I dont uphold Ms Hs 
complaint.
Ref: DRN2297239