K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has used the
compensation it worked out was owed  after he complained about  the mis-sale  of payment
protection insurance (PPI).
background
I issued my provisional  decision  on 9 September  2019. A copy of my provisional 
decision is attached  and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains  why I thought 
it was fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce  monies owed and left unpaid  
despite Mr D being discharged from his trust deed.  
Mr D didn't respond to my provisional  decision.  
RBS did reply. It said that in my provisional decision I had referred to the redress  being 
used to reduce  the outstanding balance on loan eight. This wasnt correct as it wasnt  offset 
against any particular  loan but was used to reduce RBS claim in the trust deed. 
I asked for further information about  this. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Mr Ds case, RBS wasnt able to give me a breakdown of the claim amounts for each 
account. But it has records to show that its total pooled  claim when  Mr D entered  into the 
trust deed was £26,655.07  as previously stated.
RBS has also said that upon checking its accounts  from when its claim in the trust deed was 
submitted, the amount outstanding was higher than the bank actually claimed for. RBS 
couldnt tell my why this was.
And it also noted it had received dividends on 14 November 2012 of £1,152.70  which  hadnt 
previously been  accounted for. It has now adjusted Mr Ds account to reflect  this amount. 
By RBS not having all of the information, and a dividend not previously being  accounted  for, 
I can understand why Mr D may not have confidence that RBS acted fairly. 
But despite  this, I would  like to assure  Mr D that I am satisfied RBS has acted  fairly  and the 
above doesnt alter my findings in my provisional  decision. 
Its still the case that RBS owed Mr D something but he owed it more.  RBS confirmed that 
the additional dividends now accounted  for wont have any impact  on the settlement as the 
money it received  from the trust deed and the dividends it received are not sufficient to clear  
the claim amount  of £26,655.07.
As explained in my provisional decision,  I must  apply an over-arching test of whats fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Ds complaint.
Ref: DRN27401852Having done so, and having  taken into account  the information RBS has given me since  my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair for RBS to use the compensation to reduce the 
money Mr D borrowed and didn't fully repay.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that its fair for
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to use Mr Ds PPI compensation  to reduce the outstanding
amount left owed and unpaid on Mr Ds borrowing.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27401853copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr D has complained about  the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has used the 
compensation it worked out was owed after he complained about  the mis-sale of payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr D took out a series  of loans with RBS between 1998  and 2005 and took PPI alongside them to 
protect his repayments. With each loan, he borrowed more to pay for the PPI and the cost was added  
to the loan.
In 2008, Mr D entered into a trust deed as he wasnt able to pay all of his debts when they fell due. 
This became  a protected trust deed in 2009. His protected trust deed ended in 2012, so at that point 
Mr D couldnt be chased  by his creditors for the debts  that were listed at the time he entered  into his 
protected trust deed. 
In 2013, Mr D complained  to RBS that hed been mis-sold PPI. In January 2014 RBS upheld the 
complaint and made him an offer of £15,664.03 in full and final settlement of all or any of his claims. 
The amount was broken down to £10,118.44 being the amount Mr D had been charged for PPI 
premiums and interest on those premiums.  And there  was the further amount  of £5,545.59 being 
compensatory interest (after  tax) which was added for the time Mr D was out of pocket. 
The acceptance form Mr D signed on 25 January 2014 said:
If I am subject to an individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA), Protected  Trust Deed, 
Bankruptcy or Sequestration, any payment will be made to the relevant  account I hold with 
you
I understand that the offer will take into consideration any arrears on my account.
RBS said Mr D still owed £26,655.07 when he was discharged from his protected trust deed. So it 
used some of the compensation to reduce the amount of money  it said was still owed. It used  
£10,118.44 to do this and paid Mr D the compensatory interest  by cheque payments totalling 
£5,597.04  the amount had increased between the time the offer was made  and when it was paid. 
Mr D has said he should have been  paid all of the compensation  not just the interest. None  of it 
should have been used to reduce any amount still owing. In short, Mr D said he no longer owed RBS 
anything as he had been discharged from the protected trust deed, so it wasnt fair for RBS to use the 
compensation to reduce the debt he was no longer  responsible for.
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and thought it was fair for RBS to use the 
compensation to reduce the debt. And the adjudicator explained the cost of the PPI wasnt the sole 
reason Mr D had entered into the protected trust deed, the amount he owed was significantly more. 
But Mr D disagreed, so the complaint has been passed  to me for decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of the case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4  R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account:
Ref: DRN27401854(1) relevant:
(a)law and regulations;
(b)regulators  rules, guidance and standards;
(c)codes  of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry       
practice at the relevant time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
RBS has upheld  Mr Ds complaint that the PPI policies  were mis-sold, so I dont need to make a 
finding on this point to decide whether they were.
Mr D doesnt have any issues  with the amount of compensation offered so I wont be look at this. 
Mr Ds complaint is that RBS has deducted  an amount from the compensation that RBS says is still 
owed to it to reduce the loan amount and hasnt  been  fully repaid. 
So in this decision, I will consider whether its fair for RBS to use the compensation Mr D is due for the 
PPI premiums he paid, in partial payment of a debt from which he was discharged in 2012.  
is it fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation for the policy premiums paid by Mr D to reduce  the 
outstanding amount on loan eight?
As explained, Mr D was in a protected  trust deed which  is an alternative to bankruptcy. It is a legally 
binding agreement between a consumer  and his creditors, which is administered by a trustee.
Mr D entered into a protected trust deed in 2008  and it ended in 2012.
There have been some court  cases about  to whom  PPI compensation  should be paid when a 
consumer had been  discharged from a protected trust deed. 
In July 2018,  the Supreme  Court issued a judgment looking at what  should  happen  to PPI 
compensation after a protected trust deed  completed.  The court case was Dooneen Ltd (t/a 
McGuinness Associates) v Mond [2018] UKSC 54.
In that court case, the Supreme Court said the PPI compensation should not be paid to the trustees 
for the benefit of the creditors and should be paid to the consumer. 
There is another case that is also relevant; this was Donnelly v Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc [2017]  
SAC (Civ) 1.
In Donnelly, the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation  to reduce a debt 
from which they were discharged when  the trust deed  came  to an end. However, this has been 
appealed by RBS  so the outcome may change.
Above, Ive explained I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  Im not bound to follow it. But, if I decide to depart 
from it, I must  say so and explain why.
In this case, I am aware of, and have  taken into account,  the relevant law. However,  I must apply an 
over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Ds complaint.
Having done so, I think its fair for RBS to use the compensation to reduce  the money  Mr D borrowed 
and didn't fully repay.
Ref: DRN27401855Mr D took out loan eight in November  2005. The loan was later written offer by RBS. At the time it 
was written off there was an outstanding balance.  This is money that Mr D wont  ever repay. 
The fact that Mr D entered into a protected trust deed   owing RBS £26,655.07   and was discharged  
from his debt when the trust deed ended,  doesnt,  in my opinion, make a difference  to what  is fair.
I think  it would be unfair to tell RBS to pay Mr D the PPI compensation when he doesnt now have to 
pay the borrowing which wasnt fully repaid. 
So it follows that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the outstanding 
balance that is owed on loan eight.
And I note RBS has paid to Mr D direct the total sum of £5,597.04 as compensatory  interest for the 
time he was out of pocket. It was RBSs decision to do this, which I think  is more than fair and to 
Mr Ds considerable advantage.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my provisional  decision is that its fair for 
The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc to use Mr Ds PPI compensation to reduce  the outstanding  amount  
left owed  and unpaid on Mr Ds loan.
So unless the comments and information I get by 9 October  2019 change my mind, I wont tell 
The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc to do anything. 
Ref: DRN2740185