K820x#14complaint
Miss R says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
Miss R bought the policy when she took out a loan over the phone in 2008. The loan 
included an amount to pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss R indicated on the loan agreement that she agreed to the PPI  separately to where  
she indicated that she agreed  the loan. And the PPI was described as optional. So, I 
think Barclays made Miss R aware  that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it out.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Miss R  and it seems to have been right for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She only had full sick pay for 
six weeks, so may have struggled to keep up with repayments after that time. While she 
may have been able to ask relatives  for help this wouldnt have been guaranteed,  
whereas the PPI wouldve  made  her loan repayments until she returned  to work. It also 
wouldve paid the loan for up to 12 months if shed  been made redundant. So, I think  the 
recommendation was suitable. 
The cost of the PPI was shown  including the amount of the premium,  the interest 
payable on the premium, the monthly  payment and the total cost. So, I think Miss R 
would have understood how much  the PPI would cost if she kept the policy  for its full 
term. 
Given how long the policy  could have paid out for, if Miss R made  a successful claim, 
she couldve got back quite a bit more than she paid for it. 
Miss R wouldve got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the 
policy early.  I dont  know if Barclays  thought about this when it recommended  the policy,  
or if it explained the situation clearly to Miss R. But I havent seen anything  to suggest 
she thought shed repay  the loan early.  So, I dont think this meant the policy wasnt right 
for her  or that better information about this wouldve  stopped her buying  it.
Ref: DRN24025012Its possible Barclays didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But Miss R 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss R because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss R about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Miss R, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss R has said. But these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss R.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss R any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2402501