K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage in 1995. 
In 1998 they took out PPI which  covered  Mr B for accident, sickness and unemployment and 
protected Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage monthly  repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  feel we should uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs B 
disagreed with our adjudicator. Mr and Mrs B have a number of concerns about the PPI sale. 
Amongst other things, they told us that the PPI policy  was added without their knowledge or 
consent and it wasnt something they needed.  
In response our adjudicators view they said that Halifax told them  when they took their 
mortgage out that having PPI would mean applications for future loans would  have greater 
chance of success.  And they dont  feel that our adjudicator has properly considered all the 
information theyve  sent us  including evidence that shows  Mr and Mrs B had savings, 
shares and a pension that Mr B couldve started  claiming if hed wanted  to. 
Mr and Mrs B asked  for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Although the PPI was just in Mr Bs name,  as Mr and Mrs B held the mortgage in joint names  
Ive looked at both their circumstances when the policy was taken out.  
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Heres why I say this.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  opt to have  PPI when their mortgage started. So I think that they 
wouldve understood that it was optional with their mortgage.  
A separate  PPI application had to be filled in if they wanted to take out PPI. And Ive seen 
the PPI application that Mr B completed  in 1998.  Mr B answered questions  to check  he was 
eligible for the policy. He filled in details  of the amount of monthly benefit he required. And 
he signed the completed form to get the policy. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mr and Mrs Bs home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage  payments werent  kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable cover. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs B mightve felt 
PPI was useful to have.  
Ref: DRN23063192Based on the information Ive seen, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs B decided they did want 
the benefits that PPI offered  even if they hadnt  wanted to take out the policy at the start. 
And, on balance, I find that Mr B chose to buy the policy, knowing it was up to him to say if 
he wanted to take it out.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. So Halifax had to give Mr and Mrs B 
important information  they needed  to know in a clear  way. And it shouldve taken reasonable 
steps to make sure the cover was suitable  for them. 
Mr B was eligible for the PPI. The policy covered Mr B for up to 12 months per claim in the 
event he lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. And the policy  wouldve also paid a 
monthly benefit if he had an accident or was too sick or disabled to work.  Repeat claims 
were possible  providing Mr and Mrs B with long term protection  for their mortgage whilst  they 
were paying  for their home.
The PPI paid out for longer than Mr B told us he couldve relied on his employer  paying  him 
a benefit if he was off work sick  and the policy paid out on top of work benefits. So it 
couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if Mr and Mrs B faced extra  
costs as a result of Mr B having an illness or a disability.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs B told us about their other means  including  
having life insurance, savings,  shares  and the option  to claim a pension early  if they had 
needed to do that.
Mr and Mrs B mentioned having a five figure amount of savings. But there was no guarantee 
that they would always  have savings  to rely on whilst they owed money  on their mortgage as 
everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. And it looks like Mr and Mrs B 
preferred not to spend their savings,  or they had other plans for that money, since  they didnt 
invest all their money in buying  the house  but chose instead to take out the mortgage. 
And it appears that they also had other loans around  this time - so it looks  to me like keeping 
their savings intact to spend on other  things  or to provide financial security  for the future  was 
important to Mr and Mrs B at the time.  Having  PPI meant Mr and Mrs B could depend on 
being able to continue to pay their mortgage  even without Mr Bs regular income from work 
without having  to draw  on savings.  
And Mr B wouldnt have been  forced  to sell any shares which I think  he probably wouldve 
either preferred to keep as a long term investment and/or sell when he could be sure of 
getting a good price. I think  that having  cover in place so he couldve continued to make  his 
monthly mortgage repayments without having  to sell investments wouldve provided a useful 
extra benefit  to Mr B if he couldnt work.  
PPI provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances to life 
insurance. The PPI guaranteed a monthly  benefit in the event of a successful  claim so that 
Mr and Mrs B could  continue to make their monthly  mortgage repayments during the 
mortgage term. And I think that having  insurance  in place so that Mr B could choose when it 
suited him to start taking a pension income was a useful  extra  benefit. 
So, I think the policy couldve  been  useful to them. Overall, looking at everything 
Mr and Mrs B told us about their circumstances,  I think that PPI was suitable for them.   
Ref: DRN23063193Mr B wasnt affected by any of the main  things the policy didnt cover. So, I think  it unlikely 
that having better information about the policys exclusions  and limitations wouldve affected 
his decision to take out the cover.
There was an indication  of the PPI cost on the PPI application Mr B filled in. Mr and Mrs B 
havent suggested that they couldnt afford the monthly premiums. And I think  Mr B wouldve 
signed an instruction  form to their bank to cover  the cost each month as the PPI was 
arranged separately  from the mortgage.  So it seems they were  happy at the time to pay to 
have the policy.  
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But I think 
Mr and Mrs B still wouldve decided to buy the policy for Mr B even if theyd been better 
informed as PPI gave them useful protection in their particular situation. 
So I dont  find theyve  lost out financially as a result of anything  that Halifax mightve done 
wrong. This means theres  nothing  Halifax needs  to do to put things right for Mr and Mrs B.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2306319