K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Miss F says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Briefly:
Miss F took out PPI at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  Both things happened by 
phone.
The policy provided  protection for Miss Fs credit card payments in the event she couldnt 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out a benefit  of 
10% of the outstanding card balance  per month and would  do so for up to 12 months per 
claim. It cost 79 pence for every £100 Miss F owed on the card.
At the time of the sale Miss F was employed and she said she was entitled to sick pay of 
three months full pay followed  by three  months half-pay. She said she had no other means 
she couldve  used to make her repayments  and she was in good health at the time.
Capital Ones records show Miss F paid around £160 in total for PPI.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Miss F chose  and agreed to take out the cover. And they said there was nothing to 
indicate it was wrong  or inappropriate for her. The adjudicator  added  that the offer Capital 
One made in relation to high commission and profit share was fair in the circumstances.
Because Miss F disagrees   albeit shes not said why she disagrees - the complaint comes 
to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Miss Fs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Fs complaint and my reasons are set out 
below.
did Miss F have  a real choice  about  PPI? 
did she agree to take it out?
Miss F says she was pressured to take out PPI.
Capital One doesnt have  a recording of the phone  call during which  it sold Miss F PPI. But it 
has provided a call script, which it says its representative wouldve followed with Miss F.
Ref: DRN22627712Without the call recording  I accept I dont know for certain what  was said during the call with 
Miss F and how PPI was introduced. But on the basis that the call script represents  what 
Capital One expected its representatives to use, its the next best evidence.  And looking  at 
this I think a customer wouldve understood they had a choice about PPI and wouldve been 
explicitly asked for their consent to add it to their account.
So, on the basis that Ive not seen enough to persuade me that something very different 
happened in Miss Fs case  Miss F hasnt  said why she felt pressured  to take the policy  out 
- I think more  likely  than not Miss F chose to take out PPI and she likely did so without  undue  
pressure.
the information   
Capital One didnt advise or recommend PPI to Miss F  the script doesnt  suggest it did and 
Ive not seen anything else which leads me to believe it did. So Capital One didnt have  to 
ensure PPI was right or suitable for Miss F. But it did have to give her enough  clear  and 
timely information about the cover so she could make an informed decision about  it.
Looking at the call script  I think  its likely there were gaps in the information Miss F was given 
 for example its not clear to me that Miss F wouldve been told the true cost of the policy 
and Im not persuaded that the significant exclusions and limitations of cover were  clearly 
brought to her attention.  So I accept  its possible the information Capital One gave Miss F 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  
But as I found  above, I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of 
cover. And based on her circumstances  at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for her - for example she wasn't affected by the significant exclusions on or 
limits to the cover - so it seems like it would have  been useful for her if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Miss F off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think Miss F has lost out to the extent that Capital One should pay her 
back all of the cost of PPI.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss F because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss F about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Miss 
F that was unfair.  
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss F has said - including what  shes said about her sick pay 
and redundancy  pay. But these points dont change  my decision. While Miss F might have 
been entitled to some employee benefits,  the policy wouldve paid out in addition to these 
and for longer if necessary.  And given the percentage benefit of the policy,  it had the 
potential to clear the outstanding card balance  in full. So for these reasons and those above, 
I think its likely Miss Fs decision  to take out PPI wouldnt have  been  any different had 
Capital One done anything more.
Ref: DRN22627713my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss F.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss F any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2262771