K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  about the sale of two protection policies sold to her by an adviser  from 
Lighthouse Advisory  Services Limited (Lighthouse ) in 2012. She says she was talked into 
taking out cover she didnt  need.  And when  she expressed concerns about the cost of her 
cover in 2015, the adviser suggested she take new policies out but this in fact led the 
insurer to cancel one policy  on the grounds  of misrepresentation. 
To resolve  her complaint,  Miss B wants the total premiums she has paid for the second  
policy to be returned  to her, with interest.   
background
In 2012, Miss B met with a Lighthouse adviser  to review her protection needs. She took out 
two policies with LV, a level term life assurance  policy with critical illness  benefit and an 
income protection policy. 
Miss B says at that time she already held an index-linked life and critical illness assurance 
policy with a sum assured of approximately £229,000  and a remaining 22-year term. She 
also had death  in service benefits  with her recent new employment. 
In 2015, Miss B approached Lighthouse  again as she wished to review  the cost of her 
policies  as these had increased  with the rate of inflation. The adviser said she may be able 
to apply for replacement policies  at a lower cost,  with the same  insurer.  
During the application process, LV determined it had cause to revisit the answers Miss B 
gave to specific medical questions when applying  for her 2012 policy.  As a result, it 
cancelled the 2012 policy on the grounds  of misrepresentation and returned Miss Bs policy  
premiums to her.
Miss B says she was upset with LVs decision and initially asked it to cancel  her other  life 
and critical illness policy as well. She said she only did this so that it would return  her policy 
premiums and she could  seek cover elsewhere.   
The insurer  refused to return the premiums.  After some protracted correspondence, it 
agreed to reinstate the policy for a reduced  sum assured of £29,500 and therefore a lower 
premium, which  Miss B had wanted.  
In 2018, Miss B reviewed her paperwork. It was at this time she says she realised the LV 
policy still contained life cover. Since  she had a term assurance policy  with a different insurer 
she felt LV ought  to have reimbursed her policy premiums in 2015  as she had asked for.  
A separate  complaint was made  to LV, and brought to this service. An investigator has 
issued a view on that complaint.  
A differing complaint  was also pursued  with Lighthouse, as it was referred  on by the insurer.  
Lighthouse said it wasnt able to uphold the complaint. 
In respect of the 2012 advice, it didnt  accept that the policy  Miss B held contained critical 
illness benefit, as the adviser  recorded it as being  solely life assurance.  Also,  the premium 
for that policy was £31 per month  which given the sum assured,  Lighthouse said it was far 
Ref: DRN28673922too low to include critical illness benefit (it estimated a premium  would be likely £100 per 
month more). 
Lighthouse concluded that the adviser had made suitable recommendations. Miss B didnt 
have critical illness benefit,  and she had a budget of £40 for a policy  after her income 
protection budget was used. It was a sensible consideration should she have been 
diagnosed with any listed illness. 
Similarly, the proposed  income protection policy was set up to provide Miss B with an 
income once her company sick pay ended should she fall unwell and be unable  to work. The 
adviser had recorded how Miss B was single  and entirely reliant on one income. Lighthouse 
said this was a reasonable  recommendation in those circumstances.  
Miss B brought the complaint to this service. She said that her main concern was with LV. 
However, she also said the Lighthouse adviser talked her into cover she didnt need  in 2012, 
and failed to identify that she remained of the same view in 2015.    
An investigator from this service issued a view on the linked complaint and concluded it was 
outside of this services  jurisdiction. 
A differing adjudicator  reviewed the complaint about Lighthouse. He initially concluded that 
the sale of the income protection policy was appropriate but the second policy  appeared to 
leave Miss B over-insured. However, upon review he felt that the critical illness  
recommendation was appropriate. He said this was because Miss B didnt have any cover  of 
that nature at the time of the sale, and the proposal  had been  within  her agreed budget.   
The adjudicator remained of the view that the life assurance recommendation was 
unsuitable for Miss B. He reiterated that she had no requirement for the policy given the 
provisions she already had, and coupled with the fact she didnt have  any dependants. He 
therefore proposed  that Lighthouse  ought to refund the proportion  of the policy  premiums  
that were assigned to the policys life cover to Miss B, with interest.   
Lighthouse disagreed. In summary,  it said:
it does principally agree that Miss B did not particularly require life cover that came 
with her term assurance policy;
however, its understanding is that LV does  not offer standalone critical illness 
insurance;
it takes the view that most providers of critical illness  insurance  will almost  always 
include life cover at a minimal (or free) cost, regardless  of whether it was required;
even if the adviser could have sourced a standalone policy,  there was no guarantee 
that the cost would  be less;
it believes that it was almost certain that the adviser could not have secured 
standalone critical  illness cover  elsewhere;
this is with particular  reference to its view that Miss B would have had premium 
loading because of her current smoker status;
it had now been able to obtain the breakdown of the premium between life cover and 
critical illness cover for Miss Bs term assurance policy;
the cost of the life cover was around  6.3% of the total monthly premium;
their past experience  indicates that the life cover  of such  a limited  value would not be 
available as a standalone  product;
Ref: DRN28673923LV was unwilling to remove life cover  from the policy going forward  because it would 
not allow a combined  product to be made up of more critical illness  cover  than life 
cover;
it remains of the same  view as its final response letter  the advice was suitable in 
addressing Miss Bs protection needs,  regardless of the fact that the policy provided 
life cover that was not a necessity for Miss B.  
Miss B had a number  of further comments. She said:
in correspondence  to our adjudicator Lighthouse claimed that in 2015 she reduced 
the term assurance sum assured without its knowledge;
this is a lie  Miss B says she contacted  the same adviser to state she wanted to 
reduce her monthly  premiums as she didnt  need  the life cover and felt she was 
overpaying for something she didnt need;
he said to leave  it with him and he contacted  LV and advised  her to reapply for cover;
it was following their advice that she reapplied in order  to reduce the monthly  
premiums and ended up being  refused one of the original policies by the insurer;
in light of the whole debacle -ultimately caused by Lighthouse  on two occasions- she 
still maintains that someone (either Lighthouse or the insurer) should refund her the 
whole of her premiums she has paid for the life and critical illness policy;
she does not need the policy proposed  by Lighthouse and she never did.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our adjudicator and the proposed  redress, though my reasoning  is slightly  
different. Nonetheless, I am of the view the complaint ought to succeed in part, as put 
forward by our adjudicator  in his revised  view.  Ill explain why.  
I realise Miss B feels strongly that her complaints ought to be looked at together. However, 
that isnt possible. A complaint needs to be made against a respondent business. In this 
case, Miss B took her insurance out through  a broker. So, any matters  relating to advice to 
take out her policies  (and subsequent advice)  relate to actions of the adviser  and 
specifically, Lighthouse as the business  responsible for the adviser. That is what  I will be 
making findings about here. 
The insurer,  LV, provided that insurance and had certain duties towards Miss B in terms of 
offering and maintaining her policies. Likewise,  Miss B was required (so long as she wished 
to maintain her policies) to pay her policy premiums and to make accurate disclosures on 
her application(s). So, some of the concerns  Miss B has now could only be directed to LV 
and these have  already  been looked  at by a differing investigator.  She determined that the 
complaint was made too late. If Miss B requires an ombudsmans  decision  on that complaint, 
she would  need  to ask for consideration as to whether  her complaint could be reopened.  
If Miss B wishes to cancel  her remaining policy that is a choice for her to make  I am not 
proposing that she does,  but I note Miss B has suggested during the course of this complaint 
she could not cancel her unwanted policy. The policy terms set out her rights  in respect of 
cancellation. Miss B may want to seek advice about  that before doing  so.  
Though Miss B wished  to keep her cover in 2015, what she says now is that she did not 
want or need it in the first place.  This is because it replicated benefits she already held 
Ref: DRN28673924through her employment, because she didnt have any dependants and at that time was 
living with her family.  
Having looked  at the suitability documentation  from the time of the sale, I agree with our 
adjudicator that it was reasonable  for the adviser  to have  recommended income protection 
and critical illness policies  to Miss B. 
I realise Miss B did not have a documented mortgage or other  financial liability at the time of 
the advice. But this doesnt preclude her from making arrangements  for insurance in the 
event she was to be unable to work, or develop  a serious illness in the future. Taking out 
such forms of protection policies is a sensible means of planning, particularly where policies 
are inherently cheaper when an applicant is younger. 
Though the income protection policy has now been cancelled  (and voided  by the insurer to 
treat it as it if never  existed),  the advisers recommendation  was fair. He noted Miss Bs 
sickness provisions in her new employment and arranged for the income protection  to begin 
at the time that her contractual sick pay would  have ceased. At the time the policy was in 
force, should  Miss B have  been off work due to illness, injury  or an accident,  shed  have 
been able to make a claim that maintained her income. 
Similarly, I consider that proposing a critical  illness  policy with a sum assured based on the 
remaining amount  Miss B could afford to commit to a policy  premium  was a reasonable 
suggestion. Miss B was recorded as having wanted  to ensure that she would be financially 
secure should she suffer a critical illness. Miss B says now that she was in good health at 
the time.  It was stated  in the documentation  that she wanted the peace of mind  that shed  
have some cover in place  within her remaining budget. The term of the policy took Miss B 
(who was currently aged 40) to her anticipated  retirement age of 60. 
Miss B signed a declaration  at the time of the advice.  She was also given cancellation 
information by LV, should she have changed  her mind at any time. 
It follows that I dont believe Lighthouses  adviser acted unfairly on unreasonably when 
suggesting protection policies for Miss B in the event she couldnt work  either  because  of a 
serious illness (leading to a possible  critical  illness  claim) or for a lesser illness, injury  or 
accident. Both of these  policies would, if premiums were maintained,  provide insurance  
against the loss of her income. And Miss B had a sole income at that time and was hoping  to 
purchase a property in the future.  
However, I do not agree with the reasoning  that it was necessary to sell her further life 
assurance cover  even  where the adviser had noted to include it was a matter of pennies. 
The type of policy Miss B held at the time of the advice was life assurance.  This did not 
appear to include  critical  illness benefit   the adviser recorded on the fact find and suitability 
documentation how she had a term assurance policy  providing  life cover. He also identified  
that she did not require any further  life assurance, noting that:
You have a life policy in place with Legal  and General that provides £229,079  of life 
cover on a level term basis  cover that runs for another  22 years,  we discussed this 
policy and the merits it offers,  as you are single with no debt it would  seem  that you 
do not have a need for this type of cover, however you said that you wish to keep this 
cover in force as you are aware that this type of cover costs more the older you 
Ref: DRN28673925become and that in the future you will get back on the property ladder and that you 
might have dependants in the future.
The adviser ran a whole of market quotation  search. Miss Bs chosen LV policy  was within  
her budget but noted as not being  the cheapest  it was chosen  because it offered cover for 
a wider range of conditions and it was cheaper on underwriting than a different policy with 
Legal & General, which had come back with a higher increased premium.  
However, the policies  searched included life cover, despite it having been  recorded that she 
did not need the cover it offered given she had significant protection in place already. 
Further, Miss B had no liability to protect  at that time, and no requirement to arrange for a 
second lump sum to be paid to her estate in the event she was to pass away.  
Lighthouse says now that to run a search  with critical illness  cover  of such  a limited value 
would not be available  as a standalone product. I disagree. I think it was likely that this type 
of cover was available as a freestanding policy at the time, and the information from the 
insurers searched at the time suggests  this. But even if I am wrong about that, I would 
expect the difference to have been  discussed with Miss B when a comparison  of insurers  
was undertaken.    
I also disagree with the argument Lighthouse  makes  about premium loading.  Underwriting 
for critical  illness cover will carry greater  loadings and exclusions than for life cover, given 
the likelihood of a policyholder developing a listed illness is greater than that of passing 
away during the policy  term. This would have had no bearing on seeking a critical illness  
policy without life cover  added rather than a combined policy.  
It was not a suitable recommendation  to propose  further life cover  for Miss B, and 
Lighthouse has confirmed in response to our adjudicator  how it accepts that view.
I can see that LV is not able to sever  Miss Bs policy, such that it could strip out life cover.  
Nonetheless, I agree that the adviser ought  to have attempted to seek quotations without the 
additional life benefit as it was not wanted or needed by Miss B. 
putting things  right
For the reasons  I have  stated I believe the best advice for Miss B at the time would have 
been a recommendation for a standalone  critical illness policy. It isnt possible for me to 
place Miss B back in the exact  position  she would have been in at the time of the sale in 
2012 if that had happened  she still has her term assurance policy which  includes a small 
proportion of the premium  going towards life cover.
However, Lighthouse has been  able to establish from LV the amount  of each monthly  
premium which was paid for the life cover element from November 2012 up to March 2019.  
We can supply a copy of this breakdown to Miss B if our adjudicator has not supplied  this to 
her already.  
Though the premiums for the policy have been paid to the insurer and Miss B has had the 
benefit of the cover,  she wouldnt likely have had additional life cover in place if correct  
advice had been given. So, I believe that Lighthouse  ought  to compensate Miss B as a result  
of the unsuitable advice.  The sensible resolution  to that is for Lighthouse to return  the 
proportion of Miss Bs policy premiums  which went towards the life assurance to her, with 
8% simple  interest.   
Ref: DRN28673926I dont believe that I ought to award compensation for the premiums going forward   
because Miss B can choose to seek cover elsewhere, should she wish to take out sole 
critical illness cover or end the cover altogether. As Ive set out earlier, she may wish to seek 
advice about that.
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint.
Lighthouse Advisory  Services Limited must refund all of the monthly premiums paid by Miss 
B from the start of the policy  until the calculation date in March 2019. Interest should be 
added at gross rate of 8% simple  per annum from the date each premium was paid, to the 
date of settlement.
If Lighthouse considers  it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest paid, it 
should issue a tax deduction  certificate with the payment. Miss B may be able to reclaim the 
tax paid from HM Revenue and Customs, if applicable.
I make  no other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2019.  
Jo Storey
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2867392