K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Scottish Widows Limited  cashed-in his income drawdown pension  plan 
prematurely. He said this resulted in consequential financial impacts such  as lost interest  on 
his fund, missed opportunities for efficient tax planning and foregone  options  for how to use 
his pot.
background
My starting point is to make clear what this decision will and will not cover.  I will be 
considering the complaint raised by Mr H with Scottish Widows in his letter of 9 January 
2019 about the cashing-in of his drawdown  pension plan.
Mr H has raised  other issues with us. For example, he has concerns about how his pension  
has been transferred  between  different providers  over time. Hes also mentioned a problem 
in 2018 when he says he was incorrectly informed  hed have to pay over some of his fund 
because hed reached the age of 75, he was 74 at the time.
This decision doesnt deal with these  matters. If Mr H wants  to pursue  them,  he must first 
approach Scottish  Widows and give it an opportunity to respond  formally. If hes already 
done that and its failed  to respond  satisfactorily, or at all, then this Service  may be able to 
look into whats happened as a separate complaint.
In responding  to my provisional decision Mr H set out in some detail why he thinks Ive 
mistakenly focussed Scottish  Widows  as being  the correct  respondent business. He says his 
complaint has always  been against  Halifax Life. Let me explain why weve set his complaint 
up the way we have.
Over time different companies,  products and brands have come under the umbrella of 
Scottish Widows. So, for example, when Mr H references Halifax  Financial Services the 
entity ultimately responsible for answering  his complaint is Scottish Widows. I can also 
confirm Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited was a name  previously used by Scottish 
Widows.
I know these matters  can be confusing. That said, Mr H has received correspondence over 
the past few years about his fund in which there  are clear footnotes to the effect  HFS is a 
trading name of Scottish  Widows.
So, to keep things  simple, Im going to refer to Scottish Widows throughout my decision. Im 
satisfied its the business  responsible for addressing  any acts and omissions in this case.
Mr H wrote to Scottish Widows on 27 December 2018. He set out his intention  to take the 
whole of his drawdown fund. He wanted  to know what the current  value was and about any 
formalities hed need to complete.
Scottish Widows  worked out the gross value of Mr Hs fund was about  £61,906. After making 
an adjustment for tax it paid around  £41,795  into his account.  It wrote  to him on 2 January 
2019 to tell him about this. His bank  received  the funds on 7 January 2019.  And he was sent 
a P45 with the consequent details  on 8 January 2019.
Ref: DRN29805202Mr H told us he didnt receive  this correspondence  until the middle  of January 2019. The first 
he knew about Scottish Widows making a payment  into his account was on 9 January 2019. 
When using his banking  facilities  he noticed  a significant deposit had been  made.
Mr H says his December  2018 letter had been an enquiry and he was waiting for the 
information requested  before taking a decision about  the future of his pension pot. He had 
other concerns, for example he wasnt confident about how the payment had been 
calculated.
Mr H raised a complaint  with Scottish Widows on 9 January 2019. It responded on 15 
January 2019  acknowledging things had gone  wrong. It said it shouldve read his letter from 
December 2018  more carefully  and that its own correspondence had included some figures 
which were incorrect.
To put things right it said it could reverse the encashment  of his policy if Mr H returned  the 
payment it had made. It also offered him £200  for any inconvenience  it had caused.
Mr H didnt accept the outcome  Scottish Widows proposed. He remained concerned about 
how the figures had been arrived at. He didnt think its proposal would put him back in the 
position he shouldve  been in. And he felt its offer of compensation for inconvenience  was 
inadequate.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Mr H disagreed  and so his complaint was passed to 
me to consider. I issued my provisional  decision last month. Mr H didnt accept what Id said. 
Im grateful  for the very detailed response  he provided. Let me first reassure him that I didnt 
find his submission discourteous in any way. I also appreciate his experience as a legal 
professional has instilled in him a healthy desire for thoroughness and accuracy.
I hope Mr H will forgive me in not providing a detailed response to all the points hes raised.  
Thats deliberate;  ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between  financial 
businesses and their customers. Ive considered  all the evidence  on file, but Ill concentrate 
my comments on what I think is relevant. So, if I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome.
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires. It allows me to focus 
on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters 
which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral to the complaint  at 
hand.
I note Mr H is on an extended  stay overseas at the moment  and doesnt have a fixed  date of 
return. Although  his response to my provisional  decision is fulsome and detailed, hes told 
me he doesnt have  access  to his papers so he may have made accidental errors on certain 
details and dates.  This is the case,  but I accept theres been no intention  to mislead me. Ive 
borne his situation in mind as Ive proceeded.
I dont see a compelling reason to hold matters  up further by delaying  my final decision until 
what could be the end of May 2020  and Mr Hs return  to the UK. I dont think that would be in 
anyones interest, as we wouldve passed into yet another tax year with the matter  still 
outstanding. I think I have all the information  I need to come  to a fair and reasonable 
outcome. Mr Hs latest representations  havent materially affected  my conclusions.
Ref: DRN29805203my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Mr Hs letter to Scottish Widows of 27 December  2018 he said:
I understand that under current legal provisions I am entitled to take the whole of my current 
draw down pension  fund. Please acknowledge this letter  of confirmation of that intention.
Please let me know the current value of the fund and advise of any formalities  necessary to 
complete the transfer.
You already have my bank details as you pay monthly drawdown sums  into it. Please take 
this letter  as confirmation that once  all formalities are agreed and finalised you can make  
payment of the whole  sum into that account.
I can understand how Scottish  Widows  jumped the gun here.  Arguably,  Mr Hs intent 
appears clear. However, it accepted it shouldve informed him of the value of his fund and 
that there  were no more  formalities to complete, prior to confirming the money  could be paid. 
I can see how Mr H mayve felt hed lost control of what was happening.
Had Scottish Widows  paused  to confirm the position  for Mr H this wouldve given him an 
opportunity to get to the bottom of the figures  hed been given for the value of his fund. In 
Scottish Widows  letter  of 2 January 2019  confirming it had cashed-in his fund and made  a 
payment to his bank  account, it said:
We can confirm that we have today sent a one-off payment of £61,906.03 gross
(£71,794.83 net) to your account. Please allow 3 - 5 working days for this to clear.
Scottish Widows  accepts  that the net value it provided in this correspondence was wrong. It 
shouldve read £41,794.83.  Its arguable the letter was also lacking in detail. Certainly,  Mr H 
was worried that hed been charged fees at the point of cashing-in his plan  which the 
investigator later confirmed for him wasnt the case.
Mr H says he didnt receive Scottish Widows letter until after the money had appeared in his 
bank account,  which he noticed on 9 January. He was worried  about such  a large deposit 
and tried to get to the bottom of what had happened.
Mr H says the advisers at Scottish Widows couldnt help him, aside from informing him about 
his ability  to raise a complaint. So the same  day he wrote it a letter of complaint, and 
contacted this Service.
Scottish Widows  contacted Mr H on 14 January 2019 to discuss  his letter  of complaint. Mr 
Hs recollection of the call isnt perfect. But theres no need for me to list the errors hes 
made. Thats because  theyre not material to my decision.
Ive listened to the call. The key points from the discussion  between Mr H and Scottish  
Widows are of note:
Ref: DRN29805204-The adviser informed  Mr H hed called about his letter of complaint. Mr H confirmed 
that since writing his letter hed received Scottish Widows correspondence  of 2 
January 2019  about the transfer of funds to his bank and of 8 January 2019 
enclosing a P45.
-The adviser acknowledged things hadnt  gone right and recognised this had 
undermined Mr Hs trust. He undertook to conduct a review,  in particular to 
understand why payment had been  made  on the strength of his December 2018 
letter. And to get to the bottom of any errors in the figures  provided.
-The adviser introduced himself  as representing  Halifax Life customer services, but 
following an enquiry  from Mr H later in the call about letters hed received about his 
fund and another organisation, the adviser  tried to explain  how the different business 
entities hed had contact with were part of the same group.
-Mr H made clear  he required a written response to his complaint. He also informed 
the adviser that he was leaving the country  on 20 January 2019 and wouldnt be able 
to access any correspondence  until the middle  of March 2019.  Theres wasnt a 
discussion exploring the possibility of sending  letters overseas or alternative 
communication arrangements.
Scottish Widows  followed  up the phone conversation with its decision to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint on 15 January  2019. This was under a week after hed submitted his complaint. 
And had things worked effectively, in good  time to arrive before his departure overseas. As 
well as offering him £200 in recognition of the inconvenience it had caused,  more 
substantively it offered to reverse  the encashment of his plan.
Mr H says he didnt receive Scottish Widows letter until 11 March 2019 upon his return to the 
UK. And I can see he sent it an email to this effect  that day. He also wrote to this Service to 
say that he wasnt  accepting Scottish Widows  offer of compensation.
In responding  to my provisional decision Mr H says he believed  the first he heard of any 
suggestion that a reversal of Scottish  Widows actions  was possible was when the 
investigator sent out in his view in September 2019.  He also says the investigator supported 
his complaint. So, he felt my findings were factually  inaccurate.
I appreciate that Mr H is currently unable to access  his papers. Im not expecting perfect 
recall of events which have now spanned  a couple of years. Nevertheless, I bring Mr H back 
to Scottish  Widows  decision  upholding  his complaint sent to him  on  15 January 2019, just 
one week after he lodged his concerns and which  hes acknowledged  receiving.
I think its offer to put things right was clear. At the bottom of the first page, it said:
We are willing to allow this encashment to be reversed if you wish. This would require the 
sum being repaid to us, and the policy would be put back to a point prior to any action that 
was taken.
Mr Hs recollection of the investigators view isnt quite  right either. He agreed that Scottish 
Widows had got things  wrong, but he concluded  that its offer to put things right was fair. He 
said:
Ref: DRN29805205I believe  the offer made by Scottish Widows is a fair one for the reasons outlined  above 
I cant see any evidence that Scottish  Widows have acted unfairly beyond the incorrect  
completion of the drawdown without your consent. Having considered everything, Im not 
asking Scottish Widows  to do anything further. I know this isnt the response you were  
wanting but I hope Ive explained  my reasons  clearly.
So, I agree  with the investigators opinion for broadly the same  reasons. Although  Scottish 
Widows got things wrong it acted within a week of Mr Hs complaint to try and put things 
right. And its proposal for doing this was reasonable.
In response to the investigators opinion, Mr H raised several  concerns about  the position  he 
now finds himself in. These fall into four broad areas:
- Taxation , for example  he was having  trouble reconciling details in the P45 Scottish Widows 
issued. Hes also trying  to understand the implications of this matter now straddling  two 
separate tax years.
- 75th birthday  Mr H reached  his plan retirement  date in July 2019. His pension  plan sets 
out requirements of him when reaching  this age, for example buying a secured annuity with 
the balance of his fund.  Hes worried hes lost opportunities that mayve been  available to 
him prior to this point and that restrictions could now apply.
- Lost growth in the fund  Mr H says he retained  the payment made to him in a zero interest 
account so that he could  transfer it back without restriction and as required. He feels  that as 
Scottish Widows  were  responsible for the mistake it should add interest to any reinstated 
fund.
- Trouble and upset  Mr H has told us about the impact of whats happened.  And he thinks  
the award Scottish Widows has offered in recognition of what it got wrong isnt enough.
I understand the points Mr H has raised  but I think theres a significant weakness in his 
argument. He was sent Scottish Widows final response to his complaint of 15 January 2019. 
The view of this Service is that its offer to put things  right was reasonable.
Some of the complications Mr H now faces  are the result of him not accepting  Scottish 
Widows proposal to put things right and the subsequent  delay in resolving matters. So, for 
example, his complaint now spans two tax years; he passed his 75th birthday during this 
period; and he didnt return the funds he received, instead keeping  them  in a zero-interest 
account.
Mr H says he offered to return the funds to Scottish Widows  I hadnt seen anything on file 
confirming this until his recent submission  in response to my provisional  decision. But in any 
event, he didnt pursue  this, despite the position clearly set out in Scottish Widows  letter  of 
15 January 2019.  So, this is an example of where  I dont think Mr H has acted in a way to 
mitigate some of the impact of what Scottish Widows initially  got wrong.
I think its more likely than not, had Mr H acted on Scottish Widows offer of 15 January 2019 
he wouldve been  put back into the position  he was in before his fund had been cashed-in.  
And that this couldve been achieved in the 2018-19 tax year.
Ref: DRN29805206I also think if Mr H had taken this course  of action,  he wouldve been  able to execute 
whichever option  hed wanted  to pursue for his fund,  either with Scottish Widows or with 
another provider  prior to his 75th birthday.
So, Mr H must bear some  responsibility  for the position in which he now finds  himself.
When Im deciding how to sort out a complaint like this, Ill think about whether its fair to 
award compensation for trouble and upset.  This isnt intended to fine or punish a business  
which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, a businesss recognition 
of the emotional  and practical impact can make  a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day  lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations.  For me to award compensation, I need to decide that 
the impact of Scottish  Widows  actions  was greater than just a minor inconvenience  or upset. 
I think it was here.
Mr H told us hes had to economise and live a more frugal life. And the situation has caused 
him stress and inconvenience. I dont doubt  any of this. But I also think things could and 
shouldve been  resolved  much sooner. So, on balance  I think  the £200 compensation 
Scottish Widows  offered him was fair.
Mr H says he may now need to seek professional financial and tax advice and he wants 
Scottish Widows  to pay for this. Its not clear whether  he sought advice prior to expressing 
his intent to seek  payment  of all drawdown funds. But I can understand why he feels he 
might need  to now.
Given my prior findings I dont think it would be reasonable  for Scottish  Widows  to pay for Mr 
Hs professional expenses.  People  in his situation,  when approaching  the maturing of a 
pension plan, will often seek financial advice and this comes with a cost to them. And as Ive 
mentioned he bears some  responsibility  for the complications that have emerged.
Mr H has recently  copied us in on some  tax advice and illustrations hes received from a 
qualified friend.  I hope  this will be useful to him as he plans ahead. But given my prior 
findings its not information  that is material to my decision.
Mr H has indicated a desire  to move to resolution of his complaint as quickly  as possible. But 
before agreeing to any proposals he appears  to be placing pre-conditions on this, for 
example securing certain written  assurances, including from third parties such as HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Im afraid its not the role of this Service to negotiate  between parties or act as a broker  in 
the way Mr H would seem to imply hed like us to.
As Mr H knows, Ive been in contact  with Scottish  Widows  to seek a bit more assurance  for 
him about what its offer from 15 January  2019  would entail. And how it could  now help 
address the situation Mr H now finds himself in. It told me (my clarifications in square 
brackets):
Our intention is to put the customer  back  in the position he would have been in, if the full 
encashment had not taken place. To re-instate, Mr H would only need to return  the net figure  
he received.
Ref: DRN29805207This [sum]  would be backdated  to the point of the claim allowing for any potential  growth  to 
be taken into account [i.e. up until his 75th birthday  the point at which  his plan wouldve 
matured]. The tax implications would then be addressed by us contacting HMRC with the 
details and re-claiming the tax. The policy would be grossed up/topped up by us.
We will provide the customer with the same options  he would have had at age 75 when  he 
returns the funds.
Mr H has chosen not to return the funds, which is potentially having  an impact on his tax 
position and his financial circumstances, however, this is out of our control and has been  
since we made our offer on 15 January 2019. He has made  the decision not to allow us to 
re-invest the funds.
I think Scottish Widows  proposal, which clarifies and builds on the offer it made in January 
2019 (less than a week after Mr H raised his complaint), is reasonable.
Im encouraged by Mr Hs note of 29 January  2020 to this Service  which ends I am 
content to begin the process  of reversing the earlier defective course of action. 
While I note his caveat  about securing what he believes are legally necessary confirmations, 
Ive no reason to doubt Scottish  Widows will honour  the resolution its already proposed. It 
seems to me that the best way forward now is for Mr H to enter  into discussions with 
Scottish Widows  to get matters resolved as swiftly as possible.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
I think the proposal Scottish Widows  Limited made in its final response to Mr H to put things 
right was reasonable. And its now augmented this to deal with some of the issues  Mr H has 
since raised.
Scottish Widows  Limited should give effect to its plan of redress  within 28 days  of receiving 
Mr Hs notice of his acceptance of my decision.
Mr H should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding  on all parties and he 
probably then wouldnt  be able to take legal action over this matter  for additional  
compensation.
If, however,  Mr H rejects my decision, although his legal rights will remain  intact, itll be 
purely a matter between  him and Scottish  Widows  Limited  as to whether its offer remains  
open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding  on the offeror after rejection of 
it has been communicated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2980520