K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 2002. Mrs M says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Mrs M took out the store card and PPI in a shop  but FICL  has taken responsibility for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs M says that there was no mention of PPI when she applied  for her store card,  and that it 
was added without  her consent   she says she shouldve been  given the opportunity to opt 
out. But I think that FICL made it clear  that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI, and that 
she chose to do so  although I can understand why she doesnt remember  this as it was so 
long ago. 
I say this because  FICL  has provided a copy of Mrs Ms store  card application   and I can 
see that the policy is presented as optional, and Mrs M has signed to select it. This is 
separate to her signature  for the card.   
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Ref: DRN26073622Claire Pugh
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2607362