K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. Debenhams sold the card and policy,  but FICL has taken 
responsibility for the sale and complaint.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mr H took out in 1997. It was added to his 
account when  he applied for the card in person.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I dont think FICL gave Mr H clear enough information about  the policy. I say this because 
I havent seen  enough evidence that FICL gave Mr H clear information about  the policys  
exclusions before  he took it out.
I think this would have  mattered to Mr H because he had a medical  condition  which  wouldnt 
have been covered. So he couldnt  have claimed on the policy for everything he expected  to 
be able to.
I understand that FICL  feels  Mr H hasnt provided enough information about his medical 
condition and how it affected him. Ive thought about  this but on balance  I dont  think  Mr H 
wouldve taken out the policy if hed been given enough information about the exclusions. 
Mr H has said this did matter to him and I find this plausible  in particular I note that he had 
limited other means to make payments if unable to work.  So I think  having the right cover 
wouldve been important  to him.
I dont think Mr H wouldve bought the policy if FICL had given him enough  information about 
it. So, I think Mr H has lost out because  of what FICL did wrong. 
Ref: DRN22089152putting things right
FICL should put Mr H in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Mr H would owe on his card if the policy  hadnt been  
added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr H owes  and what  he would  
have owed.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Mr H would have owed each month without PPI  Mr H 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr H wouldve 
owed FICL something on his card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.FICL  should tell Mr H what its done to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2208915