K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about the service  he received  from Santander UK Plc when his 
savings account  matured.
background
Mr W had a savings account  with Santander into which he made monthly payments by 
standing order from a current account he has with Santander. The savings account matured 
in November 2018.
Mr W says Santander sent him an email  in October 2018  saying it would contact him to 
explain his options  upon the maturity of his savings  account. He says it sent a maturity letter 
to his online document store but didnt send him an email to confirm it had done this. He 
complained about this to Santander.  It said it hadnt made but error but it credited  £25 to 
Mr Ws current account to cover any loss of interest  and in light of the generic response  that 
was provided to you previously regarding the account.
Mr W wasnt happy with Santanders response. It then said it couldnt provide evidence  the 
email was sent and this hadnt been sufficiently explained in its previous response. It 
credited another £25 to Mr Ws account  to compensate him for the inconvenience  hed been 
caused.
Mr W still wasnt happy and referred  his complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld because  he thought the 
compensation Santander had already paid Mr W was reasonable. Mr W didnt agree. He 
said Santander hadnt compensated him for loss of interest. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  Mr Ws complaint. He was able to access  the letter Santander had 
sent to his online document store so he saw the options available  to him when his savings 
account matured.  Im not persuaded  he would have suffered a significant  loss of interest if 
he didnt receive  the email  telling him the letter was in his online document  store. The first 
payment of £25 Santander paid to Mr W was clearly intended to cover  loss of interest  as well 
as other  matters.
I dont think Santanders  failure to send Mr W an email to say the letter  was in his online 
document store would have caused him material  trouble and upset. In all the circumstances, 
Im satisfied the sum of £50 Santander  has paid Mr W is sufficient to compensate  him for 
any loss of interest or trouble  and upset hes suffered and Im not going to require it to pay 
him any more.
Ref: DRN26041892my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2604189