K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent 
irresponsibly to him. 
background
In July 2018, Mr W borrowed  four loans  from Sunny.  His borrowing history is set out below: 
LoanDate 
TakenDate  Repaid Amount
1 18/07/2018sold to third 
party£200.00
2 21/07/2018sold to third 
party£100.00
3 26/07/2018sold to third 
party£300.00
4 29/07/2018sold to third 
party£200.00
As set out above, Mr W defaulted on each loan and Sunny sold the debts to a third party. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld in respect of loan 4. Sunny didnt 
agree with that view, so the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr W could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN22188162There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
As I said above, early  in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Sunny  to rely 
on the information Mr W provided to it. Looking at his declared  income  and expenditure, I 
think Sunny  would have reasonably concluded that Mr W could sustainably afford to repay 
his loans. 
However, by the time he applied for loan 4, I think Sunny should have probably asked itself 
more questions. I can see from the statements  of account that were provided  that Mr W had 
taken out loan 3 on the same day that he made  his first repayments in respect  of loans 1 and 
2. In addition to that, Mr Ws indebtedness had increased substantially within a very short 
space of time. He had that very short period, By the time he applied for loan 4, Sunny should 
have reasonably been on notice that Mr W was having financial difficulties. 
At this stage, I think Sunny should  have undertaken more checks and it would have been 
proportionate to undertake a full review  of Mr Ws financial circumstances. I note that Mr W 
did not make  any payments towards his Sunny  loans after 9 August 2018. Had Sunny 
undertaken that full review, I think it would have  seen  that Mr W would  struggle  to 
sustainably repay  his loans. For those reasons, I agree  with our adjudicator and I uphold the 
complaint in respect of loan 4. Sunny will need to take action to put things right.  
putting things right 
As I said above, it appears there  is an outstanding balance in respect of loan 4. If that is the 
case and Sunny sold the outstanding debt to a third party,  it must  buy it back if it can and 
then follow  the steps set out below.  If it cannot buy the debt back, it must liaise with the 
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined  below.
a)Sunny  must remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance of loan 4, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr W as though they had been  repayments of the 
principal on this loan.  If this results in Mr W having made overpayments then Sunny 
must refund these  overpayments  with 8% simple interest*  calculated  and paid on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. 
Ref: DRN22188163b)However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Sunny should  try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr W. It must not pursue outstanding balances  made 
up of principal it has already written-off. 
c)Sunny  must remove any adverse information  recorded on Mr Ws credit file in 
relation to loan 4.  
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. 
Sunny must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If Sunny and Mr W do agree a repayment  plan, Id remind Sunny of its obligation  to treat 
Mr W fairly.  
my final decision
I have partly upheld this complaint and Elevate Credit International Limited must comply  with 
the above putting things  right section. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2218816