K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the maturity value  of their Canada Life Limited mortgage 
endowment policy.  They  say the performance has been dreadful and needs to be looked 
into. They want Canada  Life to pay them enough to cover the full amount of the mortgage.
 
background
In a decision earlier this month I said we would  only consider part of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  
as wed previously dealt  with a complaint about  the sale of the policy in 2011. I said we would 
only consider Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about  the performance of the policy.
Our adjudicator had already told Mr and Mrs W that she didnt uphold  this point, and as 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree  I now issue  this final decision as the last stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W but I 
dont uphold this complaint as I agree with what our adjudicator said.
We dont regulate financial firms,  so I cant tell Canada Life how to run its business; thats a 
matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority. I can only uphold  this complaint if I think  its the 
fair and reasonable to do so, which will usually mean finding that Canada  Life has done 
something wrong. I dont  think  it has and Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs W and Canada Life entered into a contract. Mr and Mrs W agreed to pay a 
monthly premium and Canada Life agreed to provide life cover during the term. It also 
agreed to provide an investment which, if anticipated growth  rates were met, would reach a 
target amount.
This is where the problem has arisen. The hoped-for  growth  rates havent been  reached  - far 
from it - but they were never  guaranteed.  A shortfall  was always possible.  Of course,  no-one  
thought that would happen but it doesnt change the nature of the contract. 
Mr and Mrs W were sent 17 separate warning  letters between  2000 and 2017 which set out 
that the policy wasnt going to meet the target amount at any of the projected growth rates. 
So Im satisfied Canada  Life has kept them informed over the years,  rather  than it being a 
surprise when the policy came to mature earlier this year.  It may be the maturity value was 
less than was projected  over the years, but thats the unfortunate risk with a unit-linked  
policy as the value goes up and down  on a daily basis.
With hindsight Canada  Life might  have made  different  investment decisions.  I dont know.  
Its unlikely to have  been in the interests of the fund managers to perform badly and Im sure 
Canada Life would have  wanted the fund to do as well as possible.  I cant use hindsight in 
making a decision.  The fund performance has been disappointing but thats not unique  to 
this fund or this business. Investment conditions changed and many  policies  didnt reach 
their target amounts. I havent  seen  anything to persuade me that Canada  Life mismanaged  
the fund or acted  negligently.
Ref: DRN24340542The performance was disappointing and I can well understand why Mr and Mrs W feel 
unhappy about that. But Im not persuaded Canada  Life did anything  wrong  or that it would 
otherwise be fair and/or reasonable for me to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2434054