K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the life policy, critical illness policy and Income Protection Plan (IPP) 
he took out through HSBC UK Bank Plc which he says were  mis-sold. He also complains 
that HSBC failed to advise  him to stop the policies  in 2004 or 2007 when it carried  out a 
review.
background
In 2001 Mr T took out a life policy (the Navigator  Protection Plan  the NPP), a critical 
illness policy  (the Survival  Plan  the SP) and the IPP. At the time he was employed. In 2004 
his employment  status changed in that he became fully self-employed.  HSBC carried  out a 
financial review at the time but there was no change to these policies. Mr T stopped paying 
the direct  debits for the various plans in 2010.
I issued a provision decision on this complaint a copy of which is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.  In summary  I made  the following findings:
The complaint  Mr T made  to HSBC was on the basis  he thought the plans  were  PPI 
and were mis-sold.
I had seen no evidence that the SP and NPP werent  suitable  for Mr T. They would 
pay out of if he died or became  critically ill and payment wasnt  affected by his 
employment status.
The past decisions of our service Mr T had referred to were about PPI and didnt  
support his complaint about the IPP.
The rule Mr T had referred to (DISP App 3.6.2E) also related to PPI complaints and 
doesnt apply  to other types of insurance  such as IPP.
I wasnt satisfied the IPP wasnt suitable  for Mr T when he first took it out, at which  
time most of his income was from employment.
The only document HSBC has been  able to produce is a fact find from the 2004 
review and this doesnt suggest the adviser  discussed the change from employed to 
self-employed status.
HSBC hasnt suggested the adviser  wouldve discussed whether the change to self-
employed status wouldve affected  suitability  as its position is that the IPP provided 
cover whether employed or self-employed.
I didnt think the fact Mr T became self-employed made the IPP unsuitable. There are 
no specific terms that apply to someone who is self-employed  and the plan works the 
same whether employed or self-employed.
I didnt think the key features document was misleading because it referred to 
ongoing payments  from my employment will reduce the benefit.  Mr T knew  what  
type of plan he had and it was to replace lost income and I didnt think he could 
reasonably have thought he could make a claim without ongoing income from his 
trade or profession being  taken into account.
The fact an employed person  could receive  dividends without this affecting a claim 
when dividends Mr T received from his business  would be taken into account  meant  
there was a significant difference  between employed and self-employed  plan holders. 
Money Mr T received  from his business as a share of profits  is clearly  part of Mr Ts 
income and I think this wouldve been clear  to him. He could receive dividends from 
companies he had no interest in which  wouldnt  be taken into account the same as 
for an employed person.
The evidence that needs to be provided to show whether an income  is being  
received is different  as between an employed  and self-employed  person. But I didnt  
Ref: DRN29004322think the plan was unsuitable  because  it wouldnt  be as simple for him to provide 
evidence he wasnt earning  or that this wouldve led him to stop the IPP in 2004  if this 
had been discussed.
The key facts document  made  clear what evidence would need to be provided to 
show pre-accident earnings.
I wasnt satisfied on the evidence he had provided that he wouldnt have been able to 
show he wasnt earning if that was the case.  And if he continued  to receive  an 
income this wouldve  had to be taken into account as the plan made  clear   as it 
would for an employed person.
I had seen no persuasive evidence there was significant Goodwill or IP rights that 
would amount to income or that HSBC were  aware  of any particular complexity in his 
self-employed earnings in 2004  or 2007.  
Fluctuating income may have  made  it more appropriate for pre-incapacity  earnings to 
be calculated based on average earnings over three years  from 2007  at which 
point Mr T had been self-employed for three  years  if a claim had been made.
I gave both parties the opportunity of providing  further information and evidence  they wanted  
me to consider before making my final decision. HSBC said it had nothing further to add. 
Mr T didnt  agree with my provisional decision and provided a response  that included  his 
letter of 25 March 2019. I have summarised  what I consider to be the main points he has 
raised (aside  from those  in his letter which I have already summarised in my provisional 
decision) as follows:
The ombudsman service fully understands that its role is to stick up for the rights  of 
all people and is responsible for protecting the common person as shown by DISP 
App 3.6.2E which states it should  be presumed the customer  wouldnt have taken the 
policy out unless  there  is evidence to outweigh the presumption.
The ombudsman has a responsibility and need  to try and re-balance  the status-quo 
and recreate a level playing  field.
His policies were  reviewed at the time of the regulators Treating Customers Fairly 
(TCF) 2006 report which states  that the requirement of proof of evidence  falls on the 
bank not the common person. So he is disturbed my decision doesnt take account of 
the important  role the ombudsman has in protecting the common person.
The provisional decision time and again dismisses  the complaint on the basis  there is 
not sufficient evidence that HSBC  knew of the IP rights when there is clear evidence  
HSBC knew or shouldve known all the important  facts  and information.
The requirement of proof has fallen on him and not HSBC which  is legally wrong.
He is perturbed the ombudsman hasnt taken  account of the main points he has 
raised, not even  the references  to our own guidelines and bank regulations.
He has provided  detailed evidence of HSBCs knowledge of his significant IP which 
the ombudsman  has ignored and it is beyond  reasonable doubt that HSBC  was 
involved in advising on various  aspects of his business.
The ombudsman seems to be on the side of HSBC but his role is not meant to be 
that of a judge in a court of law.
It isnt his fault that the ombudsman is under time pressure and cant  consider all 
aspects and has to rush through things whilst shortening responses into a standard 
rejection notice.
It wasnt his responsibility to work out that as a self-employed person with significant 
IP and Goodwill in his businesss that he would have to close  them  in the event of a 
claim and would  get significantly less money.
Ref: DRN29004323If he had known there was little likelihood of a full claim being  paid there wouldnt 
have been any reason  to pay large  monthly sums to HSBC.
It was for HSBC to ensure the IPP continued to be appropriate for him when he 
became self-employed.
The fact that any claim would likely not have been paid is a matter  of mathematics 
and isnt subjective.
A self-employed  person has to prove  a negative  that they wont  receive any income  
in the future.
HSBC and Benefit  Offices are consistent  in what is required to show  a self-employed  
person isnt receiving  an income  which is very different  from an employed person 
who can continue to receive a worldwide income  including  dividends from shares in a 
company they are employed by.
The ombudsman has acknowledged that his letter  of 25 March  2019 has largely been 
ignored.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered everything  that Mr T has said but he has provided no new evidence or 
argument. In large part he has repeated what he had already  stated and I have seen nothing 
that would  lead me to change my decision,  so I am not upholding his complaint.
Mr T has made  various  references to what he thinks the role of our service  is. We are an 
impartial alternative dispute resolution  scheme. Our role is to make decisions about whether  
a regulated business has, or hasnt, done  something  wrong,  and if has the consequences  of 
that, on a balance of probabilities  what is more likely  than not  based  on the evidence that 
has been made available by both parties. The requirements of TCF do not mean that the 
requirements of proof of evidence falls just on the bank as he has suggested.
Mr T has again  referred to DISP  3.6.2E in support of what he has said. But, as I explained in 
my provisional decision, that provision relates  solely to PPI complaints because of the 
particular issues that arise with the mis-selling of PPI. It isnt relevant to his complaint and 
isnt evidence that our role is to protect the common person  as he has suggested.
Mr T has suggested  that in my provisional decision I acknowledged his letter  of 25 March 
2019 had largely been  ignored. But I considered all the evidence  presented  by the parties, 
including that letter. At no point did I indicate I had ignored any part of his letter. What  I did 
was summarise what I considered to be the main points he had made within  the letter. That 
doesnt mean I didnt  read the letter in full  which I did.
I also considered all aspects of his complaint and didnt make my provisional decision under 
any time pressure as he has suggested. If I have not commented  on a particular point he 
has made, or piece  of evidence he has provided,  it doesnt mean  I didnt consider it but that I 
didnt consider it was central to the complaint he has made. I am not required to comment on 
every point made by a complainant. A lot of the evidence Mr T provided showed he was 
involved in various  projects and businesss  at various times but doesnt establish the IPP 
was unsuitable  in 2004 or 2007  because  he was self-employed.
I have also taken account of the relevant regulations  and guidelines in reaching  my decision.  
I have not favoured HSBC over him as he has suggested, or ignored  the evidence  he has 
Ref: DRN29004324provided. I simply dont find his evidence persuasive  that the IPP became  unsuitable when 
he became fully self-employed as from 2004 or shows that it is more  likely than not he 
wouldnt have been able to claim under the plan if he had to stop work through accident  or 
illness.
Mr T has said it is a matter of mathematics that a claim wouldnt  have  been  successful and 
provided an example  calculation  to show this. But the figures  he has used  are simply 
examples and not based on any evidence of actual  earnings at any particular point. His 
calculations dont show that as matter of mathematics  a claim wouldnt have been successful 
and none of the evidence  he has provided shows this.
If there had been further discussion in 2004  or 2007  about what  he would need to provide to 
make a claim as a self- employed person Im not satisfied on the evidence that has been  
provided that it is more  likely than not this wouldve led him to cancel the plan. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have stated above  and in my provisional 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29004325COPY  POVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr T complains about the life policy, critical  illness  policy and Income Protection  Plan (IPP)  he took 
out through HSBC  UK Bank  Plc which he says were mis-sold. He also complains that HSBC  failed to 
advise him to stop the policies in 2004  or 2007  when it carried out a review.
background
In 2001 Mr T took out a life policy (the Navigator Protection Plan  the NPP),  a critical illness policy 
(the Survival  Plan  the SP) and the IPP. At the time he was employed. In 2004 his employment  
status changed  in that he became fully self-employed. HSBC carried  out a financial review at the time 
but there was no change to these policies. Mr T stopped  paying the direct debits for the various plans 
in 2010. 
HSBC didnt  uphold the complaint. In short it said the following:
The IPP was suitable  for both employed  and self-employed and covered Mr T until he was 65.
The NPP and SP provided cover in the event  of death or critical  illness and neither  was 
affected by employment  status and adequate steps were taken to inform  Mr T of the main 
features of the plans.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said that neither  the NPP 
nor the SP were affected  by whether Mr T was employed  or not and as his complaint  was about the 
cover being different because of his employment status  she didnt consider these  plans any further. 
She said that being on jobseekers allowance or registering as unemployed didnt  affect the IPP. And 
that the plan would pay out if Mr T was employed  or self-employed, although the calculation of what 
was payable was different. She wasnt persuaded that the documents he had provided showed that 
he wouldve had to close his businesss to get any payment under the IPP. She said the key point was 
the amount of income he is receiving at the point of payment under the plan.
Mr T provided an initial six page response followed  by a further 20 page response to the adjudicators 
opinion. I have summarised the points he has made as follows:
The only aspect of his complaint the adjudicator  considered was the IPP but he has 
complained his MPPI, commission and the failure to point out the much more onerous 
requirements for a claim for someone self-employed.
The adjudicator didnt refer to the previous  decision  by our service which  supported his 
complaint.
Unlike  an employed  person, a self-employed person has to go through  a process  to show 
they have no ongoing income  which  would  be very onerous for him as his self-employment  
was very complex.
In practice  he would  have had to close his business and sell any interest he had in any other 
business was involved in.
There is nothing to indicate whether the proceeds of sale of a business  would count as 
income.
Normal practice  by HSBC, as evidenced in the ombudsman decisions he has referred to, 
shows it requires self-employed people  to close their business to prove  they have no income.
His complaint is about the review of all his policies in two formal  meetings in 2004 and 2007. 
If one policy wasnt suitable he is likely not to have continued with any of them  as they are a 
package.
Our technical guidance explains that clear  explanations need to be given to a self-employed 
person.
DISP App 3.6.2E  is clear that there is a presumption the customer  wouldnt have  taken out 
the policy  unless there is evidence to outweigh the presumption.
Ref: DRN29004326A self-employed person  has all their profits and income  including  benefits from Goodwill  and 
Intellectual Property (IP) - from the businesss they have created  deducted from any claim. 
They are also forced to prove they wont have future income. The effect of this is that the 
business is likely to need  to close to make a claim.
This is different  from an employed person who can continue to receive income from dividends 
etc.
An employed person can also return to work whereas  a self-employed person cant as the 
business has had to close.
His MPPI and IPP plan were inappropriate  to his needs and HSBC  knew that.
HSBCs 2004 meeting  notes  show it didnt discuss the impact on his plans of becoming self-
employed.
HSBC dont accept there is a difference between employed and self-employed plan holders.
If there is a difference HSBC had an obligation to explain this - and it is clear that there are 
many differences and it was certain  that any claim  would be much lower if anything  at all.
HSBC were aware of his complex self-employment  and that significant  IP and Goodwill was 
being created.
The key features  of the policy are misleading as they state that incapacity benefit,  income 
support and investment  income wont reduce the payments and it is only in the detailed terms 
and conditions it is explained that ongoing income  from a trade  or profession and continued 
profit from a business will be deducted for a self-employed  person.
An employed person can invest in shares in the company that employs them  without that 
affecting a claim  whereas a self-employed  person  investing in their own company  will have 
dividend income deducted.
The need  to close the business to make a claim  is another big difference. It isnt 
unreasonable for HSBC to require  this but it needed to be clearly explained.
HSBC asked him to provide evidence he had built up significant Goodwill and IP when the 
adjudicator sent it his calculations showing he would be penalised  as a self- employed 
person. It is fair to assume it did so because it accepts that Goodwill and IP would impact the 
value of a claim.
His understanding  is that HSBC  are no longer contesting  that his self-employment  was 
complex and he had Goodwill  and IP but are relying on the fact he was given policy 
documents and is an educated person.
It wasnt his responsibility  to work  out if the plan suited his needs. If he had known  there was 
little chance of a full claim being  met he wouldnt  have  taken  out the plan.
As Mr T didnt agree with the adjudicator  the matter  has been referred  to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has also complained about a Mortgage Payment Protection  Insurance  (MPPI) policy  he took out. 
I am not considering  Mr Ts complaint about this as it is a form of payment protection insurance (PPI) 
which has specific issues and complaint rules which dont apply to other forms of insurance such as 
his NPP, SP and IPP. 
I note he has referred to the adjudicator not referring  to his complaint about the commission  HSBC 
received. There are two issues  about this. 
Firstly that isnt a complaint he made to HSBC at the outset and we are only able to consider a 
complaint where this has first been made to the business. Secondly he is referring to the case of 
Plevin v Paragon Personal  Finance Limited  (2014 ) which  was a case  that established that customers  
who were  sold PPI with high commission  may be entitled to repayment of some of their PPI 
payments. As I have already  indicated, the plans I am considering in this complaint arent PPI.
Ref: DRN29004327Mr T has provided a lot of documentation and comments in support of his complaint.  I have 
considered all the information provided  but I havent  commented  on everything as I dont consider that 
it is necessary to do so to reach a fair and reasonable decision in this complaint.  I have concentrated 
on what I consider  to be the main issues  in the complaint and the documents  relevant  to that. 
I note that Mr T has said that his complaint is about the review of his plans  in 2004 and 2007. But that 
isnt the complaint he made to HSBC. His complaint was made on the basis he thought  his plans were  
PPI and he completed  a PPI questionnaire provided  by HSBC when making his complaint and 
referred to the plans  being  mis-sold.
I have seen no evidence that the NPP and SP werent  suitable  for Mr T when they were sold to him. 
The NPP pays out a lump sum if he dies and the SP pays out a lump  sum if he is diagnosed with one 
of the critical illnesss set out. The change in his employment  status in 2004 didnt affect these  plans  
and isnt relevant to whether  a payment is made. Im also not satisfied that if any other plan wasnt 
suitable this wouldve  led Mr T to cancel the SP and NPP because they were part of a package,  as 
Mr T has suggested  he wouldve done. 
Mr T relies heavily on past decisions of our service - he has referred  to well over 20 - in support of his 
complaint. I am not bound by other decisions  made by us, as each complaint has to be considered on 
its own merits, although  I acknowledge  that it is important that we are consistent.
I have considered the decisions he has referred to and they all relate  to PPI - which his plan isnt. He 
has suggested that the decisions indicate HSBC requires  self-employed people to show that their 
business was closing down/was closed due to involuntary  stopping of trade. But having  looked at the 
decisions the requirement  to show trade had ceased was an actual term of each PPI policy and was 
related to claims on the policyholder  becoming  unemployed.  
The IPP doesnt provide  cover for unemployment  and there  is no requirement  within the plan to show 
that the business  of the plan holder had stopped trading or that they were unemployed.  In the 
circumstances the decisions dont provide any support  to Mr Ts complaint.
The plan is to partially replace income during long term absence  through sickness or injury as the 
policy document makes clear. But the policy  terms also make clear  that payment will be made  where 
the policyholder can only work  in a reduced capacity   in proportion to their reduction in earnings  as 
well. So Mr T could have made a claim  without having given up work  completely.
Mr T has also referred to DISP App 3.6.2E which  is one of the rules about how we deal with 
complaints set out in the regulators Handbook. But again this rule relates  to PPI complaints and isnt 
something that applies to complaint about other types of insurance such as an IPP. 
When Mr T took the IPP out in 2001 his income  was mainly from employment, although he had some 
income from consultancy work. Im not persuaded  that the plan was unsuitable  for his needs at that 
time or that the information  he was provided with wasnt sufficient for him to understand how the plan 
worked. 
I have considered what Mr T has said about the need for HSBC to make him aware,  on review in 
2004 or 2007,  of the differences between an employed  person  claiming under the plan and a self-
employed person claiming. 
I dont think it did have to discuss  any differences, no matter how small as he has suggested  or that if 
it didnt do so this means he wasnt able to make an informed choice. 
The only document  HSBC  has been able to provide from the 2004 review is the fact find. This 
provides some limited information of what was discussed.  Under the General Notes it states there 
was a joint meeting with the adviser, branch manager and Mr T:
Ref: DRN29004328who wished to arrange  a pension  for himself, check what cover  he had in place against sickness and 
ensure he put additional life cover in place to replace his death in service  cover as he has left his 
employment and is now a totally self-employed contractor.
And in a summary of Mr Ts needs, under Protecting your Income, it states:
You have an income protection policy in place  which  has a deferred period of 13 weeks until your 
retirement age at 65. I have highlighted that the amount of cover is currently for a higher salary than 
you are earning and therefore in the event of a claim  you would not be able receive the full amount 
you are paying forYou declined for me to complete an analysis of any shortfall  in cover you 
may have I recommend that you regularly review this area to ensure the policy matches your 
salary.
There is nothing to suggest the adviser  discussed  whether the change to self-employed status was 
something that affected the suitability  of the plan and I dont understand HSBC  to be arguing  there 
was such a discussion. Its position is that being  self-employed  didnt make the plan unsuitable  for Mr 
T as the plan covered self-employed people. On that basis I think  any meeting  in 2007 is also unlikely 
to have raised any issue about the plan being unsuitable because of Mr Ts self-employed status.  I 
note HSBC  has found  no evidence of a meeting  in 2007 but that doesnt mean one didnt take place, 
particularly given Mr T recalls such a meeting
I dont think the fact Mr T was self-employed  itself made  the plan unsuitable. I think the plan can 
provide suitable cover  for both employed  and self-employed people.  There are no specific terms that 
apply to someone who is self-employed. The plan works  in the same way for both employed and self-
employed people in that it replaces income  that is no longer being  received because of sickness or 
accident. Any ongoing income is deducted from any claim whether you are employed or self-
employed.
Mr T has suggested  the key features document is misleading as it is only in the terms and conditions 
that it is made clear  that ongoing income  from a trade or profession and continued profit from a 
business will be deducted for a self-employed person. 
The key features  document states that ongoing payments from my employment will reduce  benefit  
as will pension payments and insurance  payments. It states that Incapacity  Benefit and Income 
Support wont  and neither  will Investment Income.  Although the key features document refers  to 
earnings from my employment I think it is unlikely Mr T was misled.  
He was aware of the type of plan he had and that it was to replace lost income.  I dont think he can 
reasonably have thought he could  make  a claim  without ongoing  income from his trade or profession 
being taken into account.
I also dont consider the fact that an employed  person could receive dividends without affecting  their 
claim when dividends  Mr T received from his business wouldve  been taken into account  means  there 
was  a significant  difference between  being employed and self-employed. 
Money received from his own business as a share of profits is clearly part of his income and I think  
this wouldve been clear to him. He could receive dividends from other  companies he had no interest 
in. This would be treated as investment income in the same  as for an employed person  receiving  
dividends.
I accept the evidence  that needs to be provided if a claim is made will be different  as between an 
employed person and self-employed person and it may not be as straightforward for someone who is 
self-employed to provide  such evidence.  But the person best placed  to decide if they are going  to 
receive an income if they have an accident or sickness that prevents them from working is the 
customer. I dont think the plan unsuitable  because  it wouldnt be as simple for him to provide 
evidence he wasnt earning, or that this is something that is more  likely  than not to have led Mr T to 
stop the plan if the adviser had discussed this in 2004 or 2007.
Ref: DRN29004329The key facts document  made  clear that pre-incapacity  earnings are:
If you are employed  this means your pre-tax earnings for PAYE assessment purposes (excluding 
Benefits in Kind in the 12 months before  you became unable to work).
If you are self-employed this means your share of pre-tax profit  from your trade, profession or 
vocation for the purposes of Schedule D case I and II of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 
(i.e. your share of pre-tax profit after deduction of trading expenses)  in the 12 months before you 
became incapacitated.
So Mr T was aware  of what he would  need to produce to provide his pre-accident earnings. 
He has said that it wouldve  been difficult to show he wasnt still receiving  an income if he wasnt able 
to work.  But Im not satisfied  on the evidence he has provided that he wouldn't have  been able to 
show this - if that was the case. And if he continued to receive an income then this would have to be 
taken into account as the plan made clear and as would also have been the position  if he was 
employed and continued  to get paid. 
 
Mr T has referred to the complexity of his self-employed work and that Goodwill and IP rights 
wouldve had to be taken  into account and he wouldve had little or no value out of the plan.  He 
suggests that HSBC were aware  of the complexity  of his self-employed earnings. 
I have seen no persuasive  evidence that shows there was any significant Goodwill  or IP rights, or that 
this would  amount to income in any event. Im also not satisfied that HSBC  was aware of any 
particular complexity in his self-employed earnings in 2004  or 2007. He has referred to it arranging 
overdrafts for him but all this mightve  indicated  is that his income  was fluctuating rather than showing 
his self-employment was complex. 
Mr T has referred to requirements of the GISC,  comments of the ABI and also technical guidance we 
provide about plans such as the IPP. In short what he has referred  to simply shows what  the regulator 
requires of a business - such things as providing  information that is clear  fair and not misleading. I 
have seen no persuasive  evidence HSBC were in breach of its obligations. I would point out that 
HSBC didnt  have any obligation to keep the plan under  review.
I have taken account of what Mr T has said about his fluctuating income.  This may have made  it more 
appropriate for his pre-incapacity earnings  to be calculated based on average earnings over three 
years as from 2007  at which point Mr T had been fully self-employed for three years. I note this is 
an option that HSBC had available and if a claim had been made after 2007  I wouldve expected it to 
apply this if it was shown there was significant fluctuation.
In short Im not satisfied on the evidence that has been provided that the plan was unsuitable for him, 
or that he wouldnt have continued the plan if there had been some discussion about  what  evidence 
he needed to provide  about his earnings  in order to make  a claim. I dont think  its possible to say that 
it is more likely than not he wouldnt have got the money he expected from the plan if he had been 
unable to work through accident or sickness.
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  for the reasons I have set out.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2900432