K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement  with 
1st Stop Car Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory  quality. He wants  1st Stop Car Finance to 
pay for the repairs, or allow  him to reject the car.
Background
Mr H obtained a second hand  car in November 2017, financed through a hire purchase 
agreement with 1st Stop Car Finance. The finance was arranged through  a broker.
A few weeks  later, Mr H reported some faults   he said the handbrake was loose, there was 
a noise coming from the rear of the car, the ECU  light had come on, and the lens of the 
number plate was missing. The supplier offered Mr H a full refund, but Mr H agreed to the 
supplying garage  carrying out repairs.
In February 2018,  Mr H reported more issues with the oil sensor light,  the oil warning light, 
the engine management light and the oil pressure. He complained to the finance broker.  The 
suppling garage  offered  to inspect the car but Mr H declined   because he didnt want to 
drive the distance  to the garage. So the finance  broker arranged an independent report.
Following the report, the finance  broker concluded  that the faults werent present when the 
car was supplied, but were due to wear  and tear issues.  So it wouldnt cancel the agreement 
or pay for repairs.
Despite this conclusion,  the supplying garage offered to inspect the car to help Mr H make  a 
claim under the warranty. It carried out various  tests and repairs. 
Mr H remained  unhappy with the performance of the car and arranged for further  diagnostic  
reports. These showed there were  faults  with the car, so he complained  again  and the 
finance broker advised him to take his complaint  to 1st Stop Car Finance. It didnt uphold his 
complaint, concluding that the faults werent present when the car was supplied. So Mr H 
referred his complaint to this service.
Mr H is still reporting problems with the car. He says the engine management light keeps 
coming on and the door locking mechanism doesnt  work.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She didnt think  the 
faults reported in 2018 were present or developing when the car was supplied.  She said 
Mr H had accepted  the supplying garages  offer to repair the faults  which arose in December 
2017 and that the faults reported in 2018  were  unconnected.
Mr H didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
The car was faulty when it was supplied.
The garage repaired the differential, but the repair failed. The car doesnt  have any 
power and it judders.
The faults are still there and new faults are occurring each week.  He will have to pay for 
repairs if theyre  not covered under the warranty.
Ref: DRN25277662My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has reported a number of faults with the car and he has had substantial contact with 
the supplying  garage,  the finance broker and 1st Stop Car Finance. The car has been tested 
or investigated by a number of parties  on a number of occasions and various repairs have 
been completed or attempted. I have fully considered everything that has happened  here 
and everything both parties  have said. But I am not going to detail all thats happened or 
provide a comment on each and every  reported fault. This is because my role is to focus  on 
what I consider material to the outcome  of the complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  As such,  this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. 1st Stop Car Finance is the supplier of goods 
under this agreement  and is responsible  for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory.  As such,  in order to uphold this complaint I would have 
to be persuaded  that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
In deciding whether  a car is of satisfactory  quality, some of the factors  to consider are its age 
when it was supplied,  how much mileage the car covered  since it was supplied  and how long 
after supply the fault materialised. 
The car in this case was around seven years old when it was supplied in November 2017  
and its mileage was around  80,000 miles. I wouldnt expect a car like this to be free from all 
faults, as I would a brand  new car. Inevitably  various wear and tear issues  will arise.  But 
I would expect the car to be in a reasonable condition for its age and mileage.
Mr H emailed the supplying garage a few weeks after the car was supplied  and he had 
already phoned it several times  - to report some problems. He said:
The rear number plate light cover  was missing.
There was a noise  coming from the rear of the car.
The handbrake  needed adjusting.
The engine management  light had come  on.
These faults occurred so soon after the car was supplied that I think its most likely that they 
were present  or developing when the car was supplied.
In response, the supplying garage offered  to provide Mr H with a full refund   it knew  he 
lived quite some distance away and said it appreciated the inconvenience of Mr H having to 
return the car to it for repair. But Mr H was happy  to keep  the car and for the supplying  
garage to repair  the faults. It replaced the rear number plate light,  replaced the differential 
(which it concluded  was causing the noise), repaired  the handbrake, checked the sensors 
and the gears. It later replaced the differential bearing.
Ref: DRN25277663I can see that one of the diagnostic reports Mr H arranged identified that the rear brake pads 
should be replaced, and this was also carried out by the supplying garage.
So whilst the reported faults were probably present when the car was supplied,  Im satisfied 
that these were successfully repaired at no cost to Mr H. I consider this to be a fair and 
reasonable resolution.
Unfortunately, Mr H continued to experience problems with the car. In February  2018 he 
complained to the finance broker that:
There was a smell of burning, which he suspected was due to an oil leak.
The oil warning  light, the handbrake light and the engine management light were  all 
illuminated.
There was an oil pressure control malfunction.
The supplying garage offered to inspect the car but Mr H refused  he didnt want to drive 
the car all the way back to the garage.  So the finance broker arranged  an independent 
report.
This identified the following problems:
The car had a distinct lack of power  under acceleration.
Distinct clutch judder when taking off from stationary.
Both headlight washers were  not retracting back into the front bumper.
Two fault codes were  diagnosed   a nitrogen oxide sensor  fault and an oil pressure 
sensor.
I cant see that these were the same problems as those Mr H reported in December 2017,  or 
that they were  connected. So I dont think the faults identified in the independent  report  
mean the repairs the supplying garage  carried out hadnt been successful in repairing the 
faults which were present  when the car was supplied.
And the report couldnt conclude that the four faults  it had identified  were present when the 
car was supplied. It concluded that:
 The engine  performance was as a result of a fault with the oxide sensor. The report  
said that such a fault can occur suddenly and without warning as a result  of a sudden  
electrical failure.
 The clutch judder  was due to wear and tear and that there was no evidence presented 
to suggest the clutch suffered from a material failure with only general  wear and tear 
noted and therefore  this would  no impinge on the vehicle  and fit for purpose at the 
point of sale.
 There was nothing to suggest the headlamp issue was present at the point  of sale.
Ref: DRN25277664I need to place a degree of reliance on this report because it was completed  by an 
independent expert. Having  taken  its conclusions  and the other  evidence  provided by both 
parties  into account, I dont conclude that the faults were  present or developing when the 
car was supplied. Bearing in mind the car was second hand when it was supplied and that it 
had been driven  around 10,600 by the time of the independent report, I think  the faults  were  
more likely due to normal wear and tear.
It follows that I dont find 1st Stop Car Finance is responsible for the cost of any repairs.  And 
it isnt obliged to accept Mr Hs rejection  of the car.
Unfortunately, Mr H is still reporting  problems with the car. But, I dont find the current faults 
are connected to those  he reported in December 2017. And, now that hes been able to drive 
the car more than 24,000  miles since it was supplied, I think its very unlikely that any current 
faults can be evidenced to be present when the car was supplied.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2527766