K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that WAGEME.COM LTD (WCL), gave him loans that he couldnt afford to 
repay.
background
Mr E took 6 loans from WCL between  June 2015  and September 2015 as follows:-
Loan number Date of Loan Loan repayment (including 
initial interest amount)  Date repaid
1. 3/6/2015 £109.60 15/6/2015
2. 29/6/2015 £225.60 15/7/2015
3. 27/7/2015 £343.20 14/8/2015
4. 17/8/2015 £254 18/8/2015
5. 29/8/2015 £454.40 15/9/2015
6. 28/9/2015 £400 plus interest (unknown) Unpaid
Mr E said that he was using other payday loans  when  he borrowed from WCL. The loans 
trapped him in a debt spiral and each month he had to continue to borrow in order  to live. 
Mr E said that if WCL had carried out more checks,  it would have seen that its loans werent  
suitable for him.
WCL said that it had checked Mr Es bank statement at the time of Loan 1 and had spoken 
to him before  other loans  to check that his circumstances hadnt changed. It had carried  out 
a credit check but it hasnt  provided the results  of its credit checks to this service. WCL said 
that it requests  a new bank statement every six months. It also takes into account  its records 
of previous dealings with the borrower.  WCL also said that it conducts  its assessments 
based on the borrowers declared budgeted income  and expenditure and credit report. 
The adjudicator concluded that WCL hadnt made sufficient  checks for Loans 5 and 6. If it 
had done so, it would have found  that these  loans were unaffordable.  She recommended  
that WCL should:-
-Refund all interest  and charges that Mr E paid on Loans 5 and 6;
-Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*;
-Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  on Loans 5 and 6 and apply the refund to 
reduce any capital outstanding and pay any balance to Mr E;
-Remove any negative  information about Loans  5 and 6 Mr Es credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WCL to take off tax from this interest. WCL
must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If
WCL intends to apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  capital balance,  it must do so 
after deducting the tax.
WCL hasnt provided  a response  to the adjudicators view.
Mr E disagreed and responded  to say that appropriate  checks  hadnt been  made.  He 
disagreed with the adjudicators assessment with regard to Loans 1 to 4. He queried what 
information had been used to assess affordability. He also couldnt remember sending  his 
bank statement to WCL.
Ref: DRN27497542The adjudicator said that WCLs internal notes showed a record of it having seen 
Mr Es bank  statement  before Loan 1 and that the notes showed Mr Es income  and 
expenditure. She had reviewed Mr Es bank statements and said that the information WCL 
had recorded  matched  that on the bank statements.
Mr E responded to say that he would have thought the bank statement and the results  of 
WCLs credit  checks would  have  been kept on his file by WCL.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
WCL was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks  to make  sure 
Mr E could afford to repay the loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr E was borrowing, the length of the loan 
agreement and his lending history. But there  was no set list of checks WCL had to do. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator at the time Mr E took his loans 
from WCL. Its regulations for lenders  are set out in its consumer credit sourcebook.  These 
regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to 
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner without the 
customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.  
The FCA defines sustainable as being  able to make repayments without undue difficulty. It 
says this means borrowers should  be able to make their repayments on time and out of their 
income and savings without having  to borrow to meet  these repayments.  
So, the fact that the amounts borrowed and the interest paid might  have been low in 
comparison with Mr Es income, or that he managed to repay five of the loans in full, doesnt 
necessarily mean the loans were affordable for him and that he managed  to repay  them in a 
sustainable manner . In other words I cant assume  that because Mr E managed to repay 
most of his loans that he was able to do so out of his normal means  without having to borrow 
further. 
WCL has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr E. I note that WCL carried  out 
credit checks but Ive not seen these. I have seen  Mr Es credit report which  shows around 
six credit  accounts in arrear at the time he applied for WCLs loans. But I cant be sure that 
WCL would  have seen  these on its credit check. Im aware that when a lender carries out a 
credit search, the information it sees doesnt usually  provide the same level of detail that a 
consumers credit search will and it isnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a 
small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some  data might be missing  or anonymised. So, 
that may explain any differences between the information provided  by WCLs credit check (if 
it wasnt aware of the delinquent accounts) and Mr Es actual situation.
I note that it is WCLs practice  to request a bank statement before a borrowers first loan and 
then every six months after. I note from WCLs records that it had seen Mr Es bank 
statement before  Loan 1 and there  are details of Mr Es income  and regular expenditure for 
some of the loans. I note that Mr E disputes that he had sent WCL his bank statement. But I 
can see that it has recorded that Mr E had sent it in to it. I also note that it has accurately 
recorded Mr Es income as £2,218  although  other  elements  of Mr Es regular  expenditure 
dont appear to exactly match Mr Es most recent bank statement before Loan  1. I also dont 
Ref: DRN27497543know if the bank  statement  it saw was Mr Es most  recent statement or one before that. But 
overall and on balance, I accept that WCL had seen Mr Es bank statement. 
Before Loan 1, WCL had recorded  Mr Es income as £2,218  and his expenditure at £975. 
The loan repayment was £109.60. Whilst Ive not seen the results of WCLs credit  check,  I 
do note that WCL  had rejected two loan applications from Mr E less than three months 
earlier. I might have  expected this to cause WCL some concerns. On the other hand, I can 
see that the loan repayment amount was relatively  modest compared to Mr Es declared  
disposable income. So, overall I think it was proportionate for WCL to consider Mr Es 
declared disposable income at that time, without making further  checks  for Loan 1. So, I 
dont think WCL did anything wrong in giving Loan  1 to Mr E.
Mr E took out Loan 2 two weeks after repaying  Loan 1. The loan repayment amount had 
increased to £225.60.  It appears that Mr Es declared income was £2,300 and his declared  
expenditure was still £975, and there had been  no repayment issues  up to then.  I think the 
repayment amount  was still relatively  modest compared to Mr Es declared income. So, 
again I think that WCLs checks were sufficient  before Loan  2.
Mr E took out Loan 3 twelve days after repaying  Loan 2. The repayment amount for 
Loan 3 had increased to £343.20. WCLs records again show that Mr E had declared a 
disposable income of £1,125. I think the repayment amount was still relatively modest 
compared to Mr Es income. So, I still think it was proportionate for WCL to consider Mr Es 
disposable income again here, without making further checks for Loan 3. So, I dont think 
WCL did anything wrong in giving Loan 3 to Mr E.
Loan 4 for £250 was taken out just three days after Mr E repaid Loan 3. Its not clear  what 
the repayment amount would have been if the loan had been repaid on the due date, as 
Mr E repaid  the loan the day after taking  it out, paying £254. But I think its likely  that the 
repayment amount  was close to £300. WCLs records again  show that Mr E had declared a 
disposable income of £1,125. As Loan 4 was Mr Es fourth loan from WCL in less than three  
months and as it was taken out so soon  after Loan 3 was repaid, I think  WCL might  have 
been concerned  by this time that Mr E was experiencing  financial difficulties. And I think  
WCL should have  also been concerned about the frequency of Mr Es loan requests 
especially in view of his relatively high disposable  income. I think  they might have suggested 
to ECL that Mr E was using short term loans as a supplement to his normal income,  rather  
than using them to meet a temporary  one-off problem. So by the time of Loan  4 I think  it 
would have been proportionate for WCL to have  asked  Mr E whether he was taking short 
term loans from other  lenders at the same  time.  I cant  see that it did this.
With regard to Loans 5 and 6, these were taken  out around 12 days  and six weeks  
respectively after Loan 4. And the loan repayment amounts had increased significantly to 
£454.40 for Loan 5 and a likely similar amount for Loan 6 as the loan amount was for the 
same sum. I cant see on WCLs notes a record of the repayment amount for Loan  6. I think 
Mr Es loans  were by this time being taken sufficiently regularly to show  that Mr E was reliant  
on them.  By this time, I also think it should have been clear  to WCL that it could no longer 
rely on the information Mr E had provided.  I think the amount and regularity of Mr Es loan 
applications might  have suggested to WCL by the time of Loans 5 and 6 that it should  look in 
much more depth at Mr Es true financial situation to assess the affordability of its lending.  It 
couldve done this in a number of ways. It couldve asked for evidence  of Mr Es income  and 
expenditure such as payslips  and bills, or it couldve looked at things like his bank 
statements. 
Ref: DRN27497544Although I dont think the checks WCL did for Loans 4 to 6 were  sufficient,  that in itself 
doesnt mean that Mr Es complaint about this loan should succeed.  I also need to see 
whether what I consider  to be proportionate  checks would have shown WCL that Mr E 
couldnt sustainably  afford Loans  4 to 6. 
With regard to Loan 4, as Ive said above,  I would have expected WCL to ask about Mr Es 
short term credit  commitments whilst  taking  into account Mr Es declared disposable income 
of £1,125. Ive reviewed  his bank statements for the month before Loan 4 to see what better 
checks would have  shown  WCL. But I cant see that Mr E had taken out other  short term 
loans in that period. So, I dont think that carrying  out better checks wouldve uncovered 
anything that wouldve  stopped WCL from giving  the loan to Mr E. So, Im not intending  to 
uphold Mr Es complaint  about Loan 4.
With regard to Loans 5 and 6, as Ive said above,  I think WCL should have been  
independently checking the information Mr E had provided. So Ive tried to do this by looking 
at Mr Es bank statements at the time of these  loans,  to see what  better checks would have 
shown WCL. The bank  statements may not have  shown WCL everything it wouldve seen by 
carrying out proportionate checks. But the bank statements  are the best indication  of Mr Es 
ability to afford the loans  at the time they were approved. So I dont think its unreasonable to 
rely on these. 
If WCL had checked  Mr Es financial information  before  Loan  5, it would have seen that he 
was earning less than hed declared, around £1,744.  But, it also would have become aware  
that Mr E appeared to be gambling  heavily with gambling expenditure of around  £1,000.  And 
his regular expenditure was over £1,500. Mr E had also taken out a short  term loan for £700  
which appeared to be repayable by monthly payments of £128.There appear to be 
contributions of around £633 from Mr Es partner. But overall,  if WCL had carried  out what I 
consider to be proportionate checks before Loan 5, I think  its likely that it would have 
concluded that Loan 5 wasnt  sustainable.
And if WCL had checked Mr Es financial information before Loan 6, it would have  seen that 
he was earning  less than hed declared,  around  £1,729. But, it also would have become 
aware that Mr E was gambling less heavily with gambling expenditure of around £305.  And 
his regular expenditure was around £1,308 and his short  term lending  to be repaid around 
the same  time as Loan  6 was around £128. There also appear to be contributions of around 
£400 from Mr Es partner. But overall, if WCL had carried out what  I consider to be 
proportionate checks before Loan 6, I think its likely that it would have concluded  that 
Loan 6 wasnt  sustainable.
So, I think if WCL had done what I consider  to be proportionate checks, it would  have seen 
the problems with Mr Es financial situation. And so, as a responsible lender, I dont  think  it 
would have agreed to lend Loans  5 and 6 to him. So, I think  that WCL needs  to pay Mr E 
some compensation relating to Loans 5 and 6.
To settle  the complaint I think WCL should:-
1.Refund all interest  and charges that Mr E paid on Loan 5;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
3.With regard to Loan 6, refund all the interest  and charges  that Mr E has paid on 
Loan 6, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN274975454.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 6;
5.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  6 and 
pay any balance to Mr E; and
6.Remove any adverse  information about Loans 5 and 6 from Mr Es credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WCL to take off tax from this interest. WCL must give 
Mr E a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one. If WCL intends to 
apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding  capital  balance, it must do so after deducting  
the tax. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order WAGEME.COM LTD to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges that Mr E paid on Loan 5;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
3.With regard to Loan 6, refund all the interest  and charges  that Mr E has paid on 
Loan 6, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
4.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 6;
5.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  6 and 
pay any balance to Mr E; and
6.Remove any adverse  information about Loans 5 and 6 from Mr Es credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WCL to take off tax from this interest. WCL must give 
Mr E a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one. If WCL intends to 
apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding  capital  balance, it must do so after deducting  
the tax. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2749754