K821x#15Complaint
Mr As unhappy with ReAssure Limiteds  (previously known as GAN Life & Pensions Plc) 
decision to decline his claim for permanent disability benefit.
Background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2019  and it included  the 
following:
Mr As claims  been ongoing for several  years and ReAssures declined it on various 
grounds in the past. More recently, in September 2018, one of my ombudsman  colleagues  
issued a final decision requiring ReAssure to reassess his claim in line with the disabled  
definition in section  4b of the policy terms and pay him £300  as compensation for its poor 
handling of the claim  up to that point.
In response, ReAssure  arranged for an assessment of Mr A to be carried out at his home in 
November 2018  to determine whether he was permanently disabled  as per the policy terms. 
On reviewing the assessment report, ReAssure  decided to decline  the claim once more. It 
said, among other things,  that the report didnt indicate Mr A was disabled  in line with the 
policy.
Unhappy with ReAssures  decision, Mr A complained  to us. Our investigator  looked into the 
complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld.  
As Mr A didnt agree  with the investigators  assessment,  the case was passed to me to 
review afresh.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Its not for me to reconsider the issues  that were already the subject of the previous final 
decision we issued regarding  this claim.  Although theres some overlap between whats 
already been decided  and the issues that have been brought  to me now, Ive focussed on 
the latter. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Section 4b of the policy sets out the requirements  Mr A must meet before he can be 
considered disabled. He must be:
 totally unable to perform unaided  three or more  of the following:
dressing and undressing;
washing and bathing;
eating;
general household duties (cleaning,  laundry, preparing food);
climbing stairs (or shopping);
using the toilet  
Ref: DRN21037482A key word  in the definition is unaided. In her decision of 2018,  my ombudsman  colleague 
asked ReAssure to be careful to apply the appropriate test when assessing  whether Mr A 
could complete any of the tasks unaided.  She explained that ReAssure incorrectly 
considered unaided to mean without the help or supervision of another person even though 
the policy didnt  define unaided in that, or any other, way. She listed some  of the aids Mr A 
and his doctor had confirmed  he used,  including a prosthesis, a wheelchair  and grab bars. 
Despite this clear direction from the ombudsman, ReAssures continued to apply its favoured  
meaning of the word  unaided in assessing, and ultimately declining, Mr As claim. 
For the record, I too note that the policy doesnt define unaided. Presumably that has 
something to do with the fact that Mr A and ReAssure entered  into the contract  many  years 
ago. As times gone on, the drafting of such policies has developed  in line with medical 
advances, claims experience and so on to the extent that such a contract  starting now would 
probably define the term.
Nevertheless, that leaves  us with the challenge of giving meaning  to the word. ReAssures 
attempted to do so by applying the practices of today. So, its specifically referred  to the 
Association of British Insurers Guide to Minimum Standards For Critical Illness Cover, last 
updated in 2019 (the ABI Guide). The ABI Guide says:
The insured  person must need the help or supervision of another person and be 
unable to perform the task on their own, even with the use of special equipment 
routinely available to help
So, according to ReAssure, if Mr A can perform  a task without someones  help but with the 
use of special equipment then he wont satisfy  the policy requirements. Mr A says this is 
unfair since his policy  terms dont include such a definition. 
I think the approach  taken  by ReAssures fair. The policy terms were  set when Mr As cover 
started. They havent changed since that time and, as far as Im aware,  ReAssure hasnt 
sought to vary the terms of Mr As policy since  the start. It wasnt Mr As fault that the terms 
were set out as they were or that a definition of unaided wasnt  included.
Ive considered carefully what the intentions of Mr A and ReAssure might  have been when 
they entered into the contract to try to understand how they might have intended a claim like 
this one to be assessed. But I havent seen any compelling evidence of what  those 
intentions might have  been.
All of which leaves me with the ordinary,  everyday  meaning of the word unaided. I take that 
to mean  Mr A shouldnt  be able to perform the task in question without the help of anyone  or 
anything. So that if hes unable to perform the listed task, albeit with the use of an aid, then 
he should be deemed unable to perform  the task as required by the policy.  
Reviewing the assessment report with that interpretation in mind, it seems to me that Mr A 
satisfies the requirement that he be unable to perform three of more  of the listed  tasks.  For 
example, regarding washing and bathing the assessor said Mr A would be able to do so, but 
by using appropriate aids. Regarding climbing stairs or shopping, the assessor said Mr A 
was unable to complete  the task. In terms of using the toilet,  the assessor said he was able 
to do so but with readily available aids and equipment. In the circumstances,  and given the 
nature of Mr As medical conditions, I see no reason to think that his disability isnt 
permanent.
Ref: DRN21037483Taking everything into account,  I dont think ReAssures decision to decline Mr As claim was 
fair. 
I also believe ReAssures approach to Mr As claims caused him unnecessary  
inconvenience and upset. As I say, I think my ombudsman colleague clearly set out the way 
in which  ReAssure ought to assess the claim.  Despite being directed regarding  section  4b of 
the policy, it continued to rely on definitions of the word unaided that (to all intents and 
purposes) didnt  exist at the start of Mr As cover or until years later.
Instead of Mr As claim being  finalised in late 2018 as it could reasonably have been, its 
been delayed  by several months. And thats on top of the delay already addressed by my 
ombudsman colleague.  At a time when Mr A was suffering due to severe ill-health, I consider 
all of this would have  caused him unnecessary distress, for which ReAssure should pay him 
compensation of £200.      
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive provisionally  decided  to uphold  the complaint. I require ReAssure 
Limited to:
Pay Mr As claim in accordance with the remaining  policy terms; and
Add interest to the benefit amount  at the simple rate of 8% a year,  calculated  from 
the date of the assessment report to the date of actual  payment*; plus
Pay Mr A £200 as compensation for the distress  and inconvenience its poor handling 
of the claims caused him.
*If Reassure Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one.
I asked the parties  to send me any more  comments or evidence  they wanted  me to consider 
before I revisited the complaint. ReAssure didnt respond to us regarding  my provisional 
decision although Mr As provided a copy  of a letter he received from ReAssure confirming,  
among other things,  it wouldnt  be challenging my decision and would pay the claim. 
Mr A said he accepted my provisional  decision. Notably, he said he was concerned  that 
ReAssure was attempting to settle the claim for less than he was entitled to. He said he 
believed he was entitled to the full sum assured  of £35,750.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to apologise  for a typographical error that was included  in my provisional 
decision. In one section of it, as Mr A pointed out, I said I think  the approach  taken by 
ReAssures fair. I intended to say I dont think the approach taken by ReAssures  fair. 
which I think I expressed clearly elsewhere in the decision.
Turning to the amount Mr A believes ReAssure should pay him for the claim, I thank Mr A for 
sending us its letter to him following my provisional decision. I can understand his reluctance 
Ref: DRN21037484to trust ReAssures intentions regarding his claim given  how long matters have been 
ongoing, but I note it said:
In line, with the instructions of the Financial Ombudsman Service, we will pay the 
[permanent disability benefit] sum assured of £37,750, together with simple interest 
at a rate of 8% from the date of the assessment  together with £200 compensation. 
It seems  to me that ReAssures signalled its intention to comply in full with my decision. Im 
pleased thats  the case.
Regarding the continuing  claim form ReAssures asked Mr A to complete, its not for me to 
comment as part of this complaint on whether he should do so. I can only suggest he contact 
ReAssure direct to discuss why its needed  and what  the consequences  of not completing it 
might be. He can then make a better informed decision about how to proceed.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require ReAssure  Limited to 
put things right for Mr A as explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2103748