K821x#15complaint
Ms A complains  that Bank of Scotland plc closed her current  account and registered  a fraud 
prevention marker  against her without due cause.
background
Ms A in the director of B, a small business. In August Ms A got in touch with Bank  of 
Scotland to notify them of a large  payment due into the account. She also changed the name  
and purpose of the business. The payment was never received. 
In December 2018 £50,000  was sent to Bs account. The sending bank got in touch with 
Bank of Scotland to say that these were  fraudulent  funds and werent  intended for B. Ms A 
said she wasnt expecting these funds  and did not know  why they had been  sent to her. But 
Bank of Scotland decided to review  Bs account and subsequently took the decision to close 
Ms As personal account and register a Credit  Industry Fraud  Avoidance  System  (Cifas) 
marker against B. 
Ms A complained to Bank of Scotland. She reiterated that she was not sure why or how 
these funds had been sent to her business  account and suggested someone could have got 
her bank details from her phone that had been  stolen  in November. Bank of Scotland  felt 
they had reasonable grounds to believe that she had been  involved in or attempted a fraud 
or financial crime as the director of B, so they felt they had done  nothing wrong in escalating  
their concerns to Cifas  about Ms A as an individual.  They also said they had closed her 
personal account with 60 days notice in line with their terms and conditions,  so didnt feel 
they had done anything  wrong. 
Ms A was not happy so she came to our service.  Our investigator agreed that Bank of 
Scotland were  entitled to close her account  with 60 days notice as this was in line with the 
account terms and conditions. Ms A has agreed  with this point. They  also recommended  that 
the Cifas marker  should be removed as they didnt feel Bank of Scotland  had reasonable 
grounds to conclude that Ms A had been involved in a fraud  of financial crime. He 
recommended that they also pay Ms A £150  for the distress and inconvenience  they caused 
her. Bank of Scotland didnt agree that the Cifas should be removed. They  felt that the 
account activity  in August suggested that Ms A had intended to use her business  account for 
fraudulent purposes  and that the evidence suggested that she had done  so in December. 
Because they disagreed  with our investigators  recommendation, it has come  to me to make  
a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons. 
The marker that Bank of Scotland asked Cifas  to register against Ms A is for misuse of 
facility. This misuse this refers to is using the account to receive fraudulent funds.  In order  to 
reach the evidential  burden required to record this, Bank of Scotland arent required to prove 
beyond reasonable doubt that an offence or attempted offence were committed. But to 
register a Cifas marker for misuse of facility  Bank  of Scotland  need to be able to 
demonstrate that there are reasonable grounds  to believe that a fraud or financial crime has 
Ref: DRN20490452been attempted or committed.  They must  also be able to show that the evidence theyve 
based this on is clear, relevant and rigorous such that it could  confidently  report the conduct 
of B to the police  though this doesnt mean  that they actually have to report it to the police.
The finding  for me to make is not about what I think was most likely  to have been Ms As role 
in the sequence of events  that led to fraudulent  funds being sent to her business account. 
Rather, my role is to determine whether I think that the Bank  of Scotland  have clear, relevant 
and rigorous evidence  that gives them reasonable grounds to believe that Ms A was 
involved in a fraud or financial  crime such that it would be able to escalate its concerns to 
Cifas. 
I dont think Bank of Scotland have demonstrated  that they were entitled  to escalate their 
concerns to Cifas,  and I will explain why. I am satisfied from Bank of Scotlands evidence  
that there  was an attempt  to move funds into Bs account that she wasnt  entitled to, and that 
they had grounds  to be concerned and conduct  a review of Bs account. But for me to find 
that I think Bank of Scotland  had reasonable grounds to believe Ms A had been involved in 
or attempted  fraud and financial  crime,  I would need  to be satisfied they had suitable 
evidence that she had knowledge  or intention relating to these funds. 
Bank of Scotland have argued  that the account  activity in August whereby Ms A changed the 
name and purpose  of her business, and notified them  of a large payment that was not 
received build a picture of someone  who was intending to use the account for fraudulent 
purposes. Whilst this could be true, I think there are plenty of plausible  explanations for this 
that dont involve fraud. As such I think this amounts to mere  suspicion which  is not sufficient 
in and of itself to register  a Cifas marker. So Ive gone on to consider the December 
payment.  
I accept that a payment was initiated  to transfer funds to Bs account that B was not entitled  
to receive. Ms A has no explanation as to how this money was sent to her account,  which  
may be because she genuinely  has no knowledge of these  funds or why they were sent to 
her account.  As none of the funds reached her business account, there was no way these 
could have been seen by Ms A nor spent. And Ive not seen anything  from Bank  of Scotland  
that shows she was aware of them  or played a role in the initiation of the payment to her 
account. Whilst I accept that it is strange that these funds were  sent to Ms As business 
account, there are ways  this could have happened without her knowledge. For example, her 
bank details may have  been included or entered in error by the owner of the sending 
account, or by someone attempting to scam the owner of the sending account. 
Bank of Scotland havent been able to show much  evidence  from the sending  bank to assist 
in our understanding of exactly what happened to initiate the sending of funds to Bs 
account. We cannot know exactly what happened, but Ms A denied  knowledge of these 
funds at the first opportunity. Without evidence to support Ms A being aware of these funds, 
it is difficult to see how Bank of Scotland had a reasonable belief that B was party  to fraud  or 
financial crime.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Bank  of Scotland had enough evidence  to meet 
the burden of proof required by Cifas to add the marker against B. I dont think it is fair and 
reasonable for the Cifas  marker to remain, so I will be asking Bank of Scotland  to remove 
the marker.  With regards  to the account closure, Ms A has accepted that the account  was 
closed in line with the terms and conditions  and I agree with the investigators  opinion that 
nothing more needs to be done by Bank  of Scotland in relation  to this. 
Ref: DRN20490453my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I require Bank of Scotland to remove  the Cifas  marker that 
has been registered against  Ms A and pay her £150  for the distress  and inconvenience  it 
caused her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before XXX 2020.
Katherine Jones 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2049045