K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that American  International Group  UK Limited  acted unfairly and
unreasonably when dealing with his claim under  a personal accident insurance policy. A
solicitor is helping Mr S to bring his complaint.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 17 March  2020, 
an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I wont  repeat that 
information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that AIGs proposal  to agree 
instructions for a new medical report and then reassess the claim was fair. I set out what  I 
thought AIG should have regard to in reassessing Mr S claim. I also said that the 
compensation AIG had previously offered in relation to its handling of the complaint was fair.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr S said that he rejected  my findings  and that hed pursue this elsewhere. We didnt receive 
a response from AIG.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mr S nor AIG have provided  me with anything  further  on the complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision.  
So, for the reasons Ive explained,  I think that the offer AIG has already made in relation to 
reassessing Mr S claim and inviting him to choose  from a list of three consultants is fair. In 
reassessing Mr Ss claim, AIG should  have regard to what  I said in my provisional decision.  I 
also think that the compensation AIG previously offered in relation to its handling of the 
complaint is fair.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that the 
offer AIG has already made in relation to reassessing Mr S claim and inviting him to choose 
from a list of three consultants is fair. In reassessing Mr S claim it should have regard to 
what I said in my provisional decision.  I think that the compensation AIG previously offered in 
relation to its handling of the complaint is fair.
Ref: DRN27643562Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27643563extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr S complains that American  International Group  UK Limited  acted unfairly and 
unreasonably when dealing with his claim under  a personal accident insurance policy. A 
solicitor is helping Mr S to bring his complaint.
background
Mr S has a personal  accident insurance policy, which, amongst other things, provides  cover 
in the event of bodily  injury as a result of an accident  resulting in permanent disability.
Theres been a significant amount of detailed exchanges in this case.  By way of summary, 
Mr S was in active military service and suffered  a back  injury in July 2015. In April 2017,
Mr S made a claim against his policy. AIG obtained two medical reports then offered Mr S
£7,800. It said that was based on the level of Mr S permanent  disability solely  due to 
the accident in July 2015, after deductions for the percentage of whole body impairment 
and pre-existing conditions.
Mr S didnt  accept that. He said that he didnt have a pre-existing back  problem and that AIG 
shouldnt limit his claim by the whole  body percentage limitatio n, He said that relevant 
limitations werent bought to his attention. He disputed the reliability  of the medical reports  
and the independence  of the consultants who prepared them. Mr S says that his claim 
should be assessed under item 17 of section B in the policy,  without deduction for the 
percentage of disability or pre-existing  conditions.
AIG withdrew its offer. It said that it had assessed  Mr S claim under the wrong part of the 
policy. AIG said that as Mr S hadnt lost the entire  function of his back or spine, it needs to 
establish what percentage of function he has lost, taking into account any pre-existing or 
underlying condition. It set out a process for Mr S to be medically examined again. AIG 
offered Mr S compensation of £500  plus interest in relation  to its handling of his claim.
Mr S commissioned his own medical report,  which said that his injury  equates  to between
15% and 20% of total bodily disability. So, he says that AIG should pay him £60,000.
One of our investigators looked  at what had happened. He thought that AIG had dealt with 
Mr S complaint fairly.  The investigator said that AIG was right to assess  Mr S claim 
against item 9 in section B of the policy  which relates to loss of the entire back or spine   
and could adjust  the amount payable taking into account pre-existing conditions. The 
investigator thought  that it was reasonable for AIG to ask Mr S to visit another  expert to 
progress the claim  and that its compensation of £500 in relation to its claim handling was 
fair.
Mr S didnt  agree with the investigator.  His solicitor said,  in summary:
The limit that applies to Mr Ss claim is up to £20,000 per unit, not up to 
£7,000 per unit.
The degree of disability reduction doesnt  apply  here because Mr S disability 
relates to his back, which is mentioned in the table of benefits  in section B of 
the policy.
Ref: DRN27643564The relevant  parts of the policy should have been drawn to Mr S attention.
Mr S didnt have any pre-existing injury to his back, so AIG cant make a 
deduction for that.
Mr S claim should be assessed against item 17 in section B of the policy, 
using the benefit  limit of up to £20,000  per unit and a deduction should be 
made based on the degree of Mr S actual injuries expressed as a percentage 
of whole  body disability after a fresh medical  report has been obtained.
The investigator didnt  change his view. There were  further exchanges, which I wont set 
out here. As there was no agreement between  the parties, the complaint was passed to 
me, an ombudsman,  to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious that Ive condensed a lot of detail  into a short  narrative. That reflects  our 
service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. But Im satisfied that Ive captured 
the essence of Mr S complaint.
Its clear and quite  understandable that Mr S has very strong feelings about  this matter. 
Theres a considerable sum at stake. Mr S and his solicitor have provided detailed  
submissions to support the complaint, which I have  read and considered. However, I trust 
that Mr S will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider the central 
issue, that is, whether AIG has treated  him in accordance  with the terms and conditions  
of his policy and fairly  in dealing with his claim.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the policy,  which  say:
What the insurance covers
If during the period of cover, you suffer bodily injury which,  within two years  solely  and 
independently of any other cause, results in [] a permanent  disability [], we will pay 
the total sum insured .
The pricing and the benefits under the policy are determined by the number of 
units purchased. Mr S purchased 15 units, which is the maximum number 
available.
The table of benefits  in the policy shows a list of injuries and how much AIG would pay 
for each  injury per unit purchased. Items 9 and 17 on the list of table of benefits say:
9     Loss of the entire back or spine (vertebral column) with no injury  to the
spinal cord.                                                                                                  £7,000
Ref: DRN2764356517   Permanent disability not otherwise  listed
Please see the section  headed 1. non-specified injuries [] for 
further details. Up to £20,000
1. Non specified injuries
We will pay a benefit (or benefits) under item 17 of section B (permanent  disabilities) for 
a permanent, total and irrecoverable loss by assessing the degree of disability suffered 
compared to those  permanent disabilities  specifically mentioned  in that section without 
taking account  of your occupation.
If the disability suffered does not relate  to a specific disability or a part of the body 
mentioned in the table of benefits in section B, then we will assess  the degree of disability 
suffered as a percentage of the whole body. []
The policy also provides  for deduction for existing medical conditions as follows:
2. Existing medical conditions
If you have  an existing  physical or medical condition, we will ask an independent  
medical consultant  to:
i.assess whether your existing physical  or medical  condition has 
contributed to your post-accident disability and, if so
ii.assess the difference between your physical or medical condition  before 
and your disability  after the accident.
Any payment will be based on the difference, expressed as a percentage and applied to 
the appropriate item in the table  of benefits.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that AIG has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.
I think that AIGs proposal to agree instructions for a new medical report and then 
reassess the claim is fair. But I think its reasoning hasnt been  clear throughout its 
handling of Mr S claim. So, I set out below what I think  is fair in this case:
AIG didnt  give Mr S advice about  the suitability  of the policy.  So, it was for     
Mr S to decide whether the policy met his needs.  I think that AIG gave Mr S 
clear information that wasnt misleading  and I dont think that it mis-sold the 
policy to Mr S.
This dispute is about how Mr S claim is assessed and how the policy is 
interpreted. I dont think that AIG was required to draw Mr S attention to 
particular parts of the policy.
Its common  ground that Mr S suffered a permanent injury  but he hasnt 
suffered loss of his entire  back  or spine. So, Mr S permanent disability doesnt 
fit into item 9 quoted above,  as he has some use of his spine.
Ref: DRN27643566Mr S claim should be assessed under item 17, as his is a permanent disability 
not listed in the table.  This general  section says that if theres an injury  relating 
to a body part mentioned in the list of permanent disabilities, but its not a total 
loss of use of that body part, AIG will consider the degree of loss of use and pay 
a percentage  of what it wouldve  paid if the entire  body  part had been lost. For 
example, if the medical evidence shows 20% loss of use of the spine, AIG will 
pay 20%.
20% of what? Mr S says that the benefit  limit of up to £20,000 per unit in item 
17- the general  section - is the relevant  one. AIG says its the fixed  sum of 
£7,000 per unit under item 9 - the spine section. The general section is 
different from the other section as it says up to £20,000 per unit, so its not a 
fixed sum. I think thats because the highest  amount for an injury under section 
B is £20,000  per unit, so reference to that in the general section allows  AIG to 
pay up to that amount per unit where thats the amount for that particular 
disability.
The wording of the policy links the payment  for a partial  loss of use of the back  
or spine  to the relevant item within  the table of benefits. Thats  logically 
consistent, as if its £7,000 per unit for the loss of the entire back  or spine, its 
not fair or reasonable to receive £20,000 per unit for less serious  permanent  
disability affecting  partial use of the back or spine. I think its fair and reasonable 
to use the fixed sum of £7,000  per unit as the basis of the calculation.
Mr S disability  relates to a part of the body mentioned in the table of benefits, 
so its not appropriate  to assess the degree  of disability  suffered as a 
percentage of the whole  body.  The correct assessment is the degree  of 
disability compared  to loss of the entire back or spine.
The policy provides  that therell be a deduction for any pre-existing medical 
conditions. The medical report  will deal with the extent of any pre-existing 
medical conditions,  having regard to Mr S medical records.
Im not persuaded by the argument that any previous injury occurred during the 
period of cover, so cant be pre-existing.  Under the terms of the policy,  AIG is 
looking at whether  any pre-existing conditions contributed to Mr S post 
accident disability  for the claim hes actually made. Its irrelevant that Mr S 
previous injuries  would  be eligible  for a claim in their own right, as he didnt 
make those  claims. 
I dont think I need to deal with Mr S concerns  about the medical  reports by 
AIGs appointed  experts as AIG has said that Mr S can choose an expert from a 
list of three it suggests. I think thats  fair. That expert will effectively be a jointly  
appointed expert and should lead to the parties  agreeing the issue about  the 
degree of Mr S disability and any relevant pre-existing  medical  conditions.  Mr S 
may choose to get his own report  and it would be fair and reasonable for AIG to 
consider it.
AIGs  initial handling of Mr S claim was muddled. AIG is the expert  here and 
wed expect it to get this right.  It has offered Mr S compensation of £500 
plus interest in relation  to its handling  of the complaint. I think  thats  fair.
Ref: DRN27643567my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that the offer AIG has already made  in relation to 
reassessing Mr S claim and inviting him to choose  from a list of three consultants  is 
fair. In reassessing  Mr S claim it should have regard to what  Ive said above. I think 
that the compensation AIG previously offered in relation to its handling of the complaint  
is fair.
Ref: DRN2764356