K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains Yorkshire Building Society unfairly  applied an early  repayment charge when 
he redeemed his mortgage. And hes unhappy  about a surveyors  fee he paid. 
background
In 2017 Mr W took out a mortgage with Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) with a five year 
fixed interest rate product.  
In 2018 Mr W wanted  to downsize. He made  an application to YBS for a mortgage for the 
new property he wanted to buy, which, if it had gone ahead, wouldve allowed him to port his 
existing fixed term interest  rate. 
YBS appointed a surveyor to inspect the property. The surveyor said the garden was too 
overgrown for him to carry out a detailed assessment  of the external  condition of the 
property. He said this would normally be required and was critical in this case since  there 
was Japanese  Knotweed  in the garden. The surveyor  valued  the property at nil.
YBS said the property  didnt meet its lending criteria and it wasnt able to offer Mr W a 
mortgage for the new property.
 
Mr W was unhappy at this stage because he felt the valuation survey  carried out was 
inadequate and he objected to paying the fee for it. 
YBS agreed to review the valuation based on a report the seller of the property had obtained 
from a tree specialist that assessed the level of Japanese Knotweed at the property and 
made recommendations to eradicate  it. Mr W told YBS the specialists recommendations 
had already been put in place.
 
YBS still refused  to lend to him on any terms for the property in question although it was 
willing to consider alternative properties.  But Mr W went ahead with the purchase  of the 
property with a mortgage from another lender. Since he redeemed his mortgage  with YBS 
during the fixed  interest rate period, he had to pay a significant early repayment charge 
(ERC).
Mr W now complains  YBS mis-sold  the mortgage  to him as being  able to port was extremely  
important to him and he wasnt  able to do that. Hes unhappy with the valuation report  and 
the fee he was charged for that. And he feels YBS didnt  properly assess his application in 
light of the tree specialists report. Mr W complains he was prevented  from porting his 
mortgage which meant he had to pay an ERC when he shouldnt have had to. He wants  the 
surveyors fee to be refunded  and the ERC repaid.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint so Ive reviewed everything afresh to come 
to a final decision. For reasons Ill explain, I agree with our investigators opinion.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN29103432Mr W and YBS have provided a great  deal of information which has been  helpful to me in 
looking into Mr Ws complaint. Before I set out my findings, I want  to reassure the parties Ive 
considered everything  theyve sent to us and the arguments theyve raised, even if I dont  
mention it specifically in my decision.   
The mortgage offer made to Mr W by YBS in 2017 made clear porting an interest rate 
product to a new mortgage on a new property could only happen if certain conditions were  
met. They included  that Mr W and any property he wanted to buy met YBS lending rules  at 
the time he made  an application. 
Mr Ws acknowledged he understood, at the time,  this condition applied.  And hes said since 
that he wants to know  what part of the lending  criteria wasnt  met. So I dont  think the 
mortgage was mis-sold.  And I think Mr Ws complaint is more  about the survey and the way 
in which  YBS applied its lending  criteria when Mr W wanted to buy the new property.
Mr Ws raised a number  of concerns about the inspection carried  out by the surveyor 
appointed by YBS. Hes unhappy he had to pay a fee for what,  broadly, he thinks was a poor 
service. As evidence of this he points, amongst other things, to photographs he thinks  show  
the surveyor couldve carried out a more detailed  inspection than he said was possible due 
to the overgrown  state of the garden and the fact another  surveyor,  appointed later by 
another lender, was able to provide  a valuation.
The surveyor appointed  by YBS was a suitably qualified independent surveyor so I dont 
have power to consider the service  he provided  that doesnt come  within  this services  
rules. But I can think  about whether YBS should have done anything  differently before it 
appointed the surveyor and incurred  his fee.
Mr Ws acknowledged he didnt tell YBS the property  had Japanese Knotweed. Theres no 
evidence either  YBS or the surveyor was aware there was Japanese Knotweed at the 
property before the surveyor was appointed  or that the overgrown condition  of the garden 
would affect what  could be inspected. And I havent seen any evidence that suggests any 
special instructions or preparations shouldve been  given  or suggested by YBS to the 
surveyor before he carried out the inspection that might  have  made it more  effective.  
Although the valuation  was for YBS purposes its usual for the borrower to pay the fee for 
such valuations. I see no reason why Mr W shouldnt have been asked to pay the surveyors 
fee in this case.
The purpose of the valuation  was to enable YBS to assess if the property  provided  it with 
sufficient security for YBS to lend Mr W the money he wanted.  Since  the surveyor was 
suitably qualified and independent of YBS,  it was reasonable for YBS to rely on his opinion  
in coming to its decision about whether  or not to lend to Mr W. 
YBS has explained its internal lending standards say every  application  for a mortgage must 
be supported by an acceptable valuation  of the security. Since the surveyor  valued the 
property at nil, I think  it was reasonable for YBS not to offer Mr W a mortgage  based on the 
valuation. 
YBS discussed the valuation report with Mr W shortly after it had been prepared.  He was 
unhappy as he didnt think the surveyor had done  enough to inspect the property. He argued 
the specialist report showed the Japanese Knotweed in the garden of the new property 
Ref: DRN29103433wasnt a threat to the property because of its distance from it. YBS agreed to consider the 
specialist report and information Mr W provided that recommendations in that report for 
eradicating the Japanese  Knotweed  had already been put into effect. Based on the 
information he provided and the condition of the property, YBS decided not to offer Mr W a 
mortgage on the new property.
In a series of calls YBS told Mr W, amongst other things
it did lend on properties where there was Japanese Knotweed  subject to the extent of 
the infestation 
but it wouldnt accept  his application for a mortgage on the new property, not only 
because of the presence of Japanese Knotweed in the garden, but also because  the 
condition of the property meant it required significant renovation
Mr W could  keep his application for a mortgage open and port his mortgage avoiding  
paying an ERC if he sold his existing property  and completed on a new one within  six 
months. 
Mr Ws raised a number  of arguments as to why, based on what the specialist report  said 
about the distance of the Japanese Knotweed from the property and the treatment being 
carried out to get rid of it, YBS should  have agreed to provide him with the mortgage. YBS 
has accepted  its underwriting  criteria allows  it to lend on properties with Japanese  Knotweed 
in certain conditions, as it explained to Mr W - although it seems possible, from what  Ive 
seen, that it wouldve placed a retention on any lending if it had decided to lend Mr W the 
money. 
But, as YBS also explained to Mr W, its decision not to lend to him wasnt  solely based on 
the fact there was Japanese Knotweed in the garden. The condition of the property affected 
its decision. 
Mr W has argued the extent of YBS assessment about the condition of the property didnt 
go far enough. And he points to the fact another surveyor instructed by the lender that 
eventually provided  him with a mortgage for the new property was able to value the property 
as evidence of this. 
Its not uncommon for professionals to come to different conclusions about  the same  thing. 
Its also the case that different lenders have different lending standards.  So I dont think  the 
fact that another lender would lend to Mr W meant YBS was wrong  to decline to do so. And 
Ive said YBS was entitled to rely on the surveyors advice. But YBS went  further and also 
took into consideration the fact the property was being advertised as a potential demolition 
and rebuild and photographs it had seen which showed the poor condition of the property.
 
In the end, YBS decision not to lend on the new property was a commercial one based on a 
number of factors. I dont  think it would be fair to interfere with that decision in the 
circumstances of this case.  
Mr W was aware  YBS wouldnt lend on the new property before  he sold his existing property. 
He discussed  his options with YBS. He told YBS because of the ERC he might have to 
consider a different property; he asked whether, if he went  ahead with the sale of his 
property YBS could  do anything  about  the ERC  and was told, if he found another property 
within six months, it might be able to refund the ERC. And YBS said it would consider an 
application to lend on the property later on if he made one. 
Ref: DRN29103434YBS explained how Mr W could avoid paying the ERC even if he went  ahead and sold his 
existing property. But he decided  to go ahead and buy the new property with a mortgage 
from another lender. He knew hed have  to pay the ERC. But he chose to buy the new 
property anyway knowing he had to pay the ERC. 
Bearing everything in mind, I think YBS treated  Mr W fairly and I dont think it would be fair to 
YBS to ask it to refund  the surveyors fee or the ERC to Mr W. So I dont uphold Mr Ws 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2910343