K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain, via a representative, about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
(Lloyds). 
background
Mr and Mrs V made a claim on their buildings policy for a drainage  issue  concerning  a pipe 
connected to their septic tank.  Lloyds rejected this for two reasons, lack of proof for an 
insured event, and the possibility that any problem began prior to them  insuring the property. 
Mr and Mrs V complained to us. 
One of our adjudicators considered the matter,  and after initially thinking that the complaint  
should succeed, decided that the claim fails. Mr and Mrs V have asked for this to be 
reviewed, so the case has been  passed to me. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding the complaint, for the same reasons as the adjudicator gave in his 
second view. 
The Lloyds policy covers  accidental damage, not failure due to wear and tear, that isnt 
unusual. So for me to be persuaded that Lloyds should meet the claim I would need to see 
that the issue was caused  by an accident, and that it occurred whilst Lloyds was on risk. Im 
afraid based on the evidence I have, neither of these have been proven to the extent 
necessary. 
A contractor  dealing with the tank originally  suggested that the pipe issue was actually 
present prior to Lloyds insuring the property. Whilst this testimony has been challenged 
since I have no reason to dismiss  this, it seems a genuinely held belief. Im also not 
persuaded that any accidental damage that would be covered has been proven either. 
Ive seen a number of papers and they suggest that the pipe in question was probably  too far 
from the usual  entry  point for emptying  the tank for it to be damaged  on such an occasion. 
Instead it may have  been damaged due to general  wear and tear of the tank,  in particular if 
age caused an issue with the roof and construction of the tank. This wouldnt be covered by 
insurance. 
When making a claim it is for the claimant to first of all prove the claim above  50% 
probability. It isnt sufficient for their explanation to be just as likely as the insurers  position, it 
must be more likely, albeit only 51% to 49%.  I havent seen that standard of proof here.  I 
consider it more likely  that wear  and tear has caused the problem, even  if it occurred whilst 
Lloyds were on risk, which is also in doubt. 
Ref: DRN21207712my final decision
I make  no award against Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2120771