K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam.
Background
In November 2018 Mr S fell victim to a scam.
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred  as follows.
On 14 November 2018, Mr S saw an advert  on Instagram for a car insurance company. 
Wanting to purchase the car insurance,  Mr S moved £418.80, from another account,  into the 
current account he held with Santander.  He then made a payment, via his mobile phone  for 
£418.86, to purchase  the car insurance.
Mr S has said after hed made the payment,  he received  an email he didnt think looked 
legitimate and he didnt hear anything else from the insurance company. So, he checked 
comments that people  had left on Instagram, about  the insurance  company, and he became 
suspicious. 
Mr S contacted Santander about  what had happened on 15 November 2018. Santander 
tried to recover the funds  from the receiving account  but found  the funds had been moved 
out on the same day Mr S made  the payment, so it wasnt able to recover any of Mr Ss 
money.
Mr S complained to Santander and it issued its final response on 11 December 2018. 
Santander said it had carried  out Mr Ss instruction  in making  the payment and the bill 
payment had instigated a One Time Passcode (OTP)  this had been sent to the mobile 
number it held for Mr S (which is the same  number Mr S provided to our service) and the 
OTP was entered  into the mobile phone, before the payment was processed. Ultimately 
Santander explained that it had carried out Mr Ss instruction  and so couldnt be held liable 
for any loss.
Although Santander didnt  think it should refund Mr S his money, Santander did offer Mr S 
£40 as a gesture of goodwill  which he accepted. 
Mr S then brought  his complaint to our service  and one of our investigators looked  into 
things. Our investigator didnt think Santander  could have done  anything to prevent the scam 
- she didnt consider  the payment Mr S made was particularly out of the ordinary, or so 
unusual that it should have raised Santanders suspicions. And she didnt think  Santander  
missed an opportunity to identify that the payment could potentially  have  been  in relation to a 
scam.
Our investigator also thought Santander  had done  what it could to try and recover Mr Ss 
money once hed reported the scam to them. But unfortunately, the money had already been  
removed. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He didnt raise any new points but requested  that 
an Ombudsman look into things, so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN23909942My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Mr S, and I can understand entirely  why he feels so 
strongly that his money should be returned  to him. But having thought very carefully  about  
Santanders actions,  I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave   
Mr Ss account. I also dont think it could have  done any more than it did to try and recover 
the money.  
So having  considered everything, Im not going  to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I do appreciate  
how disappointing this will be for Mr S, but I dont think  I can fairly say that Santander should 
reimburse him with the £418.86 he has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters  and I think the 
£40.00 that Santander  has paid as a gesture of goodwill is fair and reasonable. Ill explain 
why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
-the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
-regulated firms  like Santander are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6); and
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken
proactive steps  to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
Ref: DRN23909943in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
So in this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably  in its 
dealings with Mr S when he transferred the £418.86  to a fraudster and when he reported  the 
fraud, or whether it should have done  more than it did.
Mr S has accepted that he authorised  the transfer  of £418.86  himself.  Because of this, 
Santander had an obligation to follow his instruction.  But there are some situations in which  
it should reasonably have  had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - 
as Ive explained. I consider that as a matter of good practice Santander shouldve been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
So Ive first thought  about whether the payment Mr S made was out of character and 
unusual. Having reviewed  Mr Ss statements for the six months leading up to the scam, I 
dont think the payment  was so unusual or suspicious  in comparison to Mr Ss normal 
account activity  that it ought to have alerted Santander that Mr S may have been  at risk of 
financial harm.  Mr S had made  several  other transfers for amounts in excess  of £100  
(ranging up to over £600) over a period of six months  so a payment of £418.86  wasnt  
particularly out of character or unusual. So, I dont think  Santander acted unreasonably in 
not making enquiries about the payment  before processing it. 
Ive gone on to think about  whether Santander did what it shouldve  done once Mr S 
reported to it that hed been the victim of a scam. Ive looked  into the attempts Santander 
made to recover the money, once Mr S reported the scam. In order  for me to be able to fairly 
ask Santander  to refund the money to Mr S, I need  to be satisfied Santander should have 
acted sooner in trying  to recover the money. And if I dont  think  it acted soon enough, I need 
to decide whether it made any difference. 
In this case I can see that Santander raised  the claim against the receiving account on the 
same day Mr S told it about the scam   which was the day after he made the payment. But I 
can see the money had unfortunately  already left the receiving account  on the same day    
Mr S made the payment.  So, Santander  wasnt able to recover  the money  Mr S had paid the 
fraudster because it had already been  removed from the recipients account.
I am sorry  that Mr S has lost out, and I appreciate  this is a lot of money for him to have lost. I 
also understand this whole  experience was very frustrating and upsetting  for him. But in the 
circumstances, I dont  think  I can fairly say Santander should refund Mr S his money.  
I can see Santander have  paid Mr S £40 as a gesture of goodwill. I do accept this matter  has 
caused Mr S distress, but because  I havent found  that Santander has done  anything wrong, 
I wont be asking Santander  to pay Mr S anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against  
Santander UK Plc.
Ref: DRN23909944Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2390994