K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) avoided their policy
and refused to pay their claim after they suffered a burglary. They  want RSA to reinstate
their cover and pay their claim. They also want compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience.
background
I set out the background  to this matter in a provisional decision, issued in September 2020. 
A copy of that provisional decision is attached. 
In that decision  I explained that I considered, on the evidence available, that RSA had been  
wrong to void the policy and that the complaint  should be upheld. 
That provisional decision has been  shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Mr and Mrs M responded, indicating that they accepted  my provisional decision.  They  also 
set out what they believed  were  the increased costs to them  in obtaining insurance, after 
they had to declare a previously voided  policy. 
We forwarded those  comments  on to RSA and invited their response on Mr and Mrs Ms 
financial losses. RSA has responded to say that it accepts the main  decision, but it has not 
provided comments on Mr and Mrs Ms financial  losses. 
I have therefore  proceeded to a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I set out that I thought RSA was wrong  to treat Mr and Mrs M as 
having made a qualifying  misrepresentation in relation to the value of their high-risk  items.  
I set out that I therefore thought that RSA should pay Mr and Mrs Ms claim  for jewellery,  up 
to the policy  limit of £10,000. I also thought that RSA should consider any other  parts of Mr 
and Mrs Ms claim  and whether these  would be covered under their policy,  and that RSA 
should consider  any evidence  of financial losses.
RSA and Mr and Mrs M accept the provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs M have  subsequently provided details of what they consider are their financial  
losses. They  have explained that prior to the burglary  their annual premium  was £387.07, 
and after the burglary, when they have also had to declare  a policy  voidance,  their premium 
has been £749 per year in both 2019 and 2020.  Mr and Mrs M believe that this increase  is 
due to the voidance decision.  
These comments have been  forwarded  to RSA and their comments invited.  
Ref: DRN29001582I explained that whilst I understood  that Mr and Mrs Ms premium  would likely have 
increased following  the burglary if RSA had continued to provide cover, without details of 
what their premiums would have been under  ongoing cover I would have to assess the full 
difference in premium (around £360  per year) as being attributable to the voidance decision. 
RSA has not provided any comments in relation  to this.
I therefore consider  that Mr and Mrs M were caused  a financial loss of approximately  £360 
per year by RSAs decision to void their policy, and I think that RSA should reimburse Mr 
and Mrs M for this. 
This part of the award would usually have  interest added to it, but I have not made an award 
for interest  in this case  in order to reflect that Mr and Mrs M would likely have experienced 
increased premium as a result of the burglary and claim. I consider that this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs M will no longer have to declare this voidance 
decision so going  forward their premiums will not be impacted by RSAs  decision to void.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and set out in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs 
Ms complaint and direct  Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
Reinstate Mr and Mrs Ms policy  up to and including the date of loss;
Consider Mr and Mrs Ms claims for items stolen and damaged in the burglary, 
applying all relevant  areas  of cover;
Pay Mr and Mrs Ms claim for high risk items up to a limit of £10,000;
Pay to Mr and Mrs M £720 to reflect their financial loss; and
Pay to Mr and Mrs M £250 compensation to reflect their distress  and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 December 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2900158