K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) when 
he visited their Bramhall branch in November 2018.  
background
Mr C went into the Bramhall branch in November 2018. He wanted to withdraw  money from 
his current account  and then pay some of that cash into his sisters account.  He withdrew 
£105 but when he then asked to deposit £100 into his sisters account he said the cashier 
accused him of trying  to commit fraud. That, he said,  made  him feel victimised  and 
discriminated against because of his race. 
Barclays denied they had done anything  wrong. They  said they had followed their policies 
and processes which is not to allow cash deposits into a third party bank account, unless the 
person making  the transaction has the debit card present or they have a pre-printed paying 
in slip. Mr C had neither  and so they said they couldnt carry out the transaction.  
Barclays explained that the reason they have that policy is to help reduce the risk of fraud 
being committed. Barclays said they hadnt accused  Mr C of trying  to commit fraud, and they 
also denied  that they had been discriminatory.  They went  on to say that in fact Mr C had 
actually been  aggressive towards the cashier  in the branch and also their Operations  Banker 
when he had intervened to try to help.
Mr C was unhappy with Barclays  response and so an investigator from this service  looked 
into the complaint  but didnt think Barclays had done anything  wrong.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators view and so the matter  has been passed  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decisions  are based on the available evidence and where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is more likely to have  happened in light of that evidence and the 
wider circumstances.  
I will not repeat our investigators background summary since it is accurate and full. My own 
background summary has been necessarily brief to avoid repetition.  So if I havent  
mentioned something  it is not that Ive ignored it, rather that I think  its not relevant. This 
approach allows me to concentrate upon  the determinative issues and avoiding  becoming 
distracted by those  which are peripheral.
Its very clear that Mr C became frustrated when  he was unable to make  the pay payment 
into his sisters account. I can readily  understand his frustration as he had gone out of his 
way, and to considerable lengths, to attend  the Bramhall branch just for that purpose.  
I can also appreciate that Mr C might view Barclays policies and procedures as unfair,  and 
even that he might feel he was treated unfairly  when he saw other customers  paying money 
Ref: DRN28321632into their accounts. But what I need  to decide is whether Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably in how it dealt with Mr C. 
Barclays are entitled to implement measures designed to combat fraud. That is a reasonable 
step to take and is for the benefit of both Barclays and its customers.  In my view,  this 
particular policy is reasonable, since money  can be paid into a third partys bank account 
provided the person has the debit  card or a pre-printed paying  in slip. 
I have seen that our investigator has checked Barclays web site which highlights these 
requirements, and it shows that Barclays are applying  this particular policy  to all of their 
customers. 
I therefore cannot say that Barclays have treated Mr C any differently to anyone else,  since 
the policy applies to everyone. I know Mr C believes  that this is discrimination but there is 
simply no evidence of that, and so I do not accept Barclays have acted in that manner.
Ive also considered the service Mr C received  in the branch. I accept that the cashier will 
have told Mr C the reason  why he was unable to pay money into his sisters account was 
because of their policy  to attempt to reduce fraud. I can accept  she will have used  the word  
fraud, in order to give the explanation But that doesnt mean that she accused Mr C of being 
a fraudster. In fact, there is no evidence that she did. If she had she thought Mr C was trying 
to commit a fraud she would no doubt  have alerted the authorities,  which  she did not. 
The balance of evidence  shows  that Barclays followed their procedures and didnt deal with 
Mr C unfairly when  he was in the branch.  So, I cant say that Barclays has done  anything 
wrong, and Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2832163