K822xcomplaint
Mr S is unhappy with Santander  UK Plc because his chargeback  didnt go ahead.
background 
In May 2018, Mr S booked a hotel through  a third-party  he used his Santander debit card 
to secure the booking.  But when  he arrived at the hotel, he says the room  he expected was 
already booked  and the replacement room didnt  meet the description  hed seen  when he 
booked it.
Mr S declined to stay there. Hed already  paid a deposit, but says the hotel staff told him the 
balance wouldnt be taken. Mr S then complained to the third-party hed booked through   
and a day later says the balance had been taken  from his debit card account after all.
Mr S says the third-party  advised him to contact his bank  directly, but they did offer Mr S half 
of his original deposit.
Santander started the chargeback process  on Mr Ss behalf  a procedure where the bank 
and the merchant (in this case the hotel) resolve  disputes between themselves. As part of 
this process, Santander asked Mr S to complete a disclaimer and answer  certain questions. 
Once he had done this, Santander asked him for more information and Mr S replied again.
In August  2018,  Santander let Mr S know that the chargeback couldnt go ahead because  he 
hadnt given them all the information theyd asked  for. And when  he complained in 
September, they also said he was now out of time,  as Santander needed that information 
within 120 days of his cancelled booking.
Unhappy with this answer, Mr S brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator said he didnt think Santander  had done everything they should have  they 
hadnt made Mr S aware that he only had 120 days to provide all the information. He also 
thought Mr S had answered all the questions Santander had asked  him. But he also pointed  
out that  as the chargeback hadnt gone through  he couldnt  know if it wouldve been 
successful or not. So, as a resolution  to Mr Ss complaint, he asked Santander to 
compensate Mr S £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Santander agreed with this  but Mr S didnt. So the complaint has been  passed to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done that Im also upholding 
Mr Ss complaint  but Ive increased  the amount of compensation to £200.
Ive already let Santander and Mr S know this  and below is my full reasoning.
Ref: DRN29293532Under certain circumstances, consumers  can ask their card issuer to reverse  payments 
made on their card  by raising  a chargeback.  Individual card schemes have their own rules  
that the card issuer  have to apply. And the rules that apply to the type of card Mr S has say 
that the chargeback must be brought  within 120 days of the date the goods or services  were 
due to be received   in this case,  his cancellation of the hotel room booking.
By my calculations, Mr S needed to provide all the information Santander  had asked for by 
no later than 26 August  2018. So Ive looked into whether  Mr S did this.
I can see that Mr S raised a chargeback with Santander in June 2018 and was asked to 
complete a disclaimer. Mr S returned this to Santander in July 2018   hed not completed all 
of it. But hed signed it and included: evidence of his booking confirmation, a description of 
why he was unhappy with the hotel, what he'd done to sort things out with the merchant and 
confirmed the third partys  response.
Shortly after this, Santander wrote to Mr S and said: We just need  a bit more  information so 
we can look into your claim. And they asked for the following:
a description of what was wrong  with the hotel
the cancellation date
details of how Mr S had tried to resolve the dispute with the hotel
and any additional  information Mr S thought was important
Mr S replied  at the end of July 2018,  saying:
the hotel wasn't  as described
confirmed the room was cancelled on 28 May 2018
the hotel listing was misleading and he'd been advised to contact Santander
and the additional information  was with his original disclaimer, pointing  out the value 
of his deposit hadn't been included in the claim  amount
He also included evidence of his booking confirmation and his original response  to Santander.
At the beginning  of August 2018,  Santander  wrote  to Mr S. They  said theyd reviewed his 
information, but as he hadn't given  them  everything theyd asked for, they couldn't process 
his claim further.
But looking  at the questions Santander asked and the answers Mr S gave, I think  he has 
answered these reasonably.
Santander have  also let us know that Mr Ss testimony alone wasnt  enough  and he 
needed to show  evidence. But I cant see they made Mr S aware of this.
Mr S also complained to Santander about  his declined claim on 24 September  2018  two 
days before  the 120 days were up. They replied  to Mr S on 28 September   two days after 
the 120 days were up. But its only in their response  by which  time it was too late for the 
chargeback to be actioned  that Santander made Mr S aware of this time limit. And I 
havent seen anything that shows they informed him of this any sooner.
In summary,  I think Mr S did provide the information  that Santander asked him for. And if 
Santander needed different information or evidence, I cant  see how they made  this clear 
enough when  they repeated their request again.  I also cant see that they made  Mr S aware 
of the time limits before  it was too late.
Ref: DRN29293533As this led to Mr Ss chargeback not being submitted to the merchant, I think  Santander 
needs to do something  to put things right.
putting things right 
The rules, including  timescales, are set by the card scheme  in this case, Visa,  not 
Santander. As thats the case, it is now too late to apply a chargeback.  Also, I cant  know  
whether Mr Ss chargeback wouldve been successful or not  so I dont think it would be fair 
to simply ask Santander to pay Mr S the money  he mightve got back.  Mr S does also have 
the option of going  back directly to the merchant  although I appreciate  the merchant has 
already directed him back  to the third party he booked the hotel  room  through.
But I think Santander shouldve done  a lot more to help Mr S understand the information  
they were after  and once  hed provided it twice, they couldve been explicit  about what it 
was they still needed.  But they werent. They couldve  also explained how long he had in 
which to make the chargeback. And their failure  to do this has caused Mr S some distress  
and inconvenience.  So, Im asking Santander to pay Mr S £200 to put things right.
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint against  Santander UK Plc and they should  put things 
right by following  what Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Guy Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2929353