K820x#14complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about CIS General Insurance Limiteds decision on a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
background 
Mr L made a claim for damage caused  to his car while  it was parked at an airport.
CIS investigated matters and obtained an independent engineers report and 
evidence from one of its approved repairers and the airport  parking operator. 
CIS considered all the evidence and said that while it trusted  Mr Ls version of events  
the evidence didnt support all of the damage  occurring  as a one off event such as, 
but not limited  to, vandalism. As a result  it said it couldnt consider settling all the 
damage as a single  vandalism claim.  And a number of individual  claims would have  
to be made for each  area of damage.
But CIS accepted  it had kept the car at the approved repairer  a few weeks longer 
than expected, that there was damage  to a wing mirror  and it had delayed  
responding to some  correspondence. It said it had repaired the mirror and paid Mr L 
£75 compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience this had all caused him.
Mr L remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. 
After investigating  our investigator  felt CIS had acted reasonably and concluded the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr L doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The parties have  provided detailed submissions  in this complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Having done so, Ive decided this complaint  should not be upheld  for these reasons:
Its not for me to decide  when the damage  Mr L reported occurred or if some or all of 
it was caused  in one incident or by vandalism while at the in the airport carpark. But I 
can consider whether  CIS has conducted a reasonable investigation into the claim 
when making its claims decision on it.
Overall I think  CIS has investigated  matters  reasonably. It considered the vehicles 
damage and what  Mr L said and the evidence  he provided.  It also obtained evidence  
from its approved repairer and obtained an independent engineers report. That 
report noted a number of separate areas of damage and said some wasnt  consistent  
Ref: DRN26614062with vandalism and for various reasons it was impossible to determine what  had 
happened. 
I think its fair for CIS to rely on the evidence  from and expert view of the independent 
engineer. Theres  also no evidence from the airport operator to substantiate 
vandalism to Mr Ls car. As a result I think CIS conclusion that there isnt enough 
evidence to show on balance that all the damage was caused  by vandalism is a fair 
one. And its also reasonable for it to suggest each area of damage should be the 
subject of a new and separate claim.
 
CIS has accepted  it couldve  handled some aspects of the claim better and that the 
car was kept at the approved repairers  for too long.  And its paid £75 compensation 
for this. Taking everything into account, including the level of awards we make, I think  
thats fair.
Theres also nothing to show on balance that the issue  with the sunroof was caused 
by the engineer. So, I cant fairly  or reasonably ask CIS to do anything  about this.
I note CIS has recently  offered to write  off Mr Ls car as an alternative  to him 
submitting a number  of claims  for all the areas  of damage. And its said it is prepared  
to deal with this write off as one claim with one £150 excess  payable. That means  it 
will either pay Mr L the cars market value  of £2,200 less the £150  excess or allow 
him to keep it after a deduction of a further  £726 for the salvage value. In either case  
the car will be recorded as a write  off. Overall  I think this is a fair and reasonable 
resolution of Mr Ls claim and this complaint.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. And I simply leave it to Mr L to now decide 
if he wants to accept  CIS offer and take up either  option available  if he agrees to the car 
being written off. 
Ref: DRN26614063my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against CIS General Insurance  
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2661406