K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) turned down his claim for 
benefit under a group income protection policy. 
background
Mr B is a member of his employers group income protection policy.
In September  2017, Mr Bs employer changed  his job role. He stopped work shortly after 
this, as he found the new role was causing  him stress and anxiety. He made a claim to L&G,  
but this was turned down as L&G thought his absence was due to workplace issues  rather  
than a medical condition. Mr B disagreed  and brought a complaint  to this service.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  L&Gs decision to 
turn down the claim was reasonable. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators findings,  so the matter has been  passed to me for 
consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
A claim  will be paid under  the policy, after a waiting period of 26 weeks,  if Mr B is unable to 
perform the essential  duties of his occupation due to illness or injury. 
In December 2017, Mr B was assessed by a rehabilitation nurse.  He explained hed found  
his new role quite  demanding, as hed never dealt with that type of work before and was 
given little training.  Hed been referred for cognitive  behavioural  therapy (CBT) by his GP, 
but wasnt keen  on taking medication. He also explained a close  relative had sadly recently 
passed away. The rehab  nurse thought that when Mr B was able to discuss and identify a 
suitable resolution to the perceived issues at work  with management, there should be no 
reason why he wouldnt be fit to return to work  in January  2018.  The nurse noted he was 
waiting for CBT through the NHS, and offered him access to this. Mr B turned down this offer 
as he wanted  to wait for it through his GP. 
In January 2018, Mr B was assessed by Dr M (occupational physician). Dr M thought  Mr B 
was experiencing moderate anxiety and depression, and concluded that he wasnt  fit for 
work at that time. She explained Mr B thought part of his difficulty  was work-related. Dr M 
thought that when Mr B started  CBT and possibly medication, his condition  would  improve. If 
that happened, she thought Mr B would be fit to work in approximately three weeks, and 
suggested a phased return to work.
In February 2018,  Mr B was again assessed by a rehab nurse. Mr B explained he was still 
waiting for CBT through the NHS. The nurse again offered him access to this, but he 
preferred to wait for it with the NHS.  The nurse noted hed had no contact with management 
regarding the issues which  led to his absence and how they might be resolved. The nurse 
thought Mr Bs absence  was caused  solely by work-related factors,  but she thought his 
recent bereavement may also have had an adverse effect. The nurse was of the opinion 
there wouldnt be a medical  solution  to the situation and thought  the priority was for Mr B and 
Ref: DRN24721882his management  to engage  about  the perceived  issues he had around  his role, and reach an 
agreement so that he might feel able to return to work. 
In February and March  2018, Mr B had further occupational health assessments.  It was 
noted that both personal and workplace issues contributed to his symptoms. And he was 
aware that work-related  stressors would need to be addressed with his employer. He had 
started CBT and his mood was gradually  improving.  However, it was thought he remained 
unfit for work  at the time.
On 27 March 2018, Mr B was assessed by another occupational health physician. She 
thought he should continue with counselling, but also thought a return to work was vitally 
important to provide  him with further  improvement in his wellbeing. She said it was essential  
that management meet with him to discuss any perception of work issues. She 
recommended a phased return starting  with half his normal  hours for two weeks,  increasing 
this for a further  two weeks, then returning  full-time  after this. 
On 10 April 2018, Mr Bs GP wrote  a letter to say that since  Mr Bs occupational review  
found he could  return to work, he had relapsed  and felt similar  to when he originally went  off 
sick from work. His GP thought he wasnt ready to return  to work. 
Overall, I think the evidence during the 26 week waiting period supports that workplace  
issues were the main reason for Mr Bs absence (though I appreciate  his bereavement 
contributed to this after he had stopped work). The rehab nurse  thought Mr B could return  to 
work if his workplace issues were resolved. And the occupational health report from March 
2018 also concluded that Mr B could start a phased return to work - however, I accept this 
would probably  only be the case if his employer  engaged with him to address his perceived 
work issues. I dont know if that happened. 
Id like to clarify that the policy provides benefit  if Mr B is unable  to carry out the essential  
duties of a customer  service official because of illness. That means that even if Mr B was 
unable to carry out his specific job with his employer,  a claim would only be payable if he can 
show he wasnt able to carry out the essential  duties of his generic occupation (even with 
another employer). 
Given that the evidence does point  to Mr B having  workplace issues  with his particular 
employer (around  some of the duties of his role in that particular job and the lack of training  
he was given), that doesnt mean  he couldnt carry out the role of customer service official 
elsewhere. I need to consider whether Mr B would  have  been able to work in his occupation 
if he didnt have those  particular workplace issues with his employer. On balance,  I think  its 
likely he would have been able to.  
Mr B has provided some  further medical  evidence after the waiting period ended on 26 April 
2018, and this does support that his condition deteriorated and hasnt improved  despite  him 
taking medication. However, I havent relied upon that evidence in reaching my findings. 
Thats because for the claim to be paid, the evidence needs to show that he couldnt perform  
the main duties of his occupation due to illness  throughout  the 26 week waiting period. As 
Ive said, I dont think the evidence supports that to be the case. 
Whilst I acknowledge my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr B, I think L&Gs 
decision to turn down  the claim was reasonable. 
Ref: DRN24721883my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2472188