K821x#15complaint
Mr V says Towergate Financial (East) Limited gave him the wrong advice about one of his 
personal pension  plans.
background 
Mr V had three pension  plans. He was a member  of a company scheme and he had two 
personal pension  plans. In 2013 he sought advice from Towergate about his retirement.  He 
wanted to understand what income would  be available  to him when he retired, how this 
would vary according  to the age he accessed his funds and what his transfer options were.
Towergate gave  Mr V detailed advice in January 2014. It told him that he should keep his 
pensions with the current providers. Thats because they had features which  made them  
more valuable than the alternatives  available in the market  at the time. Significantly, it told 
Mr V both his personal pensions had a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR).
Mr V was made  redundant in 2015.  Based on the projections Towergate provided  about the 
level of income he could expect when he reached  65, he decided he didn't need to go back  
to work. He didnt think hed need  to boost  his provisions any further and could rely on 
savings and other household income  to see him through until retirement.
In late 2016 Mr V received conflicting  information  from his pension provider about  whether 
the larger of his pension pots did benefit from a GAR.  The last of these communications 
indicated that it did. Mr V says it wasnt until 2019 the position was finally made clear to him 
 there  was no such guarantee associated with this plan.
Mr V has several concerns about  whats happened. As well as his decision  not to return  to 
work, he told us about other choices he and his wife made based  on Towergates 
projections. For example,  theyd taken more holidays, theyd utilised some of their savings  
and his wife had reduced her working hours.
Initially Towergate rejected Mr Vs complaint.  It said even if it had relayed incorrect 
information to him this wouldnt have had a financial impact. Thats because irrespective of 
whether his pensions had a GAR,  his plans did have guaranteed growth rates and given the 
short period  until his retirement it still wouldnt  have  recommended a transfer.
The investigator upheld  Mr Vs complaint. Although he found a GAR had never been in place 
for the larger of his two personal pension  plans, he recognised the disruption to Mr Vs plans 
and the loss of expectation hed experienced as a result of the incorrect  retirement  income 
projections hed received.  He recommended £1,000  compensation.
Mr V didnt agree with the outcome proposed. He didnt think  it reflected the impact of the 
incorrect advice on his current and future  finances.  So, his complaint was passed to me. I 
issued my provisional findings last month  and invited both parties to submit any final 
arguments or evidence.  Mr V disagreed  with my initial conclusions. Ill respond  to the main 
points he raised in this final decision.
Its important to note Mr V has also raised  concerns about things his pension  provider got 
wrong. These are subject of a separate complaint against that firm. My decision here only 
focuses on the acts or omissions of Towergate in providing him with independent financial 
advice.
Ref: DRN24921992my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding this case, but not to the 
extent Mr V would like. Ill explain why.
My starting point is the financial advice Towergate  gave Mr V in 2014.  The main  thrust  of 
that advice was that Mr V shouldnt transfer  his pension pots to another  scheme. Thats  
because he was unlikely  to be able to secure the same or better benefits elsewhere - his 
pensions enjoyed several valuable features.
Towergate says even if it had identified that Mr Vs largest personal pension  pot didnt have 
a GAR, its advice wouldnt have changed. It wouldnt have recommended he transfer funds 
from a risk-free environment with a guaranteed growth rate, especially as he was relatively  
close to retirement. I dont find anything obviously wrong about Towergates  position here.
Towergate couldnt find the information sent by his pension provider, which  had been  used  
as the basis for its advice.  Fortunately, we obtained a copy  from the provider. Having read 
that pack I think its clear the retirement  income projections Towergate  gave Mr V were  
flawed.
I say this because  Towergate told Mr V both his personal pension  plans benefitted  from 
having a GAR. But this wasnt correct  the larger of the two plans didnt have this feature. 
So, when Towergate provided Mr V with a projection  from his largest pension plan it used a 
GAR of 11%. This suggested an annual income of around £15,400 might  be achieved if he 
retired at 65. But the annuity rate which will be secured will be significantly less, which 
means an annual  income  several thousand pounds  a year less than indicated.
To put this into context,  Towergate projected an annual income for Mr V from his three 
pension pots,  if he retired at the age of 65, of around £23,000. It seems the estimate  at the 
time shouldve been  closer to £16,000   around 30% less. This is a significant error.
Mr V was made  redundant in 2015.  Based on Towergates retirement income projections he 
believed he didnt need to go back to work before his pensions  became available when he 
was 65. Mrs V also cut back  on the hours  she worked.  And they took more holidays.
From what  Ive seen I think Mr and Mrs V did rely somewhat on the flawed income 
projections from 2014 to inform important decisions they made about their work/life  balance 
and finances.
As Ive already  said, Ill be looking at the actions  of Mr Vs pension provider separately.  
Nevertheless, I think its important background to understand the sorts of communications  he 
was receiving from it and the influence this is likely  to have had on his actions.
Its very unfortunate  the problems  caused by Towergate were reinforced by some of the 
information Mr V subsequently received  from his pension provider. For example, in 
November 2016  Mr V was told his larger  pension  pot didnt benefit from a GAR.  But a month  
later it confirmed that it did.
Ref: DRN24921993Theres no doubt Mr Vs pension provider has some responsibility for the situation  Mr V 
found himself in - and it will need  to put things  right in that regard. That said, I think  
Towergate must take the main share  of responsibility for what happened.  Mr V was reliant 
on it for independent  expert advice. He wouldve been placing significant weight on what it 
told him about his projected retirement  income.
Towards the end of 2017 Mr V began to consider his pension arrangements again  he was 
a little over a year away from his 65th birthday. He turned to a different financial adviser but 
says he didnt find it particularly helpful.  I can see though, his new adviser did tell him 
verbally his largest  pension pot didnt have  a guaranteed annuity  rate.
putting things right
Towergate argued that irrespective of whether Mr Vs pensions  had a GAR, because  his 
plans did have guaranteed growth  rates and given  his proximity to retirement,  it still wouldnt 
have recommended he transfer his funds. Its saying there wasnt a direct  financial loss to 
Mr V as a result of its advice about  his pension plans.
Its also the case Mr Vs largest  personal  plan had never had a GAR attached to it. So, even 
if hed been given the correct retirement income  forecasts in 2014, he wouldnt have been  
able to build  up his pension provisions to cover the difference between  what the bogus GAR 
based projections suggested  and what his annuity  is likely to be when he buys it.
But I appreciate  Mr V is making  an additional argument. He says the decision making  he and 
his wife made about their work/life arrangements were based  on Towergates flawed advice. 
Hes saying there are consequential  losses to consider.
For example, Mr V says he wouldve gone back to work after being made redundant in 2015 
if hed understood  what  the situation  with his pension  was. He told me:
I did make enquires with an employment agency  (among other positions) with which I had 
already had dealings with previously until my redundancy. They  would be more than happy 
to take me on, and I could  easily earn £30-40,000 or more if I wanted to.
Together with undoing all the other decisions they took including his wifes reduced  working  
hours and the savings  they used, Mr V thinks his current financial position couldve been  
improved by about £40,000  at this point had Towergate got things right.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr V has said. Generally,  consequential losses are 
only recoverable to the extent that they are caused by the original wrongdoing and are a 
reasonably foreseeable consequence of it.
I think its likely Mr and Mrs V wouldve made different decisions if theyd been given the right 
information in 2014. The key period being between when Mr V was made  redundant in 2015 
and when his new financial  adviser  made him aware there wasnt a GAR for his largest 
pension.
The problem here is we dont really know for sure how events mayve  panned  out. Despite 
what Mr V has told me, we cant know for sure what wouldve happened.  Would Mr V have 
secured a new job after being  made redundant? He was approaching retirement age which  
can make  the labour  market tougher. How soon might he have secured a new job? If hed 
got a new role what would his remuneration package have been? What provisions would he 
have been able to make towards his pension  and savings? 
Ref: DRN24921994How would  these outcomes have affected other  decisions they were making about Mrs Vs 
working hours, the holidays they took and about where they would make  their future home?
Im mindful that following  the appointment by Mr V of a new financial adviser in 2017, the fact 
that he didnt have a GAR  associated with his largest pension  plan came to light. Although 
he sought clarification  through his pension provider, he doesnt  seem to have taken other 
mitigating action from that point, for example by seeking employment.
Mr V has also told us that his retirement  planning  was put on hold. While I understand what  
he means, hes known  for some  time now the larger of his personal pension plans didnt 
have a GAR,  and so he shouldve been working  on that basis.
Another complicating factor is that Mr and Mrs Vs recent work/life arrangements havent 
been without benefits to them.
On balance, I think there are too many uncertainties here which  make  recasting what 
mightve happened and weighing any consequential loss fraught with difficulty. Taking  all 
these matters into account, I cant safely conclude Towergate should meet the consequential  
losses Mr V identified.
When Im deciding how to sort out a complaint like this, Ill think about whether its fair to 
award compensation for trouble and upset.  This isnt intended to fine or punish a business  
which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, a businesss recognition 
of the emotional  and practical impact can make  a real difference.
Its likely  Towergates flawed retirement income  projections had an impact  on Mr V and his 
wifes work/life plans. Its difficult to measure the consequential financial effect for the 
reasons Ive set out. But theyve certainly  experienced  a loss of expectation. And theyve 
been caused substantial trouble and upset. So, I require Towergate to pay Mr V £2,000 in 
compensation.
I know that Mr V will be disappointed with this outcome.  I recognise  his arguments which 
arent without merit. And ultimately he doesnt have  to accept my decision, in which case it 
isnt binding on either party. He still has the option  of taking his dispute to court,  although 
obviously hed need to take advice  about  that. If Mr V does accept this decision, its legally 
binding  so Towergate would have  to do what Ive said.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, Im upholding this complaint.  Towergate  Financial (East) Limited  
must pay Mr V the redress Ive directed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2492199