K820x#14complaint
Mr L says The IPS Partnership plc (trading as James Hay Administration Company Ltd 
(JH)) mismanaged arrangements related to the commercial property asset he transferred 
into his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) in 2009. JH administers the SIPP. 
Mr L queries JHs records of a deposit  payment (arising after renewal of a lease that ended 
in 2009) and of rental income (since 2010) within the SIPP;  he says he had to engage an 
accountant privately in order  to clarify  and correct  JHs erroneous  records  and he holds  JH 
responsible for the associated costs; he also holds  JH responsible for income tax he says he 
incurred in wrongly treating a deposit  payment  from the SIPP  as income  which he says he 
subsequently returned to the SIPP; in this respect  he says JHs mismanagement  included a 
failure to ringfence  the deposit  payment, which led to its availability for withdrawal; and, 
overall, he says JHs mismanagement and poor service has caused an irretrievable 
breakdown of their relationship, so he seeks a transfer (out) of his SIPP  with a waiver of JHs 
transfer fees.
An ombudsman previously decided that the issue about ringfencing of the deposit payment  
is out of time and beyond this services jurisdiction.  
background
JH disputes the complaint. Its position  is mainly  as follows:
Mr Ls SIPP was/is set upon  IPS Pensions Ltd (trading as JH) undertaking the role of 
SIPP administrator, a third-party  firm undertaking the role of 
independent/professional Trustee of the SIPP, Mr L undertaking  the role of member 
(and joint) Trustee of the SIPP and Mr L undertaking the role of self-manager of the 
SIPP/the SIPPs assets. It submitted documentation in support of this description, 
including the property resolution  agreement  (for the commercial property asset)  
signed by Mr L in February  2009, the SIPP transfer related property questionnaire 
(for the commercial property asset) signed by him in the same  month  and the 
commercial property  related terms for the SIPP.
Mr L was responsible for the management  of his SIPP and of the commercial 
property asset  (including rent collection and the management of, and record keeping 
for, rent receipts and deposit receipts). JH bears  and shares  no responsibility in this 
respect. It conducted  a reconciliation  of rent receipts for Mr Ls property in 2019  and 
considered that it had identified rent arrears owed  by the tenant. However,  Mr L and 
his accountant  disputed this and said no such arrears exist in their 
calculations/records. For this reason, it withdrew  its view on the matter and it does 
not seek to dispute  Mr Ls position that no such arrears exist.
There is ample documentary evidence showing successive communications  to and 
from Mr L in which he was informed  and reminded of the existence of the £5,000 
deposit and of his responsibility to set up an account for the purpose of holding it in a 
separate and ringfenced state.  He failed to do this, despite receiving repeated 
reminders  including a reminder  of his self-management  responsibility  in this respect 
 and despite his agreement in 2010 to do so. JH bears and shares  no responsibility 
in this respect.
Ref: DRN22975072JH has committed no wrongdoing in Mr Ls SIPP,  its transfer fees apply generally to 
its clients and it does  not consider that there are grounds to justify  waiving those fees 
in his case. It accepts  that there  are some discrepancies in the reconciliation of rent 
receipts it conducted in 2019 but it retains  the position that it was Mr Ls sole 
responsibility to manage the rent receipts, so its reconciliation exercise  the result of 
which Mr L and his account disagree  with  are inconsequential. In any case, and 
without admission of liability, it is prepared to extend a goodwill offer to him of £250, 
towards his accountants fees.
Mr L considers that JH should be responsible for the total of his accountants  fees, not just 
£250. He retains  all his original claims and he is unhappy that merit in his claim about  the 
deposit payment  ringfencing issue has been supressed by the Ombudsmans finding that the 
issue is out of time.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint   except  the deposit  payment ringfencing  
issue  and concluded it should not be upheld. In the main, he reached  this conclusion for 
broadly the same reasons  as those given by JH. Mr L disagreed  with this outcome and 
repeated his displeasure about being deprived  treatment of the deposit  payment ringfencing  
issue. One of our case reviewers looked  into the case and acknowledged that the errors in 
JHs reconciliation exercise might  explain why Mr L found its outcome document  difficult  to 
understand and in need of correction by his accountant. It was in response to this suggestion 
that JH made its without  prejudice goodwill offer but maintained that record keeping was   Mr 
Ls responsibility  not JHs.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Ls strength of feeling  about the deposit payment ringfencing issue. 
However, without jurisdiction to do so I cannot consider its merits  and this service has 
already determined that we do not have such  jurisdiction. I make no finding on the matter  of 
responsibility for ringfencing the deposit payment (or for failure to do so). On this basis, the 
claim about an income tax related consequence from the deposit payment being  wrongly  
made to Mr L, and not being ringfenced, would also appear to be outside our jurisdiction.
Having said the above, it is somewhat implicit that the overall matter of responsibility  for 
managing, and record keeping for, Mr Ls SIPPs commercial property asset  which is within 
our jurisdiction  inevitably provides the opportunity for findings that should inform  him on 
how the deposit payment ringfencing matter would have been  determined if we had 
jurisdiction to address  it. In other  words,  the party found to have  such  responsibility for the 
property would naturally be accountable for all relevant aspects of that responsibility. I make 
this point to address Mr Ls suggestion  that his complaint has been denied  fair consideration. 
It has not. The Ombudsmans finding  on our jurisdiction applies but, even with that finding, 
Mr Ls complaint has still received fair consideration because the key issue of responsibility  
for managing his SIPP commercial property asset  has been considered and determined.
Having done so, my conclusion  is that the management responsibility (and everything 
associated with that) rested wholly upon Mr L. Evidence suggests that he appears to have 
confused JHs role as administrator for the SIPP with the role of manager of the SIPP. JH 
Ref: DRN22975073was the former, not the latter. In making  this finding, I have been persuaded by the following 
evidence:
The terms set out for the SIPP, specifically for the holding of commercial property 
within it, included a Property management section  that explained the choice  
between direct self-management  by the member  or,  for Partnership  SIPPs  only 
, professional property  management. The former applied to Mr L and his SIPP.  His 
overall responsibility, as set out in the document, included rent collection and 
payment to the SIPP; the maintenance of records related to rent, rent reviews, lease 
events, valuations and service charge management;  and the submission of 
accounting for rent receipts, within an annual  property return,  to JH and the SIPP.
The property questionnaire  Mr L signed in 2009  included confirmation that he had 
read and understood the above  terms and that his commercial  property asset will be 
independently managed;  confirmation  that it was his responsibility to ensure effective 
management in this respect  including  the collection  of rents ; that as the 
member Trustee of the SIPP he was also the property manager for the trustees; and 
that, in terms of meeting HMRC related rent reconciliation and reporting 
requirements, JH (as the SIPP administrator) relied  upon  Mr Ls rent 
reconciliation/records annually in order to administer  the HMRC reporting  for the 
SIPP and on his behalf. 
The property resolution  agreement Mr L signed  in 2009 made clear that investment 
powers for and duties  related to the SIPPs assets were delegated  to him as the 
SIPPs member Trustee;  that  responsibility  for procuring suitable and adequate 
rent collection procedures  such that these payments are received (or made) in an 
expedient and timely  fashion also belonged to him; and that these responsibilities  
were not shared with the SIPPs  administrator or its independent/professional 
Trustee.
Mr L was repeatedly informed at the outset  and he agreed at the outset  that he would be 
the manager for the commercial property  asset within  his SIPP.  I have not seen evidence of 
any event or agreement between the parties that had the effect of varying this arrangement 
since it was put in place in 2009.  
As noted in the points above,  responsibility for rent and lease  events (which  would include a 
deposit payment  for a renewed lease)  and for the associated collection and record  keeping 
duties  belonged, only, to Mr L. His complaint, broadly  premised on the notion that JH either  
owned or shared this responsibility, therefore  appears to be misplaced.  Like the case  
reviewer, I too have  considered the effect of the errors  in JHs 2019 rent reconciliation  
exercise and I too consider that they would have  been unhelpful. However,  this does not 
devalue in any way the fact that the exercise was surplus to requirement  and that it was     
Mr Ls responsibility, primarily and solely, to conduct  such  reconciliations  annually  and to 
report them  to JH  as opposed to reporting  the other way around. I do not suggest that Mr L 
did not discharge this responsibility and it is clear from his engagement with his accountant 
that he took the responsibility seriously,  but the point is that the responsibility  was always  his 
to discharge. It did not result from any failing or wrongdoing  by JH.
In the above context, I consider that any alleged mismanagement  of the lease renewal  
deposit payment,  resulting in the tax Mr L has referred to, is a matter remote to JH; that 
costs he incurred in the course  of rent collection and/or accounting  for rents  collected and/or 
reconciling rents collected annually were within his self-management  responsibility and is 
Ref: DRN22975074another matter  remote to JH; that the errors  in JHs rent reconciliation exercise were 
unhelpful but they were arguably insignificant because that exercise was not for Mr L to rely 
upon; that, instead, the agreed terms stated the reverse  that is, for JH to rely upon rent 
reconciliation conducted  by Mr L; and  that  JHs goodwill  offer for the trouble and upset 
caused by the matter  is reasonable.  It is noteworthy that Mr L rejected JHs rent 
reconciliation exercise, so its effect  was notably limited.
Given the above findings, and on balance, I do not consider that there  are grounds to 
conclude a waiver  of JHs transfer fee is something Mr L is fairly and reasonably entitled to. 
He retains the right,  and discretion, to regard his relationship with JH as being  irretrievably  
broken and to transfer his SIPP if he wishes, but it is JHs standard practice to apply a fee to 
its clients for such a transfer  and there  appears to be no good  reason why that should not be 
the case for Mr L. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2021.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2297507