K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about AWP P&C SAs settlement of his travel  insurance claim. My 
references to AWP include its agents 
Mr A will note that my decision is against  a different  business to the one referred to by our 
investigator, which was AWPs  agent.  AWP is the insurer of the policy  and the correct 
business for my decision to be about,  and it hasnt  objected. The change  of business hasnt 
affected the outcome of my decision.
background
Mr A left the following items on a coach, worth  in total about  £320: a watch, airpods, lightning 
usb cable, usb-c multiport adapter. He claimed on his travel insurance.
AWP accepted the claim and paid Mr A £100. Mr A is unhappy with the settlement as he 
says the policy limit for personal possessions is £750. Hes also concerned AWP hasnt 
taken into account  the loss report he provided showed the loss was reported within 24 hours.
AWP said the items claimed were defined as valuables under the policy  and it correctly 
applied the valuables limit of £100.
Our investigator thought AWP had paid a fair settlement  for the claim.
Mr A disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He referred to the policy  definition  of  
personal possessions   each of your suitcases, trunks and similar containers (including 
their contents) and articles worn or carried by you (including your valuables). Mr A said if 
that definition  specifically mentioned including your valuables the £750 limit should apply 
and the £100 valuables  limit was contradictory. He also said he was wrongly assured that 
everything was covered  when he bought the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr As comment that he was told he was fully covered when he bought the policy.  If 
Mr A wishes  to make a separate complaint about the sale of the policy  he will need  to first 
complain to the appropriate business before we can consider any mis-sale complaint.
This decision is about whether AWP has paid a fair and reasonable settlement for Mr As 
claim, and I think it has. 
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
The policy says Mr A is covered:
Up to the amount  shown  in your summary of cover in total for your personal  possessions  
lost  on your outbound  journey or homebound  journey. The most  we will pay for valuables  
(is) shown in your summary of cover  in total whether  jointly owned or not. There is also a 
single article, pair or set limit up to the amount shown  in your summary of cover.
Ref: DRN28237892The summary cover clearly sets out there's a personal possession limit of £750 and a 
valuables limit of £100.
I understand Mr As point  about the personal possessions definition.  But although valuables 
are defined as personal possessions,  Im satisfied the policy is clear that valuables have 
their own claim  limit, within  the £750 overall limit.
The policy definition of valuables  means the watch is a valuable. The other  items are 
equipment used with a phone and/or computer so they are also defined as valuables.
AWP paid Mr A £100 for the claim which is the most  it has to pay him under the policy. 
AWP told Mr A it accepted his claim as a gesture of goodwill because  there was no evidence  
the loss was reported within 24 hours. Mr A says the document  hes provided  does  show  the 
report time. But AWP has already paid Mr A the maximum it needs to whether or not AWP 
took the report time information into account. It doesnt need  to pay any more for the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2823789