K822xcomplaint
Mr T complained about how U K Insurance Limited valued his car and handled his personal
information after he made a claim under his policy.
background
After Mr Ts car was damaged UKI decided that it was uneconomical to repair.  They  offered
him what they said was his cars  market value.  But he didnt think this was enough. He was
also unhappy that the new owner of his car had contacted  him after obtaining Mr Ts
personal information from the car. But UKI said their market value offer was fair and that it
was his responsibility to remove his personal  information. So he brought his complaint to us.
The adjudicator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She thought  that UKI
hadnt given him his cars fair market value and that they should compensate him for the
distress hed experienced due to someone  accessing his personal  information. Neither UKI
nor Mr T agreed and so Mr Ts complaint  was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 August, saying that I intended  to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. Both Mr T and UKI have  said that theyre willing to accept my decision and so I 
now finalise it here.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
cars market  value
Mr Ts car insurance  policy says that UKI will pay his cars  market value at the time of the
loss, less the excess. Market Value is defined in his policy  as the cost of replacing his car
with another of the same make and model and of similar age and condition at the time of the
accident or loss. The adjudicator explained our approach regarding complaints about car
valuations. We dont  decide what the market  value of a car is; we merely  consider whether
or not the insurer  has reached a fair and reasonable amount having  regard to the valuations
in the motor trade guides, as well as any other evidence the parties  may provide.
That evidence might include  advertisements detailing the sale prices  of similar cars, but we
generally find the guides to be more reliable. The figures in the guides  are based on
extensive research  undertaken throughout the country of likely selling prices. These guides
take into account features such as mileage, year of registration, make  and model  as well as
any optional extras. We think that the fair approach for an insurer to assess market  value is
to average the amounts detailed in the trade guides, less any policy  excess. So I looked at 
whether UKI assessed Mr Ts cars market value fairly and reasonably.
In their final response letter to Mr Ts complaint UKI said that they calculated his cars market
value by taking  the trade  guide figure as a start then deducting £100 for mileage  and £600
for Regional  Market  Trends. Mr T didnt agree with the £600 deduction. The adjudicator
queried this with UKI as we dont think that regional  variation  assessments are generally
appropriate, for the reasons above. In response  to the adjudicators  queries, UKI suggested
that their £600 deduction was actually because the car had damage that wasnt  related to
the accident. 
Ref: DRN22453982Thats something we think that insurers can make deductions for. And it
doesnt seem to be in dispute that the car had some damage which hadnt been caused  in
the accident. But while UKI said that the cars  damage was pre-existing damage,  Mr T said it
was post-accident damage which happened due to the actions of UKIs recovery agents. He
said theyd left his car on the road,  where it got damaged again.  So he felt that any damage
was UKIs  fault and they shouldnt make  any deduction for it.
It seems  that, whatever UKI thought about the cause of the damage, they did recalculate the
market value and removed the £600 deduction because of Mr Ts claims about the cause of
the damage. And they said that instead they used the average  of the selling prices of similar
cars within close proximity to our insured that could have been purchased for the amount  of
our settlement. The average they came up with was about  £11,123,  but they rounded  it up
to £11,350.
But Mr T said he couldnt actually buy a similar car for the amount UKI offered. He thought
that UKI were trying to make a deduction  for his cars non-accident damage but just covering
that up by calling it a regional reduction. I could see why he might think that, because  I 
thought that UKIs explanations to him, and to us, have been less than clear.  But in the end I 
didnt think that UKIs  deduction was for the damage. I thought  that, as they said, they took 
the average of similar cars  selling  prices, rather than the average of the guide prices.  And 
so I didnt think that was fair. So overall  I was not satisfied that UKI valued Mr Ts car in a fair 
and reasonable way by reference to established guidelines. But I didnt think that 
apportioning the cost of the non-accident damage  was the best way to see that UKI did pay 
Mr T a fair market  value.  Instead I thought a fairer approach  was to follow the guidelines and 
take the adjudicators assessments of the two available trade guides and average them. The 
adjudicator found  the market value of those guides  to be about  £11,950  and £11,215, 
making an average of about £11,582. This is £232  more than the £11,350 UKI offered Mr T, 
less excess. Subject to the £100  mileage deduction, that makes a difference of £132.  And so 
I thought that UKI should pay Mr T £132, plus interest.
Personal data
After the accident  Mr T said that he was contacted by someone who said he was the new
owner of Mr Ts car. Mr T said this person had accessed his text messages, and his
telephone number and those of family  and friends, from the cars computer system.
Mr T was upset  that UKI hadnt done anything to protect his privacy before they sold his car
on. UKI said that they hadnt erased the car computer but that it was Mr Ts responsibility  to
do this. But they said that they would in future put procedures in place to remind  customers
to delete their personal information and remove personal items from the car.
But I didnt think that removing ones personal  possessions was the same  thing  as erasing a
cars computer memory. And so I didnt  think UKIs  view was reasonable, particularly as 
theres no persuasive evidence that Mr T knew UKI would  sell his car on, rather than simply 
scrap it. If so, there  would have been  no need to clear his cars computer memory.  And so I 
thought that UKI did have a responsibility  to say something to Mr T about  erasing his data. 
And it followed that they should compensate him for any distress caused  by them  not doing 
so.
Both Mr T and UKI said that they would accept my provisional decision and so I dont 
change that. 
Ref: DRN22453983my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above  and in my provisional decision, its my final decision 
that I uphold  this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr T £132, plus 8% simple interest per annum from the valuation  date until date
            of settlement
Pay Mr T £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused by his
            personal information remaining accessible to the cars new owner.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell them  Mr T 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If UKI consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from interest, they should tell Mr  T how much they have taken off, and give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2245398