K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Lloyds Bank Plc failed to update them  on their investment 
accounts and have not responded to their request for information.
background
Mr and Mrs A say they had two investment  accounts with company A and company B. They  
lived overseas and the accounts where managed  by a Lloyds  branch  on behalf of company 
A and B. 
In September  2018, Mr and Mrs A wrote  to Lloyds to ask for an update on their investments 
as they hadnt received any communications. They sent this request via recorded  delivery  
and retained the proof of delivery.  No response was received from Lloyds, so they brought  
their complaint to this service. 
In response to the complaint, Lloyds  say theyve been unable  to trace the accounts. They 
say its possible the accounts were once managed by them  as Mr and Mrs A have said but 
theres nothing to suggest thats  still the case. 
Our investigator said she was unable  to uphold the complaint because she couldnt say that 
Lloyds still managed the two investment accounts and that they had been unable  to trace the 
accounts. She asked  them to contact company A and B directly to obtain further information.
Mr and Mrs A were  unhappy with the investigators response,  so this has come  to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont  think it should be 
upheld. I will explain  why.
proof of delivery 
Mr and Mrs A say they sent their request for information to Lloyds, but they didnt respond.  
They sent this via recorded  delivery and have provided a proof of delivery for their request. I 
have looked at the letter they sent which is addressed  to Bristol. The proof  of delivery  Ive 
seen is for a London  address. Whilst I accept  that Mr and Mrs A may have sent their request 
via recorded delivery,  I cant say that the proof  theyve provided  is for the correct  business 
address for Lloyds.  Mr and Mrs A havent  been able to provide any further evidence, so I 
cant say with any certainty that this was the right address for Lloyds or that they received 
the request for information.  
investment accounts
Mr and Mrs A have  provided a statement of accounts dating  between 1994-1997 which they 
say confirm Lloyds  was the agent and financial adviser of the accounts in the names of 
company A and company  B. I can see from this that the accounts did exist and that these 
were active  accounts with a balance. My concern is that these account statements are more  
than twenty years old. Mr and Mrs A have  been unable to provide me anything more  recent  
confirming these accounts still exist. I also appreciate that the local Lloyds  branch that Mr 
Ref: DRN25648122and Mrs A say managed  these accounts no longer exists, so its been difficult to obtain  any 
further information. 
The details weve provided Lloyds have been  limited  to the information Mr and Mrs A have 
been able to give us and no other details are available. Lloyds confirm that theyve been 
unable to trace any investment accounts for Mr and Mrs A and that the most recent 
communication they received related  to their deposit  account  not any investment accounts 
as they suggested. 
The investigator has attempted  to contact both company A and B with the information  that 
was available  but wasnt able to successfully  progress this complaint.  Mr and Mrs A should 
try to seek  further information  that will help trace the accounts and then contact company A 
and B directly to obtain an update.  
I understand Mr and Mrs As frustration  with this process, and I accept that its likely that 
these accounts  were once  managed by Lloyds,  but that doesnt necessarily mean these  
accounts continued to be managed by them. The lapse of time would most  likely  have 
brought about some changes in the way that these accounts were managed particularly as 
Lloyds would have  been acting as agents  and didnt directly  hold these accounts.  This would 
explain why theyve been unable to trace the accounts. Looking at the limited  information 
thats available,  I cant say that Lloyds  have acted unfairly or that they have been 
unreasonable, so I wont  be asking them to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint against  Lloyds  Bank 
PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 June  2020.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2564812