K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited (trading as Autonet Insurance 
Services Limited) wrongly cancelled  his motor insurance policy without explaining  why.
background
When Mr H took a policy out through Autonet on 13 October 2018 he had already completed 
an online  application. Hed declared a driving offence and penalty  points  from August  2018. 
But Autonet noted that Mr H hadnt declared a claim he made in 2016. The insurer required 
a further £83.13 in premium as a result of the claim,  and Autonet  charged him £14.95  as an 
administration fee. It wrote to Mr H to say he had to pay the extra £98.08  within seven days. 
As Mr H didnt  do so, it gave him seven days notice of cancellation on 22 October 2018. But 
it didnt cancel the policy then and sent a further  cancellation notice on 30 October 2018.
Mr H said Autonet didnt tell him what the extra payment was for until after the policy was 
cancelled. He said an advisor he asked about it on 22 October 2018 was clueless.  Autonet 
apologised for not responding to an email Mr H sent it on 31 October 2018 saying hed 
provided the details  it wanted. It removed its £79.95 cancellation charge to make up for its 
error. Mr H thought the cancellation was wrong because hed provided  proof  of three  years  
no claims discount (NCD) which he thought showed he hadnt  made  a claim in 2016.  
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Hs complaint. Although Mr H said he didnt get 
Autonets letters prior to the cancellation, the investigator said it had shown they were sent. 
He thought the advisor Mr H contacted on 22 October 2018  had explained  why the extra 
premium was due, but could have said more about  it. He thought  Autonet acted reasonably  
in waiving the cancellation fee to make up for not replying  to Mr Hs email. And he said the 
rise in Mr Hs premium wasnt due to Autonet,  as it hadnt created a cancellation marker. 
Mr H said Autonet hadnt mentioned the 2016  part claim on his record until after the 
cancellation. He said it should pay more compensation for not replying to his email  or 
explaining the situation and for sending him details about another  consumers claim. Mr H 
said he was certain the cancellation had doubled  his premium. The investigator didnt 
change his view,  as he still thought Autonet had acted reasonably.
Mr H asked for a further review of his complaint, so it was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision upholding Mr Hs complaint as follows: 
The letter Autonet sent to Mr H on 13 October 2018 said previous claim(s) were not 
disclosed by him when he bought the policy. It said a further payment was required within 
seven days or it would collect payment from the card details it held for Mr H. He contacted 
Autonet to query the issue and told the advisor  he hadnt made any claims. The advisor said 
there was a record of one in 2016 and gave Mr H the date and the name of the insurer.  I 
think he must have known what she was talking about. Mr H repeated that he had proof of 
having made no claims. The rest of the call was about him sending  the proof  to Autonet.     
Mr H told us he had made  a part claim in 2016 when he reported  a non-fault vandalism 
incident to a previous insurer. He didnt pursue it as a claim, and in 2018 he could show  he 
had three  years NCD. So he thought the 2016  incident didnt count - which I think is 
understandable. Mr H wasnt aware  that a record of the vandalism claim had been added  to 
a central insurance  database (the Claims and Underwriting Exchange  - known as CUE) by 
his previous insurer. Brokers and insurers check CUE when arranging  policies, and I think it 
Ref: DRN21484432was reasonable  for Autonet to assume the CUE record  was correct. So it had to be referred  
to the new insurer,  which led to a higher premium being charged by that insurer. 
CUE shows the 2016 claim  as withdrawn and says nothing  was paid out by the insurer.  But 
some insurers take even non-fault incidents into account. So although  Mr H didnt think it 
was relevant, the vandalism incident  made a difference to the way his new insurer viewed 
him as a risk. The fact that Mr H could produce proof of NCD doesnt affect the CUE record. 
I think its clear  that Mr H didnt realise the effect  the 2016 incident  would  have - but 
Autonets advisor could easily have clarified the issue for him. I think she should have told 
him that providing  proof  of his NCD wouldnt make a difference,  as it was the CUE record of 
an incident / a withdrawn claim that led the insurer to raise the premium. I think  the advisor 
allowed Mr H to believe that if he gave  Autonet proof  of three  years  NCD in 2018, it would be 
clear he hadnt made a claim in 2016. So the extra premium wouldnt be required.  
Autonet had said in its first letter to Mr H that it would try to collect the extra  sum due from 
the credit  card details  it had for him. It sent Mr H a further two letters on 22 October 2018. 
One letter said it hadnt been  able to collect the sum due. It said if Mr H didnt pay within 
seven days, the policy  would be cancelled.  The other letter said that details Autonet  needed 
must be provided or cancellation would follow in seven  days.
Mr H says he didnt get the letters. But Autonet can show they were  sent, so normally  I think 
it would  have been fair for it to cancel  the policy in line with the deadline it had given. But it 
didnt cancel the policy at that point. Instead  on 30 October 2018 it sent Mr H a further letter  
saying the policy would  be cancelled in a week,  as information from him was still needed. 
Mr H got the letter and emailed Autonet the next day to say hed sent it proof of his NCD, 
which was the only information it had said was still required. Autonet  then asked him for the 
policy number, which Mr H gave it on 4 November  2018. Mr H queried the situation on 
5 November 2018  two days before the cancellation date  but Autonet  didnt respond.  
I think its likely that Mr H didnt get the letters Autonet issued on 22 October 2018. He 
replied straight away to the next letter it sent, giving the same seven day cancellation  period. 
He queried that Autonet still intended  to charge him extra, despite the fact that hed sent it 
proof of his NCD. I think that shows that Mr H still believed the two issues were linked. Had 
Autonet dealt with his query,  it seems  likely  it would have told him (assuming it could trace  
the NCD hed supplied) that the cancellation was still pending,  due to the sum he owed for 
the extra premium.  Mr H would then have had a chance to pay it and keep his policy.      
Mr H found the premium charged by his next insurer was much higher than the previous 
insurer had charged.  Autonet  says it didnt record the policys cancellation, nor did Mr Hs 
last insurer. Premiums are based  on numerous  factors. But Mr Hs endorsement (which 
wasnt set out properly when he applied for insurance through  Autonet) will probably have 
had an effect. The record of the non-fault  incident may have done so as well. And it seems 
that Mr H told the new insurer when asked that hed had a policy cancelled. That was the 
right thing to do, but it would also have affected  the premium he had to pay.
I think Autonets advisor missed the chance to clarify that Mr Hs proof of NCD didnt mean 
he wasnt still required to pay an extra premium for a non-fault incident.  Autonet didnt notify 
Mr H when it extended the cancellation period to 7 November  2018 that in order  to avoid it, 
hed have to provide proof of NCD and pay the extra premium. And when Mr H queried the 
cancellation after providing the proof of NCD, it didnt respond  to the query.  
Ref: DRN21484433I think it would be fair and reasonable for Autonet to refund Mr H for the extra  premium hes 
paid due to the cancellation,  subject to evidence. Mr H has a letter  from his new broker  that 
seems to show he paid £383.37  more for his policy by answering a question about having  
had a policy cancelled.  I think  Autonet should  pay the sum due to the cancellation, subject to 
clarifying it with the new broker. Autonet has told us there wasnt an enforced  cancellation, 
so it wasnt recorded  as such.  So I think it should  send Mr H a letter to that effect that he can 
show when seeking  future insurance  cover.   
I also think Autonet should  pay Mr H compensation for distress and inconvenience.  He was 
confused and upset that his policy was cancelled when he thought hed done all he could to 
avoid that. And Mr H was inconvenienced by having  to find other  insurance when that could 
have been avoided. I think £200  compensation would be reasonable. Mr H complained that 
Autonet sent him details  about another consumer in error, but I dont think  he faced any 
detriment as a result  of that. His data wasnt shared with anyone else. So I dont think theres  
a basis for Autonet to compensate him for its error.   
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Mr H accepted  them. Autonet 
agreed to pay the compensation and provided a draft letter  it intends  to send to Mr H about 
the cancellation that he can show to future  insurers. That should prevent the cancellation 
from having a future  impact. It pointed out that the rise in his premiums  could have been 
caused by factors  other than the cancellation.  It said it would need to be able to confirm with 
Mr Hs new insurer  what part of the increase was due to the cancellation.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im pleased that both Mr H and Autonet have  accepted my provisional findings,  so theres no 
reason to depart from them. I agree that the only part of the rise in Mr Hs premium that 
Autonet should  have to refund is that which was caused by the cancellation. I had hoped to 
make it clear  in my provisional decision that Autonet should  liaise  with Mr Hs broker  (and / 
or his new insurer) to determine what the correct  refund should be.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Atlanta 1 Insurance Services  
Limited (trading as Autonet) to do the following:
Subject to clarifying it with Mr Hs new broker / insurer,  refund the extra  sum he paid 
for his new policy as a result of the cancellation  of his previous policy
Add interest to the refund, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
Write  to Mr H, in line with the draft letter provided, explaining that the cancellation 
wasnt enforced and should have no future impact  on Mr Hs premiums 
Pay Mr H £200 compensation
If Atlanta  thinks its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken  off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN21484434Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2148443