K821x#15complaint
Miss E says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about seven payday  loans that Quick Quid provided to Miss E from 
October 2008 onwards. Miss Es last loan was provided in April 2010.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Es complaint  about  loans three to seven. So she thought that 
Miss E shouldnt have  been provided with these loans. Quick Quid didnt agree with our 
adjudicator in full. So the complaint  was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss E 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Es complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Miss E, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Miss E was unlikely to have been able to 
make her loan repayments in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan three.  I say 
this because:
Ref: DRN26719462by the time of loan three, Miss E had owed Quick Quid  money for a period of seven  
months. And it had taken Miss E four months  to eventually repay loan one. Loan 
three was for more  than what Miss Es actions appear to suggest  that she was 
finding difficult to repay. In my view, Miss E owing Quick Quid  money for this period  
of time, in these  circumstances,  was in itself a clear demonstration  of Miss Es 
inability to settle her loans over the life of the credit agreement.  
Miss E was given  loans for a period  that cannot reasonably  be described as short-
term. And, in my view,  Miss E paid large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service  an 
increasing debt to Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think that Miss E lost out because  Quick Quid provided these loans because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Es indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the extended period of time she owed Quick Quid  money was likely to have had 
negative implications on Miss Es ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her 
in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Miss Es complaint about  loans three to seven  and Quick  Quid  should  put 
things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss E paid on loans three to six;
Quick Quid sold on an outstanding balance on loan seven to a third party debt 
purchaser. I understand that Miss E has since settled the account with the third party. 
So Quick Quid needs to add up the payments  it received  from Miss E and the 
payments she made to the third party.  Any payments over and above the amount lent 
to Miss E should be treated  as an overpayment and be refunded  to Miss E;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest,  charges and 
overpayments from the date they were  paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Miss E a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Es complaint.  Casheuronet  UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Miss E compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2671946