K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains about the handling  of a claim made under a private medical insurance 
policy by Aviva Insurance Limited. 
background
Miss C needed a procedure, and this was authorised by Aviva. A few months later,  Miss C 
told Aviva  one of her surgeons  had cancelled the procedure. She understood this was 
because Aviva said it wouldnt  cover  the surgeons  fee. She made a complaint to Aviva.  
Aviva didnt uphold  Miss Cs complaint, so she brought the matter here. She said Aviva 
hadnt approved  her procedure in time and this meant it had to be delayed by about four 
weeks. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He didnt think it was Avivas 
fault the surgeon had cancelled the procedure.
Miss C didnt agree, so the matters been  passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive listened to the phone calls and looked  at all the claim notes. Having  done  so, I dont 
think Aviva  has done anything wrong.  Ill explain  why. 
In October  2017, Miss C called Aviva to make a claim as she needed a procedure.  Aviva 
authorised this. 
In December 2017, Miss C advised  Aviva that she would need two surgeons to operate  on 
her (Mr L and Mr E). Aviva confirmed that this was fine. 
Aviva later spoke with Mr Es secretary.  She advised  Aviva  that both surgeons  would be 
operating under the same procedure code but would  be charging separately. As it was 
unusual for two surgeons to bill for the same procedure, Aviva  wanted the two surgeons to 
provide a letter confirming their involvement  and justification for providing two invoices for 
the same  procedure. Aviva advised the secretary that this wouldnt have an impact on 
Miss C, it was just a fee issue. 
Aviva then spoke with Miss C. It explained it had asked the surgeons for more information,  
but confirmed  this had no bearing  on her and that her surgery  remained eligible. 
After having further  conversations with the surgeons secretaries, Aviva  advised which  two 
procedure codes the surgeons  should  bill under.  Aviva confirmed this in a letter to the 
surgeons, and advised that the fee for one of the procedure codes was £1,200  (which  Mr L 
would perform) and the fee for the other  was £360 (which Mr E would perform).
As I understand it, both surgeons intended to charge £1,200 for their respective parts  in 
performing the procedure.  Because of this, Mr Ls secretary advised Miss C that Aviva 
wouldnt cover  the full fee and that Miss C would be liable to pay the shortfall.  If she wasnt 
Ref: DRN24093882able to do so, the procedure  would  be cancelled. Miss C called Aviva as she was 
understandably confused  and anxious  about  this. Aviva advised  Miss C that she wouldnt 
need to pay any shortfall.
Aviva called Mr L to discuss the matter,  but he was away. Aviva  asked that he call to discuss 
the fees on his return. 
Mr L didnt call Aviva  and instead cancelled the procedure. This was on 5 March 2018. The 
procedure was due to take place  on 16 March 2018.
Aviva tried to call Mr L several times to discuss the matter, but wasnt able to reach  him. 
Miss C told Aviva she was considering changing to a different surgeon as she was very 
upset and angry about the whole situation.  She advised she was going  to have a 
consultation with Mr L, and would call Aviva back after this. 
It then transpired  that Mr L was happy  to go ahead with the procedure, and it was actually  
Mr E who was unhappy, because he wasnt going to be paid his full fee. 
Aviva then spoke with Mr L, who advised  that Mr E was the only surgeon  able to carry out 
the relevant part of the procedure. And that Mr E wanted Avivas  assurance that it was going 
to pay him. 
On 9 March 2018,  Aviva  spoke with Mr Es secretary. The secretary explained  that although 
Mr E wasnt  the lead surgeon, his surgical  input was expected  to be the more significant  
element, therefore  he wanted his full fee paid. Aviva confirmed at this point, that whilst it was 
unusual, it would pay the full fee. 
Aviva called Miss C to advise her of this. 
As the surgery had been cancelled by Mr L/Mr E, it couldnt be carried  out on 16 March  
2018. It therefore had to be rearranged  for 13 April 2018.
I do have a lot of sympathy for Miss C. She was caught up in an issue that should have only 
concerned Aviva and the surgeons. I can understand  why she was anxious about the matter, 
but Aviva  did advise her several times that she wouldnt need to pay a shortfall. 
When Aviva  found out that Mr Ls secretary had advised Miss C that the procedure may be 
cancelled, it did call Mr L to try and address the issue.  However, rather than call Aviva back, 
the surgeons instead cancelled the procedure. 
Aviva later sent Miss C a bouquet  of flowers and told her it thought  perhaps  the decision to 
pay both surgeons  fees in full could have been made sooner. However, once it reviewed  
what had happened, it didnt think that was the case. Im minded to agree. 
Ultimately, both the surgeons had an agreement with Aviva  to adhere to its fee guidelines. 
Despite this, they wanted to bill Aviva  twice for the same procedure code, when only one fee 
would normally be payable for this. I think Aviva  was therefore entitled  to query this with the 
surgeons, and its extremely unfortunate that rather than communicate with Aviva about the 
matter, they instead  decided  to cancel the procedure. I can understand how frustrating this 
must have  been  for Miss C, but Aviva wasnt responsible for this decision. Im satisfied it 
Ref: DRN24093883took the appropriate action as soon as it became aware that the procedure had been  
cancelled by the surgeons. 
I therefore dont  require Aviva to do anything further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2409388