K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc will not refund any commission it 
received from his credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) premiums for the policy he 
took out in 1999.  
background
Mr W contacted  RBS to complain about  the level of undisclosed commission (and profit 
share) received by the RBS on his PPI policy attached  to a credit  card.  
RBS explained  to Mr W that the sale of his PPI in 1999 had already been  looked into and the 
complaint had been upheld. 
RBS say that Mr W had a successful claim under the policy  totalling more  than he had paid 
for the PPI. So RBS considered that as Mr Ws claim amount was greater  than his PPI 
compensation he wasnt due anything under his PPI mis-sale complaint.
RBS explained  that as Mr Ws mis-sale complaint  had already been fully upheld  it didnt 
need to do anything further  in relation  to the amount of commission  and profit  share it 
received for the PPI policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ws commission complaint. Mr W disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) provided  guidance and rules on how businesses  
should approach compensation for PPI when a consumer  complains  about  the sale of PPI. It 
referred to a two-step  approach.  
The first was that a business should  look to see whether a policy was mis-sold and whether 
the consumer  would  not otherwise have bought  the policy they did. 
And if the policy wasnt mis-sold, the second  step was to look to see whether  the level of 
undisclosed commission (and profit share) received by the business  created an unfair 
relationship between the consumer and the business.
The rules  say that a business doesnt need to consider the commission  (and profit  share)  
charged if it upheld  the consumers  complaint that PPI had been  mis-sold (step  1). In other 
words, if a business finds a consumer  wouldnt  have  bought  the PPI they did and offers  to 
put things right on that basis,  it doesnt need to go on to look at any complaint about  
commission (step 2).
So here, Im satisfied Mr W made  a complaint about  a mis-sale of PPI, which  was 
investigated and upheld in 2015.  
Mr W has said that RBS hasnt  refunded the commission it charged because  he made a 
claim under the policy. But the reason RBS hasnt considered Mr Ws claim for high 
Ref: DRN29007742commission was because  his previous  mis-sale complaint was upheld  in full, not because  he 
made a claim.
As RBS accepted  the PPI policy was mis-sold,  it should have  tried to put Mr W in the 
financial position he would have been in if he hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible). 
Importantly here, if Mr W hadnt had PPI, he wouldnt have been able to make  his claim. 
So having  considered the FCA guidance explained above I think it was fair for RBS to 
deduct the amount Mr W received when he made his claim from any compensation. And 
because Mr Ws claims totalled more than his PPI compensation, RBS didnt need to pay 
him anything.
As the sale of the policy had been investigated and upheld in 2015 - albeit with no 
compensation due to Mr W, RBS didnt  have to go on and consider whether the relationship  
was unfair.   
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Ws particular complaint and 
circumstances that means RBS should do something different and I dont think there is. RBS 
has done what the rules  it must follow tell it to do. So I wont be telling RBS to do anything  
more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint and The Royal Bank  of 
Scotland Plc doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2900774