K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained about a loan he took out through a company called Valour Finance 
Limited trading  at the time as savvy.co.uk (Savvy).  Mr O says Savvy lent to him 
irresponsibly and contributed to his financial problems.
background
We now know that Mr O took out 1 loan from Savvy, in April 2018. Ive enclosed a summary 
of this borrowing, based on the information  it provided to us, which  can be found in an 
appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and told Mr O they didnt think  it should be 
upheld. Mr O didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr Os 
complaint.
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Mr O could 
repay the loan he was given, in a sustainable  manner.  These  checks  ought to have taken 
into account a range of different factors such as the amounts being lent, the total repayment  
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Savvy should have  fairly and reasonably done  more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully  considered all of these things 
and what they mean  for Mr Os complaint.
Ref: DRN29839052Savvy told us it carried out certain  checks before agreeing to lend to Mr O, including 
assessing his income  and expenditure.  It says that based on what  was said,  this information  
showed that Mr O would be able to make  the loan repayments  he was committing to. 
An important factor for me to consider  in this case is that Mr O only took out one loan with 
Savvy. And bearing in mind what Ive said above about the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I dont think the stage had been reached where I would have  expected Savvy to 
go into his financial affairs in a very detailed way, such as closely examining his bank 
statements, verifying his income / expenditure disclosers or doing detailed credit  checks.  I 
think the checks it would have carried out were  relatively moderate, but still commensurate 
with this being his first such  loan with the business.
I also note the £850  loan was an instalment  one and payable over 52 weeks.  In my view the 
repayments therefore appeared affordable when set against  both what  Mr O said he earned 
and his declared commitments. Mr O said his net income (after tax) was over £1,350 per 
month. So overall, I think the repayments  would most likely have appeared to have been 
affordable to Savvy when it carried out its checks.
I do understand that its possible Mr Os wider  financial situation  might have already been in 
a challenging  situation and that he may have been indebted to other lenders at the same 
time. And I accept that his actual  financial  position might well have  been  more apparent to 
Savvy if further information had been  obtained  by it. But Savvy made its decision based on 
the information it had available at the time and as it was still in the very early stages of a 
lending relationship Im afraid I dont think theres  enough evidence  to uphold  his complaint. 
In addition to all this I listened to a call Mr O had with the underwriters about  this loan. There  
was no indication he was in financial difficulties and I do think  it was made  clear  enough, 
several times, what he was being  asked to pay back. Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but theres 
not enough evidence for me to uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  Valour 
Finance Limited  to pay Mr O any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29839053Appendix
Loan  Date Amount Repaid Repayment Type
03/04/2018 £850 Part-outstanding 52 x £32 pw
Ref: DRN2983905