K821x#15Complaint
Mr Y, through his claims management  company (CMC), has complained about three savings 
policies he took out with Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited (Sanlam). The CMC has 
complained that Mr Y didnt understand the products  he was taking out and that the level of 
risk posed  by those  products were  not suitable for him given he was an inexperienced  
investor.
Background
Mr Y took out three policies with Sanlam  in 1988, 1989 and 1991. The polices were defined 
as a savings programme but were  whole of life investment plans designed to accumulate  
savings over the long term. Contributions could be made until the policy  holder turned  85 
and the policy provided an investment benefit for long term savings as well all life protection.
The paperwork from the time of the sale is very limited and what I have been provided with is 
quite difficult to read. But from what I have seen it would appear that at the first point of sale 
Mr Y was in his late thirties. He was married with one dependent child.  He was working and 
had an endowment mortgage.  He held some shares  through his employer but other than that 
he had no investment experience. He held a significant  amount  on deposit for use in 
emergencies. He also appears to have held two small life protection  policies.
In 1988 the policy he took out was invested  100% in a managed fund.
In 1989 his circumstances hadnt changed a great deal. The policy he took out at this point 
was invested in 50% in M.I International and 50% Framlington International Growth.  
In 1991 Mr Ys circumstances remained largely the same except for a small increase in his 
salary and he also had two dependent children at that point in time. This policy  was invested 
50% Henderson American and 50% Fidelity.
Mr Y surrendered all three policies  in 2010. The policy taken out in 1998 was surrendered  for 
just over £4,500  and Mr Y had paid in just under £4,000. The policy  taken in 1989 was 
surrendered for just over £7,000 and Mr Y had paid in just over £6,000.  And the policy  taken 
in 1991 was surrendered  for just over £10,500  and Mr Y had paid in just under  £9,000.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it should  be upheld  in part. 
She was of the view that Mr Y clearly  wanted  to save for his future and she felt the amounts 
he had invested  were affordable for him. However,  she didnt think  the levels of risk involved 
in the policies taken in 1989 and 1991  were suitable  for him given he was an inexperienced 
investor. So she felt the amount invested into those policies  should  have been invested in 
something more towards the lower end of the risk spectrum. She also acknowledged that as 
Mr Y appeared to have made some profit upon the surrender of all the policies while  two 
were unsuitable,  there could be no redress  coming back  to Mr Y.
Sanlam didnt agree  with the assessment. It explained it hadnt retained copies of fund
related literature but it would have provided  Mr Y with literature that would  have explained 
what funds were available and it would have showed what  risk each of those funds  posed.  It 
also stated its advisors  were not permitted to select the fund choice,  and it was down to the 
client as what fund they required and therefore the amount of risk that they wanted to take 
on. 
Ref: DRN22914462The CMC also didnt  agree with the assessment. It felt the policy taken in 1988 was also 
unsuitable because  Mr Y was not a balanced investor despite his holdings  of shares and it 
felt the risk represented  by the first policy was at a balanced  level.
The investigator considered the comments raised  by both parties  but wasnt  persuaded to 
change her initial outcome. So as no agreement  could be reached,  the complaint has been  
passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the complaint 
should be upheld  in part.
In my view I think the policies sold in 1989  and 1991 presented  Mr Y with higher levels  of 
risk than were suitable for him given his circumstances and objectives at the time.
In 1989 Mr Y had investment experience of one year, having taken out the same  type of 
policy just the year before. I know Sanlam seems to think the shares Mr Y held meant  he 
had more investment  experience than this, but those shares were from his employer and 
were part of an employment package. So, whilst  he held shares  Mr Y didnt go looking for 
them nor did he make an active  decision to start investing in equities.  In light of this therefore  
I am satisfied that Mr Ys investment experience  in 1989, despite the shares he held and the 
policy he had taken  a year before, was minimal.
As already stated,  the policy taken in 1989 was invested in the International Fund  and the 
Framlington Fund. During the course of the investigation of this complaint we asked Sanlam 
for details  of these funds  to ascertain what the asset  mix was however, Sanlam has been  
unable to provide  any accurate information.  It did however provide example product  
particulars which it says would have been provided to Mr Y at the time of the sale.  This 
states that the International Fund  would either have been made  up of UK and overseas 
markets equities,  property and currency or would have been made up wholly of overseas 
equities, unit trusts or other investment trusts. This documents also states there were eight 
Framlington Funds that could have been  invested in but it cant tell me which exact  one was 
involved in this policy. However, looking at the assets for each Framlington Fund they 
appear to have involved equities in the UK, and worldwide, including  the US and Japan. 
So, while I accept the funds involved in this policy may have been in line with Mr Ys most 
suitable risk level I cant be sure of this because I dont know  which exact funds were 
involved. And given  some  of the funds  included overseas investment in my mind these 
would have been more towards the higher end of the risk spectrum. Therefore,  if this is the 
case I dont think this would have been  suitable  for Mr Y given  he was looking for a savings 
policy over the long term and he was an inexperienced investor.
This line of thinking  also applies to the policy sold to Mr Y in 1991. As mentioned above, his 
circumstances werent  very different from 1989. This policy involved the Henderson  
American Fund and the Fidelity Fund. Again, Sanlam hasnt been able to provide  any 
accurate information  about these funds so all I have is the example  product particulars 
mentioned above.  Again,  there are a number  of Henderson Funds and Fidelity Funds and 
I cant be sure into which  ones exactly Mr Ys policies  were  invested in. However, the assets 
across both these funds include UK overseas  and US equities,  residential property, far east 
equities, unit trusts and gilts. Again,  I am of the view that the majority of these assets  would 
Ref: DRN22914463have presented Mr Y with higher levels  of risk than were suitable for him given his lack of 
experience and his investment objective of savings.
I know Sanlam has said that for these  types of policies at that point in time the managed 
fund was the default option and the underlying  funds  would only differ from this if the 
policyholder requested it. So as far as Sanlam is concerned Mr Y chose the funds  for his 
1989 and 1991 policies  himself and therefore Sanlam had no responsibility for this selection. 
I fully appreciate this however while I dont doubt what Sanlam  has said I havent been 
presented with any paperwork which confirms this. Also,  while this may be the case,  there is 
nothing noted  in the point  of sale documentation that assures  me that discussions around  
the changes in the funds  took place between  the adviser and Mr Y and that Mr Y fully 
understood the choices he was making and what the potential  consequences couldve been. 
I therefore cant be satisfied that the adviser  advised  Mr Y about  these policies  and the fund 
involved in the most  suitable way.
With regards to the policy Mr Y first took in 1988,  I know the CMC feels this was also mis-
sold but I dont  agree. This policy was invested  in the managed  fund which would have  
included a spread of investment based  in the UK and which  I know would have been more 
towards the lower  end of the risk spectrum rather than balanced as the CMC thinks. And this 
I think was suitable  for Mr Y given he wanted to invest  for savings he obviously wanted  to 
make some money  for his future and therefore would  have had to take a small amount of 
risk with his money  to achieve this objective.  
Overall, therefore I think the policy Mr Y took out in 1988 was suitable for him from a risk 
perspective. Contrary to what the CMC has said, I am satisfied  the managed fund where  the 
first policy was invested was more  towards  the lower end of the risk spectrum and so was in 
line with Mr Ys needs and objectives. However, the ones he took out in 1989 and 1991 were  
not suitable because I think they presented him with higher levels  of risk than were  suitable. 
And while I appreciate  what  Sanlam  has said about  Mr Y choosing  the funds himself,  but 
even if this was the case  I cant be sure that Mr Y was made aware by the adviser  of the 
risks of each  fund he was choosing  from and what that could have meant to him and his 
investments.
What Sanlam  Life & Pensions UK Limited must do to put things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr Y 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Mr Y would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr Ys circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Sanlam do?
To compensate Mr Y fairly,  Sanlam  must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ys investments with that of the benchmark  shown  
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
Ref: DRN22914464investments. If the actual  value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
A separate  calculation should  be carried out for each investment.
Sanlam should also pay interest  as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
1989  policy 
surrenderedBank of 
England plus 
1%date of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
1991  policy 
surrenderedBank of 
England plus 
1%date of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
For each investment:
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Our usual  benchmarks  didnt apply until February  1996 which  is why Ive recommended  the
above for the calculation.
Mr Y wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
Bank of England  plus 1% would be a fair measure for someone who wanted  to 
achieve a reasonable  return without risk to his capital. 
I consider that Mr Y was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment 
objectives. So, the Bank of England plus 1% would reasonably put Mr Y into that 
position. It does  not mean that Mr Y would have invested Bank of England plus 1%. 
Rather, I consider  this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Mr Y could  have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk 
attitude.
Ref: DRN22914465The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
It may well be that Mr Y hasnt  lost out financially once the calculations have been
completed but if he has I would recommend that Sanlam  pay the difference  plus interest  at 
8% simple  per annum.
My final decision  
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  
Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited  should pay the amount calculated  as set out above.
Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited  should provide details of its calculation  to Mr Y in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr Y either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 December  2019.
..
Ayshea Kan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2291446