K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr T took out two secured  personal  loans with Halifax in 1999 and 2001. He bought  a PPI 
policy with both loans  and paid a monthly  amount for each of them.
Mr T says he got very good sick pay and so didnt  need the PPI. He also says if Halifax had 
made the cost and benefits clear, and if hed known it was optional,  he wouldve declined  it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ts complaint  didnt uphold it. Mr T disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
I think its likely Halifax made Mr T aware the PPI with both loans was optional and he 
agreed to it in each  case. I understand Halifax sold the PPI at meetings, so I dont know  how 
it was presented to him. But Ive got copies of the loan agreements Mr T signed 
subsequently. These  have Yes and No options next to the question: Do you want  
Personal Loan Repayments Insurance ?. The Yes  option is marked with a cross on both 
loan agreements. If Mr T hadnt wanted  PPI following his discussions with the adviser, I think  
the No options on each loan agreement  wouldve  been marked  with a cross and PPI 
wouldnt have been added to Mr Ts accounts.  So I think, at the time, Mr T agreed to taking 
out PPI alongside the loans, knowing he had a choice about it.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr T so it had to make sure it was right for him. 
From what  Mr T says of his circumstances when he bought both policies and the policy 
details Halifax has given  us, I think it was. I say this because:
Mr T was eligible  for both PPI policies.  I dont think he wouldve been affected  by any 
of the main things  the policies didnt cover, for example unusual employment terms 
or known  medical conditions. So there was nothing to stop him claiming  on the PPI if 
hed needed  to.
Mr T says he got 12 months full pay if he was off work sick. But the PPI wouldve 
covered Mr Ts loan repayments  for up to 60 months if he had an accident or became 
too ill to work and for up to 12 months  if he lost his job. And this wouldve been  in 
addition to his sick pay. So, despite  Mr Ts sick pay, I think  the PPI gave him useful  
protection, especially  since his loans were  secured on his home  which was at risk if 
he fell behind on his loan repayments.
The cost of each  policy  was shown on each loan agreement. So I think  Mr T wouldve 
understood how much hed need to pay for it. I havent seen anything  to make me 
Ref: DRN24652722think the cover was unaffordable for him. And he couldve cancelled the policies 
without any kind of penalty if hed decided he didnt want them  any more.
As well as making sure the policies were  right for Mr T, Halifax  also had to give him enough  
clear information about them so he could  decide  if he wanted to buy them. Its possible some 
of the information Halifax  gave Mr T wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But for the reasons 
Ive given above about why I think the policies were  right for him, I dont think  clearer  
information (if it had been needed) wouldve stopped Mr T buying them. 
I dont think Mr T has lost out because of anything Halifax may have done wrong, so theres  
nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2465272