K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about Zenith Insurance plc and how it dealt with a mobile phone repair 
under a gadget insurance policy.
References to Zenith include  its agents  that handled the claim.
background
Mr W made a claim after damaging his phone  screen.
He spoke with Zeniths claims team around two weeks later and paid the policy  
excess.
Mr W eventually  sent the phone to Zenith where  it was repaired and returned around 
mid-May.
Mr W raised a discrepancy with his address which was amended but there  was a 
slight delay in returning the phone.
Mr W collected it and shortly  after contacted Zenith to say there was a fault.
He followed this with an email saying speaker covers were  missing and the device 
was no longer water resistant.
He later returned the phone for a second repair and Zenith said the screen issue was 
water damage and unrelated to the previous repair.  It was a second  claim and 
another excess payment required.
Mr W complains as he feels Zenith didnt complete the first repair  properly.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld;
oThe policy allowed  Zenith to use non-branded parts.
oOriginal speaker  covers have now been fitted.
oHe was satisfied  Zenith had replaced  the phone screen and LCD adhesive  
and a live test was done suggesting it was sent back in working order.
oTherefore, a second claim  was reasonable as this was new damage.
oHe noted the initial  excess had been  returned as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr W disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman  to decide the matter. Hed also told us that 
hed received funds  from Zenith to purchase a new phone as a gesture of goodwill.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint concerns whether its fair that a second claim be required 
and with it a second  excess payment payable.
The evidence from Zenith shows that the first repair was carried  out (screen  
replacement) and the phone  returned  in working  order.
The policy says;
owhere possible original parts will be used but unbranded ones may be used in 
some cases.
oIf the gadget  was water resistant when new, the repaired gadget will also be 
water resistant but cannot be guaranteed to be water proof
The repairer noted water damage but that doesnt mean the first repair compromised  
the water  resistance.  Theres  insufficient evidence  of this and by its nature water  
resistance doesnt mean water proof.
Ref: DRN21688322And branded  speaker covers  were later inserted and so I dont think thats unfair.
The damage raised by Mr W when he received the phone  back was inspected by the 
repairer and found to be water  damage.
This was a different form of damage  from the first claim (impact) and so a new claim 
would need to be set-up.
Im satisfied  its fair to require a new claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2021.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2168832