K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs E have  complained about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds  handling of their car 
insurance policies.
Reference to Tesco  includes their agents.
Mr E is the policy holder  and Mrs E is a named  driver. Almost all the correspondence with 
Tesco and our service has been with Mr E. So, for ease, I will only refer to Mr E throughout 
this decision.
background
Mr Es car was involved  in a minor  accident  with another  car in October 2015. Both drivers 
said the other was at fault. The claim was eventually  settled in November 2018 as being the 
other drivers  fault. The accident was therefore recorded as a non-fault claim against  Mr Es 
policy.
Between the accident and its settlement, Mr Es policy renewed three times during which  his 
premium increased. His premium for the policy year before the accident  was £425.75. The 
three renewal dates and the premiums were as follows:  1 November 2015 (renewal 1) 
£577.33; 1 November 2016  (renewal  2) £696.72; and 1 November 2017  (renewal 3) 
£878.04.
Mr E said he was concerned about the premium  increases and he raised  that with Tesco a 
number of times. He said he was told by Tesco that the increase at each  renewal was 
because the 2015 claim remained open.  He said they told him that if the claim settled in his 
favour as non-fault, then Tesco would go back and recalculate his past premiums and give 
him a backdated refund. 
When the claim settled as non-fault, Mr E asked Tesco to recalculate his past premiums and 
give him a refund. Tesco said only renewal 1s premium had taken into consideration the 
open claim when  it was calculated. After recalculating the premium on the basis that the 
claim was non-fault,  Tesco gave  Mr E a refund of £81.39.  But Tesco said the premiums for 
renewals 2 and 3 had been  calculated without taking into consideration the open claim.  In 
other words, the open claim had no impact  on the premiums and even if the accident hadnt 
happened the premiums would still have  increased.  So, Tesco said Mr E wasnt entitled  to a 
refund.
Mr E complained. But Tesco didnt uphold it. Mr E didn't think that was fair and brought  his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  looked into the complaint. He felt that Tesco  hadnt  
done anything  wrong. As Mr E didnt agree,  the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 15 January 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
Its clear that Mr E has been concerned about  his premium increasing at each 
renewal. And he has said that he spoke with Tesco and raised the issue  a number of 
times. He has been consistent in saying Tesco have always  told him that in the event 
Ref: DRN26483042the open claim closed  as non-fault,  they would retrospectively recalculate his past 
premiums and give him a refund. Our service asked for all the call recordings of the 
conversations between Mr E and Tesco. While  Tesco gave us a number  of those 
calls, I understand  that there  are some more that havent been provided. In total we 
have been given five call recordings and Ive listened to all of them.
The earliest call provided to us is from 24 October  2017. That call was just before 
renewal 3. During that call Mr E told Tesco about the open claim not yet being 
resolved and that he had, during previous  calls,  been told by Tesco  that if the open 
claim was settled as non-fault, they would  backdate  his premiums. Tescos call 
handler told Mr E that he (the call handler) would discuss the open claim with their 
claims department to see what was going  on. The call handler acknowledged  that Mr 
E had two policy renewals  since the accident  and that it (the open claim) had 
impacted his premium.  The call handler  said, no matter how long its gone  on for 
well look to backdate  it for as long as its [the open  claim] been on the policy.  The 
call handler also said Tesco would assess  every policy year the claim was open 
and that while he couldnt say how much  any refund would  be, having  a fault claim 
was likely to cost Mr E more in premiums  than a non-fault claim. Tesco didnt  say the 
premiums for renewal 2 or the impending  renewal  3 hadnt taken into consideration 
the open claim. On the contrary, I think Tesco gave Mr E the impression that the 
increases were impacted by the open claim.
During a call on 14 June  2018, Mr E raised the open claim and premium increases 
again. Tescos call handler told Mr E that because the open claim was being treated 
as a fault claim, it contributed to the premium  year on year. The call handler told Mr 
E: if it [the claim] did get overturned as a non-fault  for whatever reason, we would 
then obviously look to recalculate your premium  based on a non-fault  rather than a 
fault claim. Again, I think that Tesco gave Mr E the impression that the increases 
were impacted by the open claim and that he would get a refund in the event the 
claim was settled as non-fault. 
It might help if I explain that its usual insurance industry practice  for insurers  to treat 
open claims as fault claims  for the purposes  of premium calculations.  And our 
expectation is that in the event the claim is closed as non-fault,  the insurer will 
retrospectively recalculate past premiums to see if a refund is due. That is what  
Tesco did in relation to renewal 1. The premium, having taken into consideration the 
open claim, was £577.33. But once it settled as non-fault, Tesco  recalculated the 
premium and refunded  Mr E £81.39.  That means  renewal 1 cost £495.94.
Tesco said Mr E wasnt  entitled  to a refund for renewals  2 and 3, because  those  
premiums werent impacted by the open  claim. That means those premiums would 
have increased  to the levels they did even if the 2015 accident didnt happen and 
there was no open claim. But Tesco didnt tell Mr E that was the case. I think that if 
they had told him the premiums for renewals 2 and 3 had increased for reasons 
totally unconnected to the open  claim; and that he wouldnt get a refund even if the 
open claim settled as non-fault, Mr E wouldnt  have  renewed his policy with Tesco in 
2016 and 2017. Mr E said that he had, during the renewals, got online  quotes from 
other insurers which were much lower than Tescos premiums. But because he was 
told he would get a refund if the claim settled  as non-fault, and because  he was a 
very long standing and loyal customer,  he remained with Tesco. I understand that, 
given the passage of time, those other quotes  arent available so I dont know  how 
much of a saving Mr E would have made  if he had gone elsewhere. But I accept what 
Ref: DRN26483043Mr E has said that he could have got cheaper insurance elsewhere, so I think  that Mr 
E was financially worse off by renewing his policy with Tesco in 2016 and 2017.  I 
therefore intend to uphold  this complaint.
There is no evidence to show  exactly how much  Mr E would have saved if he had 
taken out insurance  for policy years 2016 and 2017  with another insurer  for like for 
like cover. So, I think the fairest way to deal with the matter is to ask Tesco  to refund 
Mr E the difference between the premiums for renewal  1 and renewal 2; and the 
difference between  the premiums for renewal 1 and renewal 3. 
The premium for renewal 1 (after  the recalculation once the claim settled  as non-
fault) was £495.94.  The premium for renewal  2 was £696.72. The difference  is 
£119.39. Tesco should also pay Mr E simple interest  at 8% a year from the date he 
paid renewal 2 until the date he is refunded.
The premium for renewal 1 (after  the recalculation once the claim settled  as non-
fault) was £495.94.  The premium for renewal  3 was £878.04. The difference  is 
£382.10. Tesco should also pay Mr E simple interest  at 8% a year from the date he 
paid renewal 3 until the date he is refunded.
Given the length of time this matter has been  ongoing and the fact that Mr E had to 
complain to Tesco and bring his complaint to our service, I think  he has experienced 
distress and inconvenience. I therefore intend to require Tesco to pay Mr E £200 
compensation to reflect  that.
The parties were invited to comment on my provisional findings. Tesco accepted  my 
provisional findings but Mr E didnt comment.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Tesco  Underwriting 
Limited to:
Refund Mr and Mrs E £119.39,  together with simple  interest  at 8% a year from the
date they paid the premium for renewal  2 until the date the refund is made.1
Refund Mr and Mrs E £382.10,  together with simple  interest  at 8% a year from the
date they paid the premium for renewal  3 until the date the refund is made.
Pay Mr and Mrs E £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  they 
experienced. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr and Mrs E 
have accepted my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on that amount from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a 
rate of 8% a year simple.
1 If Tesco consider that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr and Mrs E how much they have taken  off. They  should  also give them  a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN26483044Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2020.   
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2648304