K820x#14complaint
Mr B feels  that Virgin Money  Plc (Virgin for short) has treated him unfairly in regard to his 
financial difficulty and his debt.
background
Mr B says that Virgin has treated him unfairly because it didnt do enough to consider his 
financial situation, vulnerability and medical conditions  when  he called them  in February 
2019 to discuss  his outstanding debt.
Virgin said that it should have dealt with his call better and offered him £200 to reflect this. It 
does say that Mr B does  still owe it a significant debt but notes that in April 2019 he wasnt in 
arrears on his account. It feels that having made the offer to reflect the weaknesses of the 
call it has put things  right and doesnt have  to do any more.
Mr B complained here and the investigator said that she thought  Virgins  position was fair so 
she wouldnt  ask it to do anymore. As Mr B remains unhappy this complaint has been 
passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin must treat customers in certain circumstances  positively  and sympathetically . But 
there is no binding  obligation to freeze interest or to reduce charges or fees. Also there is no 
requirement to provide  services or indeed provide credit for free. I think,  on balance, that 
Virgin has treated Mr B positively and sympathetically. I say this because Virgin,  once  on 
notice that Mr B was struggling, has taken action with regard to fees and interest  as was 
explained in the call with him in February  2019.
Having listened  to the calls between Mr B and Virgin I appreciate that Mr B has some very 
serious conditions  and has had these for some time. I am very sorry to hear this. I can see 
Virgin has marked his account appropriately in this regard.
Mr B offered  during his call with Virgin to pay 60% of the required minimum payment. The 
Virgin representative explained that it was better  that Mr B paid something  but Virgin 
required Mr B to pay the minimum payment each month to avoid going  into arrears with his 
account. I do not consider this unfair, after all Mr B does owe Virgin  and the terms and 
conditions Mr B agreed to explain the requirement to make  the minimum repayment each 
month. And as Ive noted  Im glad to see Mr B wasnt  in arrears in April this year.
During the call with Mr B the Virgin representative explained that were  Mr B to be in arrears 
for an extended time that his account could be sold on to a third party.  Mr B doesnt want this 
to happen. But it is in the agreement between Mr B and Virgin that Virgin  can do this if 
choses to. And that would  be its commercial decision to do so and this service doesnt  have  
power to decide  on commercial decisions  of businesses.
I should add that were  Virgin  to sell on Mr Bs debt it wouldnt be responsible for that third 
partys actions and if Mr B was unhappy about  that partys actions hed have to complain to 
Ref: DRN23516902them. I appreciate  that this upsets Mr B. But I cant decide about things that might not 
necessarily happen.  And as Ive said that would  be Virgins commercial  decision.
And although I appreciate Mr B thinks it unfair, if he does fall into arrears  Virgin  has to record  
this on his credit file and that would then impact  on his credit rating.
Mr B said on the call that it was unfair that these would happen considering  his health issues 
and financial  difficulty. But Mr B has had the benefit  of this credit facility  and it would be 
unfair on Virgin for it to suffer the loss when it hasnt  done anything wrong.
During the call Mr B did pass comment on Virgins complaint handling processes. But how 
Virgin fulfils its regulatory obligations with regard  to complaint handling  is overseen  by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority and not this service.
Overall considering all that has happened  I dont think Mr Bs comments  are persuasive. I 
think on balance the evidence shows Virgin has treated him fairly  considering  the offer it has 
made and what it has said about  Mr Bs complaint.  So in short this complaint does not 
succeed. 
I should reiterate  that I hope Mr B gets the treatment and support he needs to do with his 
health.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against the Virgin  Money Plc. It 
has nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.  If Mr B wishes  to accept Mr Bs offer he 
should contact  it direct.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2351690