K822xcomplaint
Miss N complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op)  made several administrative 
errors and provided  poor service with regard to a loan she had with them. She also 
complains that theyve sold the debt to a third party but didnt tell her about that.
background 
The complaint relates  to a Professional Career Development Loan (PCDL) Miss N took out 
with Co-op in September 2014. The first payment was due in November of the following 
year.
Our adjudicator set out the background to this case in detail in the written  opinion he 
provided in April 2019. To summarise, he said:
Co-op rescheduled the payment date of the loan in 2016 when Miss N asked if they 
could
but they now realise they werent allowed to reschedule a payment date as the rules 
that govern these  loans, provided by the Education  and Skills Funding  Association 
(ESFA) prohibit any rescheduling of the loan
so this meant two payments were  required  the next month  instead  of the one Miss N 
expected (one on the original date and one on the revised  date) and as Co-op didnt 
tell Miss N this was the case  she was regularly one month in arrears on the account
in March 2018 a default  notice was issued by Co-op as the account was still regularly 
in arrears because  of this issue
when Miss N called  them to query this they failed to advise  her why and so Miss N 
paid as usual  and the account was therefore  sold to a debt collection company
Miss N was surprised to hear from the debt collection company and thought  Co-op 
were wrong to sell her loan without  informing her
she was also surprised to find the debt collectors  were asking for a much  higher 
monthly payment  than Co-op  had been
Co-op have explained  this was because they made a mistake  and gave  the debt 
collectors the wrong closing balance
Co-op offered  Miss N £100 to compensate  her for the inconvenience their actions 
had caused but Miss N wasnt  happy  with their response and she referred it to this 
service
Our adjudicator didnt  think Co-op had provided sufficient compensation in the 
circumstances. He noted that Co-op hadnt told Miss N in a clear  way what  had happened  or 
made any attempt  to change the date back.  He didnt  think  it was likely  Miss N would have 
been aware of the issue and when he reviewed her account performance  he noted that she 
usually kept up to date and he thought this suggested, if she were told about the problem, 
she wouldve been likely to have  fixed  it. He thought that as a result  of Co-ops failures  here 
this had resulted  in debt collectors  being  appointed and that this would have been 
distressing for Miss N  especially as they were asking her for far too much.
So overall, he didnt  think Co-op had provided reasonable recompense for the problems 
Miss N had experienced. He suggested a further £150 would be reasonable in the 
circumstances and Co-op accepted his suggestion.
Ref: DRN28542692But Miss N didnt. She said shed had to spend considerable time and effort  resolving this 
issue and she thought the compensation should  be much greater. So she asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Its clear Co-op have made mistakes here. For instance they shouldnt have rescheduled the 
loan and this caused the ensuing issues. They shouldve explained to Miss N more clearly  
what had caused  the problem and if they had I think its likely Miss N wouldve attended to 
matters and put things right. And they shouldve communicated the correct  closing balance 
to the debt collectors. I can understand Miss N would have been upset to receive claims for 
higher payments.
But they didnt  have to tell Miss N that her debt had been passed to a third party debt 
collector as they were  entitled to do this in the terms and conditions of the loan agreement. 
Section 12.6 said: We may transfer our rights and/or responsibilities under this agreement 
to any person 
I dont think Miss N has been financially disadvantaged by Co-ops actions although  I do 
understand that theyve made  mistakes  that would have been distressing for her and that 
shes also been inconvenienced when having to pursue them  to provide adequate 
compensation earlier. But having  reviewed  all of the information I am persuaded that further  
compensation of £150, making  a total of £250, is reasonable in the circumstances and I 
wont be asking Co-op to pay any more than that.
Ref: DRN28542693my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell The Co-operative Bank Plc 
to pay Miss N £250 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience their actions have  
caused her. They may deduct anything  theyve already paid in relation  to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2854269