K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly held him responsible  for another  
drivers claim  on his motor policy following an accident. 
background
On 5 December  2018, another driver told Allianz  that Mr Ps van had hit their car two days  
previously, whilst it was parked. Allianz  contacted Mr P about this. He said he knew  nothing  
about it and was away at the time the accident  happened. 
Allianz said it needed Mr Ps cooperation to deal with the other drivers claim, but it said Mr P 
wasnt willing to cooperate. Based on the evidence it received from the other  driver to 
include an independent witness statement, Allianz  said in the absence  of any further 
information from Mr P, it had no option  but to pay the other drivers claim on a without 
prejudice basis. 
Mr P complained but Allianz didnt uphold  his complaint, so he brought  it to us. The 
investigator didnt  think  Allianz had done  anything wrong. Mr P didnt agree so his complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
My role and that of this service is to assess whether  Allianz did anything wrong. In Mr Ps 
policy it says the following:
We shall be entitled in Your  name  to take over, and during such  period as We think  
proper have absolute  conduct and control of, all negotiations and proceedings which  
may arise in respect of any accident  or claim, and You shall give Us all necessary 
information and assistance. We shall be entitled  at our own expense to take such  
proceedings as We may think fit in Your name to recover compensation or secure an 
indemnity from any third party in respect  of any loss or damage covered by this 
policy.
This term confers a duty on Mr P to cooperate with Allianz in the handling of any claim 
against his insurance policy.  Its not an unusual term as almost  every insurer  says something 
similar in their policies. Unfortunately Mr P didnt  want to deal with Allianz or explain why this 
accident couldnt have been  caused by him if he had been away.  He didnt give it any 
information about that. That means  Allianz had no information to persuade the other  driver 
they were mistaken  that it was Mr Ps van, which caused damage to their car.
So in the absence of any information at all from Mr P, Allianz  were  left in the situation that 
they had to deal with the other drivers  claim on the best possible terms. I consider thats 
reasonable. If Allianz hadnt done that it wouldnt have protected Mr Ps interests, which  
might have caused the other driver to sue Mr P direct for the damage caused to their car.
Ref: DRN29345272Allianz also went to the trouble of ensuring  it settled the other drivers claim on a without 
prejudice basis. This means  it didnt formally admit liability in Mr Ps name.  I also consider 
that reasonable. 
Therefore in conclusion,  on the basis Mr P didnt provide  any information to show  he was 
involved in this accident which the other driver claimed he was, I consider Allianz did nothing 
wrong in settling the claim on the best terms available to it.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 September  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2934527