K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  about the way Places for People  Financial Services  Limited  has dealt with 
her loan account when she experienced financial difficulties. 
background
Miss B took a loan out with Places for People in January 2018. But her circumstances 
changed and in April 2018 Miss B wasnt able to make  the monthly payment. She contacted  
Places for People to say the payment would be made shortly. 
Miss Bs didnt make May or June 2018s payments either because of financial difficulties. 
Places for People emailed Miss B about her account. At this point, the loan balance was 
£816. Miss B emailed Places for People to explain she was experiencing serious  financial 
difficulties. 
On 1 August  2018 Places for People emailed Miss B and asked her to get in touch.  After  
Miss B responded, Places for People agreed  to put collections  activity  on hold for 30 days. It 
also said Miss B could set up a payment plan. 
On 31 August 2018 Miss B emailed and asked what the minimum payment she could make 
was. During September 2018 Miss B sent over information about her income  and financial 
circumstances. There were  some issues opening  the emails Miss B sent but 
Places for People agreed a payment  for £4.78 every two weeks  on 2 October 2018. 
Miss B emailed  Places for People back and asked about  the outstanding balance  which  had 
gone up since it contacted her in June 2018. On 4 October 2018 Places for People  said 
payments could only be made by direct debit and that interest and charges  had been  frozen  
as shed agreed a payment plan. It didnt  explain why the balance of the loan had increased. 
Due to issues with her bank Miss Bs first payment in the plan wasnt made. On 
10 October 2018 Places for People  emailed Miss B to say her account  had been passed to a 
third party debt collection business to manage  on its behalf. It said Miss B could arrange a 
new payment plan with the third party. 
On 16 October 2018 Miss B emailed  to explain why the first payment hadnt been  made  and 
asked to make it up. Places for People  responded but said the third party  was now handling 
the account. 
Miss B complained and Places for People  responded on 23 October  2018  but didnt agree it 
had made  a mistake. It said that by the time Miss B got in touch on 16 October 2018 the 
account had already been passed to the third party. It also confirmed that failed payment 
notification emails would continue as there was no agreed payment plan in place.  
Miss B complained again  and Places  for People responded on 7 November 2018 asking her 
to reach  an arrangement with the third party. Places for People said there  other payment 
methods available, not just direct debits. Places  for People says Miss Bs bank notified it that 
her direct debit instruction  was cancelled on 20 November 2018.  
Ref: DRN28703722Miss B referred her complaint to our service  and it was passed  to an investigator. She didnt 
uphold the complaint and noted that the account hadnt been  defaulted.  The investigator 
thought the decision to pass  the account  to a third party to manage was reasonable and 
didnt ask Places for People to take any further  action.  
In response, Miss B said she still wasnt clear  how the loan balance had increased and 
thought the service provided by Places for People  had been  poor.  Miss B didnt agree with 
the investigator and asked for her case  to be appealed so its been passed  to me to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss Bs been through a very difficult time and I understand her circumstances 
have impacted her ability to make payments to the loan.  Ive looked at everything both she 
and Places for People have provided to decide whether its treated Miss B fairly while 
experiencing financial difficulties. 
Miss B first missed  a payment in April 2018  and quickly  got in touch to explain why and that 
she hoped  to make it up. But no further payments were  received and Places  for People  
contacted her again in June 2018 by email. It said the outstanding balance was £816 and 
Miss B again explained that her circumstances had changed and she wasnt in a position  to 
pay. 
From that point Places for People  contacted Miss B again on 1 August 2018.  Further emails  
were exchanged and on 30 August 2018  collections  activity was paused for 30 days.  I 
havent found anything to show Places  for People treated Miss B unfairly or acted too swiftly. 
There were some issues reading Miss Bs emails, but Places for People agreed a payment 
plan on 2 October 2018. At this point,  the loan was five payments in arrears. I dont doubt 
what Miss B says about  the problems she had with her bank when trying to make  the first 
payment. But once the payment plan failed because the first payment wasnt  received, I 
think it was reasonable  for the account to be passed to a third party debt specialist to 
manage. Places for People confirmed this wouldnt affect Miss Bs credit file as a result of 
that step. Miss B says the account was passed  to the third party  too quickly.  But I think the 
ongoing level of arrears along  with the failed payment  plan meant the decision was fair. 
Miss B asked about payment  methods  and Places for People said she needed to use a 
direct debit. I think it could have provided  a better  response to this point as the other  
correspondence it sent to Miss B confirms there were a range of payment options available 
to her. In addition,  Miss B asked why her balance  increased from June 2018 onwards but no 
response was given. 
The investigator sent Miss B details of how interest has been  applied to her account. In 
short, Places for People continued to apply  interest  to Miss Bs loan until a payment plan 
was agreed on 2 October 2018. As no payments had been made to the loan from April 2018 
and interest continued to be applied, the loan balance increased. I appreciate Miss B feels  
this is unfair  but without  an agreed  payment plan Places for People  was entitled to continue 
to charge interest. 
Ref: DRN28703723I agree  Places  for People could have explained that to Miss B after she emailed. And I also 
think it could have  given  a better answer concerning payment methods. But I dont think 
those are causes for me to uphold  this complaint or tell Places for People to pay 
compensation. From what Ive seen, the lender was willing to agree a payment plan with 
Miss B to repay the loan in an affordable way throughout  the period in question and the 
interest was correctly applied. 
Miss B says Places for People acted unfairly when it tried to collect the payment after the 
payment plan failed.  But, as the investigators  said, Places for People advised  Miss B that if 
the payment plan failed the usual  payment  would  be required until the loan is repaid. So I 
think it gave fair warning of the consequences of failing to make  the agreed payments. And 
Places for People has also explained that once a payment plan fails it will continue to 
contact borrowers about missed payments.  Im sorry to disappoint Miss B but I havent found 
that Places for People has treated her unfairly  here. 
Miss B says she feels  the customer service and support provided by Places  for People  has 
been poor. But I think its provided a good level of support and shown considerable 
forbearance. Places for People agreed to put collections activity  on hold after Miss B told it 
about her circumstances. It then agreed  a reduced payment plan and to suspend  interest.  
Once the payment plan failed it passed  the account  to a debt specialist to handle  and 
provide support. Places  for People  hasnt  applied a formal default  to the account and 
appears to remain willing  to reach a reasonable payment plan with Miss B to repay  the 
outstanding balance. When a borrower experiences  financial difficulties lenders should 
provide positive and sympathetic support. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied thats what  
Places for People has done in this case.  
Ive considered everything provided  by Miss B and Places for People in reaching my 
decision. Having  done so, Im satisfied Places for People has treated Miss B fairly. As a 
result, Im not telling it to take any further  action  to resolve this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2870372