K820x#14Complaint
Mrs S is unhappy Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) has declined her furniture 
protection insurance policy  claim.  
Any reference to Assurant includes the actions  of its agents.
Background
In 2013, Mrs S took out a five-year furniture  staining and accidental damage insurance  policy  
for her sofa.
In December 2018, Mrs S noticed  a stain and scratch on her sofa.  She told Assurant about it 
the following  day and it asked her to complete a claim form. In it, Mrs S said a small portion 
of leather was peeling  (or had been  scratched) on the headrest,  and there were small marks 
on the seat. She added  there  was discolouration or dye marks on the head and neck rests. 
Mrs S explained she didnt know how the scratch had appeared but assumed it was caused  
by a clothing zip or hooks, or that another item had accidentally scraped the leather off. She 
thought the stain might  be due to hair dye or hair wax.
Assurant arranged for an independent  technician to inspect the damage. The technician 
carried out leather  diagnostic  tests  to both the affected and unaffected areas. From this the 
technician concluded  the discolouration was due to an ingress  of head grease.
Assurant declined the claim on the grounds  the stain had occurred gradually, and this type of 
damage isnt covered  under the policy. It refused to cover the scratch because Mrs S 
couldnt identify  how itd happened. And so, it wasnt satisfied itd occurred suddenly  as 
required by the policy definition for accidental  damage.
Mrs S later asked for a refund of her premiums  but Assurant said it was unable  to do this as 
shed asked for a refund  a month after her policy had expired. 
Mrs S remained unhappy  and so brought her complaint to this service.  Our investigator was 
of the opinion that Assurant had acted fairly by decling  the claim. She thought the 
technicians expert  evidence was persuasive and so was satisfied the stain had occurred 
gradually. 
Because Mrs S couldnt identify the cause of the scratch, our investigator wasnt  satisfied it 
had occurred suddenly  as per the the policy definition for accidental  damage. And so she 
didnt think Assurant had acted unfairly by declining this aspect of the claim. 
She said Assurants decision not to refund  the premiums was fair because the terms and 
conditions set out that a refund wont be provided if a claim is made, or when an incident is 
likely to result in a claim. And as Mrs S had made a claim, she wasnt entitled to a refund. 
Mrs S disagreed. She initially said it was unreasonable for her to have to pinpoint  when  the 
damage occurred  because it was accidental. But she later remembered shed had friends  
visit the day before shed  noticed the damage. One friend had been wearing a tiara and 
earrings, and the other had recently had their hair dyed. And she belives this to be the likely 
cause of the damage. 
Ref: DRN27356572Our investigator considered Mrs S new evidence, but her view remained unchanged.  
Because Mrs S disagreed  with the investigators view,  the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.  
Mrs S policy  provides cover for stains and accidental damage.  The policy  defines  a stain  as 
any sudden and unforeseen spillage caused by substances listed  on the policy  certificate. 
Accidental damage is defined as any unexpected, sudden and unforeseen damage caused 
by external force being applied and results in a rip, tear, burn or scratch.
The policy also lists a number of exclusions  as to when cover will be provided. Assurant has 
said the stain isnt covered  because it occurred gradually, and this type of damage is 
excluded under the policy. So, Ive looked at the evidence to decide if Assurants reliance on 
this exclusion is fair.
Mrs S argument is that ingress  of head grease should be considered  human bodily fluids,  
or wax  and as these substances are listed on the policy certificate, the claim should be 
accepted. But the key issue here is whether the damage occurred  gradually . Ive carefully 
considered the technicians  evidence  which states  that having completed  diagnostic tests, 
the damage was caused by an ingress of head grease. As this is something  that happens 
gradually rather than suddenly, Im satisfied  Assurants  decision to reject this aspect of the 
claim is fair.
Mrs S has said her friend  visited  the day before she noticed the damage and had recently 
had their hair dyed - so she thinks this is likely cause of the stain. But Im not persuaded by 
this because I think its reasonable  to expect Mrs S to have realised  this was the cause given 
her friend had only visited the day before.  But theres no mention of this in her claim form 
which was made only a short time after she noticed  the damage. So on balance, Im not 
persuaded that hair dye caused the stain.
Scratch / peeling  leather
With regards to the scratch, Assurant has declined this aspect of the claim because Mrs S 
couldnt identify  when it occurred. And Ive seen in the claim form Mrs S said she didnt know  
how the scratch had happened. 
Ive noted that under  the section what is covered the policy states  We will cover your 
products if the cause  of the damage can be identified. Although Mrs S has since  said the 
damage was caused when  a friend  visited wearing  earrings and a tiara, for the same 
reasons Ive already explained  above,  I dont find this testimony persuasive, as Id have 
expected Mrs S to share this information with Assurant when she first contacted  it to register  
the claim or when completing the claim  form. 
So as Mrs S cant identify  the cause of the damage, I cant say Assurant has acted  unfairly 
be declining this aspect  of her claim.
Premiums
Ref: DRN27356573Mrs S has asked  for her premiums to be refunded. While the policy does allow  for a refund 
(or proportional refund)  in certain circumstances,  this is not applicable in Mrs S situation. As 
our investigator explained,  just because a claim has been declined,  it doesnt mean a policy 
isnt fit for purpose. Policies  arent  designed to cover every eventuality, and its normal for 
insurers to include exclusions. 
So while I can understand Mrs S frustration  at her claim having been declined,  it doesnt 
automatically follow that shes entitled  to have her premiums refunded. And in the 
circumstances of this case,  I dont  think  Assurant is required to do this for the reasons Ive 
already explained. It follows  I wont be asking Assurant to do anything further.
I know my decision is going to be disappointing for Mrs S but I hope she understands why 
Ive not been able to uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2735657