K822xcomplaint
Miss C is unhappy with how AA Underwriting Insurance  Company Limited handled her 
buildings and contents insurance claims.
An intermediary for AA handled the claims.  For ease,  all references to AA include the acts 
and omissions of agents acting on its behalf. Similarly, references to Miss C include the 
submissions and actions  (etc.)  of her representative on this complaint.
my provisional decision  
I issued a provisional decision on this case in January  2020:  
background 
In late February 2018, water came through Miss Cs ceiling. She says she notified  a 
claim on her home emergency policy but wasnt told to make  a buildings  or contents 
claim. AA says it doesnt provide her with home emergency cover and so wasnt  
involved at this point.  
Two months  later, part of Miss Cs kitchen ceiling fell down. She notified AAwhich  
provides her with buildings and contents  insurance that  her kitchen and the 
bedroom above had been damaged.  It seems  water had come through from the loft. 
AA appointed a surveyor, but it and Miss C had trouble getting hold of them. A new 
surveyor was instructed and attended  Miss Cs home in early May 2018. After  
receiving their report, AA told Miss C it would cover her claim. She asked to see the 
surveyors report. Instead, it sent her a claim valuation of £2,117.36 minus the £200 
excess. She decided to use its approved  contractor  for the repairs  rather  than take a 
cash settlement.
The contractor visited on 31 May 2018.  AA told Miss C it would need to review and 
authorise the schedule of works, then shed  need to pay her £200 excess. She asked 
if she could use the contractor for most  of the work but take a cash  settlement for her 
flooring. AA told her she had to use their contractor for everything or take a full cash  
settlement. She said shed speak to the contractor and decide what to do.
Miss C then added  a door to her claim. It had been damaged by the leak and shed 
already replaced  it. She also mentioned that she was planning on submitting a 
contents claim once the buildings  claim  was done, but AA told her (erroneously) that 
it didnt provide her with contents cover.
Miss C was kept waiting  a few weeks whilst AA got the schedule from the contractor 
and reviewed it. In the meantime, she reported  that parts of her ceiling were  
continuing to fall down. AA told her the contractor  thought the rooms needed to be 
dried out before the work could start. She asked why dehumidifiers hadnt been 
installed earlier, to save time and perhaps prevent  some of the damage. AA said the 
initial surveyor hadnt recommended this - which Miss C disputed. It said it would  
make her ceiling safe within the next few days and it offered to put her up in a hotel in 
the meantime.  Miss C has told us she didnt  pursue  this offer as she has an elderly 
dog who she didnt  think shed be able to take with her.
Ref: DRN20976972During a visit on 18 June 2018,  Miss C was told by the surveyor  that the kitchen 
didnt need to be dried out before the work could begin. The surveyor  found a 
separate leak coming from the chimney, allowing water  through  a wall in the 
bedroom. That was why some areas in the bedroom werent drying  out. But this 
wasnt related to the escape of water  from the loft, where water  had come through  
the bedroom floor and damaged the kitchen.
AA said it would cover the work needed due to the leak from the loft under the 
escape of water section  of Miss Cs policy. It told her shed need  to pay a £350 
excess. Miss C queried this as shed initially been told the excess  was £200.  AA said 
shed been told this as the claim had been  logged  and dealt  with as accidental  
damage, for which a lower excess applies.  It was now passing  her claim to the 
department which deals with escape  of water.
AA also said it wouldnt cover the damage  caused by the leak from the chimney, as it 
appeared water had gradually seeped in as there  was no cowl/cap on the chimney. It 
didnt think this was covered  by the policy. It suggested Miss C could get a report  
done to substantiate the cause of the damage  if she disagreed.  She opted to arrange 
the chimney repair herself.  AA pointed out that, until the chimney was fixed, there 
would be no point installing dehumidifiers as water would still be able to enter  the 
property.
Miss C procured dehumidifiers to dry out the bedroom. She then asked AA for a 
breakdown of the work it would be covering. This was sent in mid-July 2018 along  
with a request  for the excess. In August 2018, AA chased up Miss C as she hadnt 
paid her excess or signed off the works. She said she couldnt do so as not 
everything had been  included in the scope of works,  such  as some  repairs  needed in 
her hallway. Shed informed the contractor and was waiting on them  to add this to the 
scope of works.
Miss C raised again that shed like to cash-settle the flooring. AA said it required a 
new scope of works and some quotes  for the flooring,  but it could then give her a 
cash settlement for the flooring and get the contactor to do the rest of the work. 
Miss C said shed ask the contractor to update the scope and agreed to send in 
some quotes. Around that time,  AA paid her for the damage door shed replaced. It 
also set up a contents claim for her - as it now confirmed she did in fact have this 
level of cover.
In late August 2018, Miss C provided a flooring quote. A few days  later on 
3 September 2018, AA put forward a settlement offer. It said it would pay for 
£2,638.08 for her buildings claim - consisting of £2,988.08 for the works minus the 
£350 excess. It also said it would pay her a further £597.60 for VAT on receipt of a 
VAT invoice.  And it would pay her £449.05  for her contents claim, consisting of 
£799.05 for her damaged goods minus the £350  excess.
Miss C wasnt  happy with this settlement figure or with how her claim  had been  
handled, so she raised a complaint. By 18 September 2018, AA agreed to increase 
the settlement  on her buildings claim to £3,118.47 before VAT. Although  a £350 
excess applied, AA agreed to award  this amount as compensation - meaning Miss 
C would  receive the full valuation. But it again said it wouldnt  settle  her contents 
claim as it didnt provide  her with cover for this.
Ref: DRN20976973Miss C contacted our service as she thought more compensation was due. She didnt 
cash the settlement  cheque AA sent her for her buildings claim on 10 October 2018. 
After we took on the case, AA wrote  to her directly  in February  2019  offering a further 
£637.68 for VAT.
When our investigator reviewed this complaint, she thought £350 compensation was 
fair. But she thought  AA should also pay disturbance allowance  at a rate of £10 per 
day from the date it was notified of the claim (27 April 2018) to the date it told the 
investigator it had made the property safe (12 June 2018).  She also thought  it was 
reasonable for AA to ask for evidence that VAT had been paid before it would settle  
this amount.
Miss C didnt accept this. She said AA hadnt fixed the ceiling on 12 June 2018; this 
had been done by her builders on 26 September 2018. She reiterated  her concerns 
about the claim being miscategorised,  which she thought had caused delays. She 
was unhappy  VAT wasnt included  in the settlement and that her contents  claim was 
still outstanding.  She also thought interest  should be added  to her settlement due to 
AAs delay.
Our investigator considered these points - and on making further  enquiries  with AA, 
she wasnt satisfied that it had made the ceiling safe in June 2018. So she told it to 
pay the disturbance  allowance  up to 26 September 2018 (when Miss C reports  the 
ceiling was repaired)  instead. She also agreed with Miss C that AA should cover  the 
contents claim, as she was satisfied that it did provide her with cover for this. And 
she thought 8% simple  interest per year should  be added to the settlement.
Although Miss C was unhappy with the compensation,  our investigator didnt 
increase this. Miss C had suggested that AA should  have been dealing  with the claim 
since February 2018, but our investigator explained  it hadnt been involved in the 
home emergency claim made at that time.  AA became  involved when Miss C 
reported the ceiling collapse in April 2018. Although  the investigator agreed  AA had 
caused some delays, she thought £350 compensation was fair. She also clarified  that 
a £350 excess  applied to each claim, as they each related to a different type of 
cover.
Miss C didnt accept this view. She disagreed with the level of the disturbance 
allowance and thought £350 compensation was inadequate. AA also disputed that it 
should pay interest on the buildings claim settlement as it sent a cheque for this in 
October 2018. So the matter has been  passed  to me to decide how it should  be 
resolved.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im minded to 
amend the settlement our investigator has suggested. Ill explain how and why.
Ref: DRN20976974First, Ive considered the amounts offered to cash settle Miss Cs buildings  and 
contents claims. I havent seen anything which makes me doubt the figures AA 
arrived at using evidence  from Miss C and the expert opinion  of its 
contractors/surveyors. Shes  recently raised some points about the dehumidifiers  she 
used - but says shes not claiming for these costs.  In any event, Im not persuaded 
these would be covered under her escape of water  claims - as it seems the drying 
was needed due to the issue  with the chimney,  which AA didnt cover. On balance,  
Im satisfied AAs valuation for each claim is fair and reasonable.
AA has deducted  a £350 excess from each  claim,  as theyve been made on Miss Cs 
buildings policy and her separate  contents policy respectively.  Ive also seen her 
statements of insurance confirming the excess. Although Miss C was initially  
misadvised, Im satisfied  it was reasonable for AA to deal with the claims under the 
escape of water section  of each policy - which is why the higher excess  applies. 
Taking all of this into account,  Ive concluded  its reasonable for AA to apply each 
excess as it has.
Its clear Miss C was misadvised by AA at various points about whether it provided  
her with contents cover. The records its sent me confirm it did. So AA incorrectly 
excluded her contents settlement from the offer it put forward in September  2018.  In 
situations like this where a customer has been left out of pocket  due to a 
businesss errorour standard approach is to award  8% simple interest per year to 
compensate for the loss of use of this money. I therefore think 8% simple  interest  per 
year should  accrue  on the contents claim from 18 September 2018 (when the 
contents offer should have been confirmed) to the date its settled.
However, I wont be awarding interest  on Miss Cs buildings  claim.  Although  our 
investigator recommended this, AA has pointed out that it sent Miss C a cheque for 
the building  works in October 2018.  I appreciate  Miss Cs point that she didnt accept 
this as she thought more  compensation was due. But I havent found  anything to 
show AA gave her the impression  that cashing the cheque would constitute full and 
final settlement of her complaint. Additionally, this money was intended to cover the 
costs shed incur repairing  her home. And despite  me asking Miss C for evidence of 
when she paid for her repairs,  she hasnt  substantiated that shes been left out of 
pocket. So I cant reasonably justify awarding interest on this amount.
AA has been unclear  with Miss C about  whether  it will pay for any VAT on her 
repairs. At points, its said itll do so on receipt of evidence that shes  paid VAT. But it 
also sent her a direct letter in February 2019 offering  to pay her £637.68 for VAT.  Ive 
spoken to AA and its clarified that it does  still require evidence  from Miss C that she 
paid VAT before it will release this amount. I consider that reasonable, as AA is only 
obliged to cover her (up to a point) for actual losses incurred due to an insured  event.  
Ive asked Miss C for evidence that she paid VAT (such as an invoice or VAT receipt 
from her builders) but I havent received  anything. Shes suggested  AA already has 
evidence that she paid VAT. If it does, AA should pay Miss C £637.68.  But if it 
doesnt have this, Miss C will need  to provide  such evidence in order to receive this 
payment.
Ref: DRN20976975I agree  with our investigator that Miss C should receive a disturbance  allowance  of 
£10 per day for the period  27 April 2018  to 26 September 2018. The initial  date is 
when AA took on the claim - the morning  after the kitchen ceiling partially  collapsed.  
And I accept  that the kitchen wasnt safe to use until Miss C reports  she repaired it on 
26 September 2018. The initial survey  on 4 May 2018 noted the risk of possible 
collapse of remaining sections of lathe & plaster.  And AA offered to pay for Miss C to 
say in a hotel when she flagged up that the ceiling  was still crumbling - suggesting it 
also accepted  that the kitchen wasnt safe.
AA hasnt had to pay for alternative accommodation for Miss C. And its likely she 
incurred some reasonable additional costs during this period - for example, higher 
food costs due to not having full use of her kitchen. In the absence of receipts 
confirming exactly what her additional costs were, its standard  industry practice that 
she should receive an allowance of £10 per day for when  she didnt have safe use of 
her kitchen. As this covers costs that put her out of pocket, 8% simple interest per 
year should  be added to this amount.  This interest will accrue until the date of 
settlement.
Ive also considered the non-financial impact of AAs errors on Miss C. Im not 
satisfied that AA moved this claim forward as quickly as it should have. Here are 
some key examples  of how its poor handling of the claim  caused Miss C distress  and 
inconvenience:
A new surveyor had to be appointed because the initial one was unreachable. 
This delayed Miss Cs claim.
The claim was initially dealt with by the wrong  department despite it clearly  
relating to an escape of water. Although the correct department  wouldnt 
necessarily have  progressed the claim substantially  quicker or differently, the 
error meant Miss C was misadvised about her excess - causing her 
disappointment and confusion when she found out it was more  expensive.
Despite repeatedly asking for a breakdown of what  was being covered, this 
wasnt sent on several occasions. This added to the delay as it made  it harder for 
Miss C to agree  to the works/settlement.
Miss C was wrongly told she could take a cash settlement for the flooring  and use 
AAs contractors for the rest of the works. She was disappointed  when she found  
out this was wrong, and it also delayed her claim as she then had to reconsider 
her options.
AA incorrectly told her she didnt have contents  cover on several occasions. This 
caused upset  and confusion and resulted in the contents claim being missed off 
the settlement  put forward in September 2018.
Not all the required works were initially included on the scope AA authorised. This 
delayed the claim  as Miss C had to get the contractor to amend the scope. 
AA left Miss Cs ceiling at risk despite being aware of the safety issue  from the 
initial surveyors report in early May 2018.  And it only offered alternative 
accommodation after she flagged up the risk herself later on. It also didnt  follow 
up with her about this. Even if Miss C didnt  want  to move, AA should have known 
to consider disturbance allowance - in line with industry standards.  This would 
have helped Miss C feel more  reassured  that AA was doing what it could  to help.
Ref: DRN20976976That said,  I do want to clarify some misunderstandings Miss C appears to have about 
AAs handling  of the claim. I dont consider it liable for what happened before the claim 
was notified on 27 April 2018. Miss C reports that she made  a home  emergency  claim in 
late February 2018. But this would have  been  dealt with by a different  insurer  as AA 
doesnt provide  her with home  emergency cover. Also, regarding  the drying work, Ive 
checked the initial survey  - and it didnt recommend any drying. The reason the bedroom 
remained wet appears to be due to the continuing  leak from the chimney,  which Miss C 
isnt claiming for. So I cant  conclude  that AA was responsible for carrying  out drying 
works.
Taking all of this into account,  Ive thought  about  how much compensation Miss C should  
receive. Our investigator awarded  £350  - but Im persuaded that more compensation is 
due. Having listened to calls between Miss C and AA throughout the claim, its clear she 
was repeatedly given incorrect  and misleading  information about her claim - and this 
caused her a lot of distress. Although  there were a few occasions when AA had to chase 
her up, it was much more  common  that she was doing the chasing.  And one of the 
occasions when  AA did chase her up was when it sent her the scope of works to sign off 
- but she couldnt do so as not all the work  had been  included. I consider £500 to be a 
fairer reflection of the distress and inconvenience Miss C has suffered due to AAs errors 
- in line with awards  weve previously  made  in similar cases. So Im increasing the 
compensation by £150 to £500 in total.  No interest  will apply to this award if paid on time 
(see below), as it doesnt relate to Miss C being out of pocket.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional decision is that AA Underwriting Insurance
Company Limited  should pay Miss C:
£2,768.47  (£3,118.47  minus her £350 excess) in settlement of her building  
insurance claim;
a further £637.68 on receipt of reasonable evidence that she paid at least this 
much for VAT on her repairs;
£449.05 (£799.05 minus her £350  excess)  in settlement of her contents claim, 
plus 8% simple interest per year from 18 September 2018  to the date of 
settlement;
£1,530 disturbance allowance  (£10 per day from 27 April 2018 to 26 September  
2018 inclusive). 8% simple interest  per year should be paid on this amount from 
26 September 2018 to the date of settlement; plus
£500 compensation
I invited both parties to provide further  comments/evidence before I made my final decision. 
AA said it was minded  to accept what Id proposed. But Miss C sent me a response 
explaining why she didnt accept my provisional  decision. Ive fully reviewed  her response, 
but for ease Ive summarised the key points she put forward. In summary, she said:  
Ref: DRN20976977She initially agreed to use AAs contractors, but felt forced  to take a cash settlement 
after losing confidence in them. 
Its settlement offer was made on 6 rather than 3 September 2018. And it was 
incorrect, so had to be amended.  
I should amend  my statement/conclusion  that AA doesnt have to cover  the drying 
work in the bedroom.
The cheque AA sent shouldnt have a bearing on my findings,  as it didnt include the 
contents claim or disturbance allowance  and only offered £350  compensation. She 
didnt cash this as she thought it was being offered in full and final settlement.
8% simple interest per year should  be applied  to her buildings  claim as well as her 
contents claim. And this should run from the date of loss (27 April 2018) rather  than 
18 September 2018 as Ive suggested.
AA contacted her directly in December 2018 and agreed to pay £637.68 for VAT. 
She also asked whether  I thought a number of points were  reasonable  including that AA 
didnt initially  provide a full scope  of works; fabricated that it completed emergency repairs  
in June 2018; sent a settlement cheque when it knew  she didnt accept; and that this 
settlement didnt originally  include all the repairs. 
Miss C also maintained that AA was response  for an earlier home emergency claim. Ive 
since sent her information about her policy showing that a different insurer provided her 
home emergency cover  and shes accepted this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision.
I appreciate that Miss C feels  strongly  about  how AA handled her claim. Its not our services 
role to answer every question thats put to us. But Im satisfied Ive adequately considered 
the specific points  shes asked about (such  as AAs delay providing the scope of works) 
when deciding how this complaint should  be resolved. We dont make awards to penalise  
businesses; my aim is to put Miss C back in the position shed be in but for AAs errors. Im 
satisfied the award  Ive proposedwhich includes £500 compensationdoes this, so far as 
this is reasonably possible.
Miss C has disputed my findings/comments  about  the drying works. I maintain that the initial  
report completed during  the claim didnt mention that any drying  works  were needed. And 
the second (from June  2018) said:
There has (sic) been 2 leaks in the property. One in the loft which came though the 
bedroom floor above the kitchen This is now all dry and can be redecorated. The 
other is in the bedroom and this is from the chimney breast  on the adjoining wall. 
There is no cowl on the chimney pot so water is coming down. The wall is all dry but 
has stained. 
If the bedroom remained damp, the reports suggest this was because of the chimney leak. 
Miss C hasnt claimed for that  and AA says it wouldnt  be covered. So Im not persuaded 
that AA should  pay anything  more  in relation to the drying works. 
Ref: DRN20976978Regarding the settlement offered in early  September 2018, the records Ive seen  suggest  AA 
first discussed this with Miss C during a call on 3 September  2018  although it seems it may 
not have been confirmed  in writing until 6 September 2018. This doesnt  affect  my findings. 
Although Miss C doesnt think the settlement cheque AA sent her in October 2018 should 
affect my decision, I have  to take all the evidence into account  and its down to me to 
impartially interpret this. My provisional decision explained that I wasnt minded to award 
interest on her buildings claim, as that settlement had been made available to her at the time 
of her original complaint.  Miss C has sent me the correspondence she received  from AA 
about this settlement. But I still havent  found  anything to show she was told that cashing the 
cheque would constitute full and final settlement. If Miss C wasnt sure about this, she 
could have asked  AA  yet I havent seen anything to suggest that she did. So Im not 
persuaded that additional interest should  be awarded on the buildings claim. 
 
I have awarded interest on Miss Cs contents  claim. Thats because  AA failed to offer a 
settlement for this when it should have  done. Although Miss C thinks this interest should run 
from the date of loss, I disagree. AA isnt contractually required to pay this interest;  Ive 
awarded it to compensate  her for the period she was out-of-pocket due to the delay making 
the settlement  available.  She didnt immediately  claim  for her contents at the point  of loss. 
And Im not persuaded that, but for AAs error  in turning down this claim, she would 
reasonably have received this settlement any sooner than 18 September  2018.  Thats  why 
Im awarding interest from that date onwards. 
My provisional decision acknowledged  that AA had contacted Miss C directly and offered to 
pay her for VAT. It also explained that AA had since clarified that this offer was subject to her 
providing evidence  that shes paid for VAT. I decided  it was reasonable for AA to expect her 
to demonstrate her loss before reimbursing  her. Both AA and I have asked Miss C for 
evidence that she paid VAT for her repairs.  I havent received this evidence,  nor have I seen 
anything which persuades me that AA has received it. So I havent departed from my 
provisional findings on this point. 
So, for the reasons set out above, my final decision  is the same as my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that AA Underwriting Insurance  Company 
Limited should pay Miss C:
£2,768.47  (£3,118.47  minus her £350 excess) in settlement of her building  insurance 
claim;
a further £637.68 on receipt of reasonable evidence that she paid at least this much  
for VAT on her repairs;
£449.05 (£799.05 minus her £350  excess)  in settlement of her contents claim, plus 
8% simple interest  per year from 18 September 2018 to the date of settlement;
£1,530 disturbance allowance  (£10 per day from 27 April 2018 to 26 September  2018  
inclusive). 8% simple interest per year should be paid on this amount from 
26 September 2018 to the date of settlement; plus
£500 compensation
This sum should  be paid within 28 days of being notified  by us of Miss Cs acceptance of my 
decision, failing which interest will accrue (on the amounts which havent already been paid) 
at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date of acceptance to the date of settlement (less  
any tax properly deductible).
Ref: DRN20976979If Miss C accepts  this decision,  it becomes legally binding on both parties. So she wouldnt 
then be able to take legal  action in relation to any issues covered in this case. If she rejects 
the decision, whilst that wont affect her legal rights, it will mean  that AA wont be obliged to 
comply with my decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2020.  
Rachel Loughlin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2097697