K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc did not provide alternative ways for him to notify it of 
a change of address.
background
Mr P was moving from one non-UK  country  to another and wanted to tell Santander his new 
address.   
Santander requires  that this is done in a certain  way. The normal  way is to download  a PDF 
document and fill it out before sending it off to them, but Santander  can also text an OTP 
(one time passcode) to a mobile phone number.
Unfortunately, neither  of these were  available to Mr P. He did email Santander, enclosing a 
copy of his passport  and his electronic signature, as well as telling them  online  about the 
change. But Santander said that they couldnt accept either in his situation. 
Mr P felt that either  of those would  be sufficient. With the email, the bank had his signature 
and ID to verify his identity. And as for telling them online, as he was communicating with 
Santander after logging  on to their internet banking platform (which he thought  was secure), 
then this would be enough to satisfy  Santander about his identity.  So unhappy with 
Santanders response Mr P referred  his complaint to us.  
Our adjudicator found that Santander  hadnt done anything wrong. She thought that 
Santander was entitled to set how changes of address should be notified  to them.  But she 
did ask if Santander  would accept the form from Mr P if she sent him a copy  to him to 
complete and return. Santander agreed  to this. But Mr P disagreed  and so the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to decide here is whether Santander acted reasonably  in not allowing Mr P to 
notify his change of address in a different  way.
It seems  to me that what Mr P is really  complaining  about here is Santanders policy. He is 
not saying that they did not do what that they were  supposed to do, rather  that the policy 
they have is not a reasonable  one. 
 
We are an informal  service to resolve disputes between consumers and businesses.  We are 
not a regulator and so we dont have the power to tell Santander how to run their business.   
Santander are entitled  to put in place  measures to make sure that they know  that the person 
that they are dealing  with is actually who they say they are. In the long run, that benefits all 
its customers. 
But Santander is required  to make its expectations clear. And Santander has provided a 
screenshot from its on line system (which Mr P does  have access  to) which clearly sets out 
what an account holder changing an overseas  address needs to do. 
Ref: DRN22749212But Ive also thought carefully about whether or not Santander couldve done more to assist 
Mr P in his individual circumstances  he doesnt have a mobile phone to receive  the OTP 
and he doesnt  have a printer, so he cant print off the PDF change  of details form. But I can 
see that Santanders screenshot also explains that if the account  holder cant  download the 
PDF document then they need  to contact it in writing. So overall, I think  the instructions were 
clear and Santander did offer a reasonable alternative.    
I can understand Mr Ps frustration that Santander  wouldnt accept his preferred methods for 
notifying it of his new address. And that he thinks the OTP system is flawed because the 
password cant be sent to an email address. But as mentioned above it is not for us to tell 
Santander how they should  run their business. And that would include how they carry out 
checks on peoples identity and that OTPs are sent to mobile phone numbers. But in this 
case I cant say that the way that Santander  asked Mr P to identify himself was 
unreasonable.
I can see that our investigator  has sent Mr P a change of details form for him to complete 
and return to Santander. And Santander has agreed  to accept this. So I would urge Mr P to 
complete the form (if he hasnt already done  so), so that his records  can be updated.     
I know that Mr P will be disappointed by this, but I dont uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Dan Bunting
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2274921