K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy on an M&S card taken  out in 2004. 
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. M&S  disagreed  so the complaint has been passed  to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
I think this complaint should be upheld and Ill explain the reasons why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
This policy was taken out by completing  a leaflet in a store. Mrs M cant  remember  if M&S 
advised her to take out the policy but M&S says that no advice or recommendation was 
given at the time. So Ive also considered this to have been a non-advised sale. This means 
M&S didnt  have to check the policy was right for her, but it did need to give her clear  
enough information to enable her to decide for herself if this cover was right for her. 
The policy costed £0.75 per £100 Mrs M owed on her M&S card per month. And, upon a 
successful claim, the policy wouldve paid 10% of her outstanding balance on the card each 
month. 
As the policy was taken  out in store I dont  know  for sure what was said to Mrs M. So I 
havent seen any evidence to show Mrs M was given clear information about  the cost of the 
policy, in real terms. Its possible  M&S  may have explained the amount she would pay per 
£100 she spent  on the card, but I dont know if it explained that interest would be charged on 
those premiums if there was an outstanding balance or that she would need to keep paying 
the premiums during  a claim. So I dont  think its likely Mrs M would have been made aware 
of the true cost of the policy. 
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs M as she has told us that she wouldve received three 
months full, followed by three months half pay. Shes also told us that she was earning 
£15,000 at the time and had £10,000  of savings. And I have  seen no reason to doubt  what  
Mrs M has said about her sick pay or savings. 
So looking  at what Mrs M wouldve been likely  to receive from her employers, together  with 
the money she had in savings, I dont think Mrs M wouldve thought the policy was value for 
money for her had she fully understood the costs. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen and been told, I dont  think  that M&S gave clear enough 
information to Mrs M to enable her to decide if the policy was right for her. And, if it had, I 
dont think she wouldve taken the policy out as I dont think  she wouldve considered it value 
for money.  So I think Mrs M has lost out as a result of what  M&S has done wrong. 
putting things right
Ref: DRN27209062M&S should put Mrs M in the financial  position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs M would have owed when she closed her M&S card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those. 
It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well 
as any interest added to those charges.
M&S should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs M owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, M&S can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.M&S  should add simple interest  on the difference between what Mrs M would have owed 
when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.  
C.If  when M&S works  out what Mrs M would  have owed each month without  PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, M&S should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying  interest until the point  when Mrs M would 
have owed M&S something on her M&S card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D.M&S  should tell Mrs M what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires M&S to take off tax from this interest. M&S must give
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
My understanding is that Mrs M has already received some compensation in respect of 
undisclosed commission. If that is the case M&S can deduct what it has already paid from 
the total compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I uphold this complaint and instruct  M&S to compensate 
Mrs M as outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2720906