K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that he was mis-sold a finance agreement with Sytner Limited.
background
In May 2017  Mr A was supplied with a car and entered into a personal contract  purchase  
agreement with Sytner. The term of the agreement was 48 months with monthly  repayments 
of approximately  £178.00 followed by an optional final payment  of £6,464.85. Mr A paid a 
deposit of £5250.00.
Mr A says he was advised that at the end of the term he could pay the final payment and 
keep the car, or he could hand  the car back and receive the final payment back as equity to 
use towards another car or keep as cash. Mr A says that he understood that the amount of 
equity would depend on the cars mileage and condition.
Mr A says that when  he visited the dealership to ask about changing the car he realised he 
wasnt going to get his equity back.
Mr A also says he was mis-led about the amount  of interest payable under the agreement. 
He says his payments are higher than they would be under a different type of car finance  
agreement. He also says he could have  purchased  the car with cash  if hed wanted  to but 
was advised not to.
Mr A complained to Sytner. In its final response, Sytner said the agreement hadnt been  mis-
sold. Mr A was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  think there was enough  evidence to suggest  that the agreement  was 
mis-sold. He also thought  that Mr A had been  provided with sufficient information about the 
finance agreement  and other  available  options.
Mr A didnt agree. He said that when he purchased the car he was told that he would receive 
the guaranteed minimum future  value to take as cash  or use a deposit towards another  car. 
He said it wasnt explained to him that the balloon payment would be used to pay the 
remained of the finance first.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has said that the finance agreement was mis-sold. In order to uphold this complaint I 
would need to be satisfied that prior to the point of supply the salesperson  made an untrue 
statement of fact which induced Mr A to enter into the agreement.
There are no notes  available  from the time when Mr A had his discussions with the 
dealership. I wasnt present myself  so I cant be certain of what  was said.  In circumstances  
like this I need to look at the available contemporaneous documents  as evidence of what 
was discussed  and agreed. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  
Ill reach my decision based on what I think is most likely, taking into account the available  
evidence and all the other circumstances of the case.
Ref: DRN25500532Ive looked at the finance agreement and accompanying documents. I agree with Sytner that 
these documents  provide all of the relevant  information about the type of agreement  and 
how it works. In particular, Im satisfied  that the documents clearly explain the purchase 
price, the interest  rate, the amount of the monthly repayment and the guaranteed minimum 
future value.  Mr A has signed the agreement and in doing so has confirmed that he read and 
understood it and agrees to be bound  by its terms.
Mr A has said that he was told that he would receive the GMFV  back  as equity. Ive looked  
at the documents but Im unable to find anything which  suggests  that this will happen.
Based on the available information, Im not persuaded  that there is sufficient evidence to 
show that the salesperson made  a misrepresentation. 
Ive taken into account the conversation which Mr A had with the same salesperson 
approximately 2 years  later. Its important to  be clear that the salespersons comments in 
this call (even if incorrect or misleading) dont of themselves mean that a misrepresentation 
was made  in May 2017, because only an untrue statement  made at the time can be taken 
into account when  considering whether theres been  a misrepresentation. That said Ive 
listened to the call and considered whether what the salesperson said could be considered  
indicative of what they might have said two years  earlier.
Ive listened to the entire call but Im not going to comment on every detail. My general 
impression is that although the salesperson  has made reference to the GMFV and has not 
been as clear as she couldve been when she explained what would happen at the end of 
the agreement, Im unable to say that she gave incorrect information. My analysis of the call 
is that Mr A and the salesperson were  talking at cross purposes.  When the salesperson 
realised that Mr A thought he could hand  the car back and receive the GMFV, she was very 
clear in correcting him when she said that he wouldnt get the GMFV back  but only the 
difference between  the balloon payment and what the car is worth. Im unable to say that this 
information was incorrect or misleading  and on balance, I think  its likely that the salesperson  
wouldve said something similar two years earlier.
On balance, and having considered all of the available information and the wider 
circumstances of the case,  Im unable to conclude  that the agreement  was mis-sold.
Ive considered the point made  by Mr A that this type of finance agreement wasnt  the best 
option for him, and that he had sufficient funds to purchase the car outright if hed wanted to. 
Whilst I agree that Mr A has provided  evidence to show  that he had sufficient savings to 
purchase the car outright,  I havent  seen any evidence  to  suggest that he was advised  
against doing this. Although Mr A has said that a hire purchase agreement wouldve been  
his preferred option, hes also said that he wanted to keep his monthly payments low. Im 
persuaded that paying a significant deposit and entering into a personal contract purchase 
agreement was more  suitable for Mr A given his requirements. I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest that Mr A wasnt  given the opportunity to consider all available  finance options.
Taking everything into account,  and for the reasons Ive given, Im not persuaded that the 
agreement was mis-sold. Im unable to say that Sytner has done anything  wrong  or acted 
unfairly, so I wont be asking it to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN25500533Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2550053