K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard)  mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies. 
background
This complaint is about credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 1995 on 
both a Visa card and a MasterCard. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs W says PPI wasnt discussed when  she took out her credit cards, and that she 
wouldnt have bought it if it had been  offered.  Ive noted everything  shes said.  
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mrs W and 
Barclaycard when the policies were sold. Im also mindful that these events 
happened many  years ago. I can also see that Mrs Ws credit  card application form 
was completed to show that she wanted the cover.  
I accept that its possible  PPI wasnt discussed at the time, but its equally likely that it 
was  although I can understand why Mrs W may no longer remember  this. Without 
anything else to support  what Mrs W has told me, I havent been able to safely 
conclude that Mrs W wasnt made aware  that she had a choice about buying the PPI. 
Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Mrs W, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I think  
the policies wouldve  provided a useful  benefit  to Mrs W if she couldnt work because 
of accident, sickness  or unemployment.  
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it should have been. But its unlikely  Mrs W would have been  affected by any of 
the main things the policies didnt cover. And the policies  were  competitively priced 
and had a reasonable  benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped 
her buying them.  
Which means Barclaycard doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs 
W.
Ref: DRN24483962But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about  that. Because  Barclaycard didnt tell Mrs 
W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard)  
does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) does have to pay back  to Mrs W any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2448396