K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1995. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Mrs F says FICL  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs F says she wasnt aware of the PPI. But the sale was more  than twenty years ago. So it 
wouldnt be surprising if Mrs F didnt remember it well. And her application form for the card 
had a separate section for the PPI  with boxes to tick to say either  yes or no to the PPI. 
On Mrs Fs form the yes box is ticked and she signed the form. So what I have makes me 
think Mrs F was aware she was taking the cover. It also makes me think FICL made  it clear  
Mrs F had a choice about taking the cover  and she chose  to take it. 
Given how long ago her card application  was, it isnt surprising the information I have about 
Mrs Fs circumstances  at the time of the sale isnt very consistent. But with this in mind, what  
I have doesnt  persuade  me that Mrs F wasnt employed and eligible for the PPI at the time 
she took the cover.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt have to check  the PPI was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs F got the information she needed  to decide if the PPI was 
right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But, from what Ive seen, Mrs F chose to take the cover - so it looks like she wanted  
this type of cover. And I think its likely  it wouldve been useful for her if something went 
wrong. For example,  what Ive seen doesnt persuade  me that Mrs F was affected at the time 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover. So I think  its likely she couldve claimed on 
the cover  if the circumstances  arose.  
Also from what  shes told us Mrs F wasnt entitled  to much work sick pay and didnt have a 
lot of savings  to fall back  on if she lost her job or was too sick to work. Shes said her family  
couldve helped her make  her card payments instead. But other  peoples  circumstances and 
ability to help can change. Taking  everything into account, I dont  think  better information 
about the PPI wouldve changed Mrs Fs decision to take the cover.
Ive taken into account all Mrs Fs points but, for the reasons Ive given  above,  these points 
dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN20984992my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2098499