K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr D bought the policy in 2001 at the same  time as taking out a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint because:
 I think Barclays made Mr D aware that he had a choice  about  buying the PPI, and that 
he chose to take it. I know Mr D feels Barclays didnt make this clear.  But Ive seen that 
PPI was selected on his card application  and there  was an option to say no too.
 Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr D and it seems to have been right for him based 
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. Mr D says he had no gaps in 
employment of more than a month. But like all insurance products, the PPI is intended 
to cover unforeseen events, like unexpected  long term sickness  or unemployment. And 
it seems Mr D had just started a new job, so his employment benefits  were not such  
that they made the PPI unsuitable.
 Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Mr D doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. So I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  him buying it.
Ref: DRN28445982Ive taken into account Mr Ds comments,  including what he said about  Barclays trying to 
hide that he had this policy  but these points havent changed my decision. I cant  say why 
Barclays didnt let Mr D know he had this policy when he first enquired  and I appreciate it 
must have  been  frustrating to find out later. But as I dont think  the policy was mis-sold, 
I dont think Mr D lost out financially as a result  of that mistake.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2844598