K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
April 1995. Mr W says Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays)  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Barclays had to make Mr W aware that the PPI was optional  and gain his consent before 
adding it to his card. I cant be certain  what was said when the policy was sold, but Barclays 
has provided a copy  of the application  form that was completed at the time. The form had a 
section on it for PPI where  there  is an option to select to take or decline PPI. The option to 
take PPI has been selected. If Mr W didnt  require PPI, there is an option to decline to take it. 
Mr W was also agreeing  to an important financial commitment, so I think  he would have 
looked over the form before signing in agreement  with the information  on it. So overall  I think 
Barclays made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he may not remember this now many years later. 
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr W so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr W has said he would have received good sick pay from his employer if he was too ill to 
work and that he also had some savings he could use. But this policy would  cover  10% of 
the outstanding balance  of his account  for up to 12 months if he was too sick to work or he 
lost his job. And this would be in addition to any other pay he would receive. And it wouldve 
allowed him to use any savings he had for other  expenses,  or keep them  intact for the future.  
So I still think the PPI would have been useful.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said but these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2019.
Ref: DRN20836372Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2083637