K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has closed  her account and placed a fraud  
related marker  against her record. She hasnt been able to open  another  account.
background
On 4 May 2018  a credit  of £1,000  was paid into Miss Cs account.  The following day Miss C 
transferred it to another account in her name with a different  bank. Then £250 was 
transferred back and immediately withdrawn in cash.
Barclays was told that the money  paid into Miss Cs account was fraudulent. It felt the 
evidence showed  that Miss C knew  what had happened.  It closed her account, as its terms 
and conditions allowed  it to do, if someone  misused  their account. It also registered  a CIFAS 
marker against her name. CIFAS is one of the UKs  fraud alert services.
Miss C says that a trusted friend took her bank details  from her debit card without her 
knowledge and arranged for the money  to be sent to her account because  he had lost his 
card and needed the money urgently. She says that she tried to send  the money back but 
couldnt do so because she didnt have a card reader. So she thought  shed send it to her 
account with another  bank and then send it back from there. But she faced the same  
problem. She says that she didnt know the money had been transferred fraudulently until 
Barclays closed her account.
Our investigator didnt  think that Barclays had acted unfairly in closing the account and 
placing a CIFAS marker against Miss Cs name. Having looked  at what happened and what 
Miss C told Barclays  and her other  bank  at the time,  he felt there  were  inconsistencies in 
what she said had happened.
Miss C didnt accept the investigators findings and asked  that an ombudsman review  the 
case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same overall conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
The money paid into Miss Cs account was transferred in without  the consent of the person 
from whose account  it was sent. This meant it was a fraudulent  payment.  But before placing 
the CIFAS marker against Miss Cs name,  Barclays needed to have  a reasonable belief that 
criminal charges could  be brought against  her as a result of the activity. A suspicion or 
concern isnt enough. So Ive looked  at whether Barclays  was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence  it had and the investigation it carried  out and what  the rules  say about 
applying such markers.
Having reviewed Miss Cs version  of events and the evidence  Barclays have provided, Im 
satisfied that Barclays  has sufficient evidence for a CIFAS marker to be recorded on her file. 
In coming to this view,  Ive taken into account the following reasons: 
Barclays has provided evidence  to show the inward payment received on the 4 May 
2018 was fraudulent.
Ref: DRN23677402Miss C has been inconsistent with her story  of what happened. She told Barclays that 
the money was from a friend  who made the transfer without her knowledge. Yet she told 
her other bank that the money was from a friend to repay money  she had lent to him.
Miss C says that she wasnt aware  of what was happening on her account but theres 
multiple mobile banking log ins from her phone on the 4, 5 and 6 May 2018.
Miss C says that she didnt know that the money hadnt come  from her friends account 
but she didnt  recognise the name  of the person paying the money into her account.
Miss C transferred the full amount received from her Barclays  account to another  
account in her name with a different bank on 5 May 2018 using mobile  banking.  She 
says she did this so she could  return the money  to her friend because he sent it without  
her permission.
Miss C didnt report any of this activity to Barclays  or ask it to help her send the money 
back. She says she only found out it was fraudulent after Barclays closed her account. 
The mobile app that Miss C used shows the name of the sending account. So during all of 
her online activity I think she would  have seen that the money paid into her account  wasnt  
from her friend. I would have expected her to report this to Barclays  as soon as she became 
aware of it. But she didnt do so. Instead she transferred it to another account and withdrew  
£500 cash, before transferring £250  to her friend  and transferring £250 back  to Barclays, 
which she took in cash. Based on all of this, I think Miss C had at least  some  awareness of 
what was going  on.
Taking everything into account,  I find that Barclays have met the burden of proof required by 
CIFAS to add the marker.  I appreciate that this will be a great  disappointment  to Miss C as 
the marker  is causing her difficulty now and in the future. But given what Ive said above,  I 
dont think Barclays has treated her unfairly  by recording the CIFAS marker. So Im not going 
to ask it to remove it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2020..
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2367740