K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about how HSBC  UK Bank Plc dealt with his account  switch application.
background
Mr D says that he made an application  to HSBC in 2018 for an account  switch which  would 
have paid an incentive. He says he had previous  experience  of making  a similar application  
in 2016 which he cancelled due to poor HSBC service. Mr D says he asked HSBC  if he had 
a previous account with it that would  have disqualified him from the switch  incentive and 
says he was told by HSBC he didnt have a previous  account.  He says he made  the 
application but it was rejected by HSBC  on the basis he had previously held an account. 
Mr D says hes been given conflicting information by HSBC and would like the switch 
incentive paid to him and compensation considered.
HSBC says it doesnt have a record of the call in which Mr D says he was told he didnt have 
an account that had previously been  opened.  It says Mr D didnt meet its switch terms and 
conditions to be eligible  for the incentive  as he did hold an account  in the relevant time 
period. HSBC has offered £100  compensation.
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our adjudicator thought the compensation offer was fair 
and reasonable.  The adjudicator didnt dispute that Mr D could  have been  given  conflicting  
information by HSBC but didnt think there  was a record of the call in order to decide what 
was said. The adjudicator didnt think Mr D met the switch incentive  terms and conditions 
and so couldnt order HSBC to pay that incentive.
Mr D doesnt accept  that view and says the compensation  offer isnt commensurate with the 
poor practices of a multinational bank.  He says the compensation amount isnt the issue  but 
says HSBC shouldnt  be able to act in such a way without sanctions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that HSBC has made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation. I realise  Mr D will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels  about  whats  happened.
Ive no reason to doubt what Mr D says, that he was told by HSBC that he didnt have a 
previous qualifying account with it that would have  meant he wasnt  eligible for the switch  
incentive. I think Mr D was aware  of the situation and knew  that there was the possibility that 
an account had been opened  in 2016  but closed straight away. I also think it likely that Mr D 
knowing that didnt  want to waste his time opening  a new account  in circumstances where 
there was a strong possibility that he wouldnt be eligible for the switch incentive.
So I appreciate Mr Ds frustration in these circumstances having made the switch 
application. And I also appreciate that Mr D would have spent some time checking the 
position with HSBC and in making the application  itself. So Im satisfied that HSBC should  
pay Mr D compensation. But Ive come to the conclusion that HSBCs offer of compensation 
is both fair and reasonable. Im satisfied that Mr D didnt suffer  any financial loss as a result 
of what happened  and that if hed been given the correct advice in the first place  he would  
have been told he wasnt eligible for the switch incentive. So I cant fairly  order HSBC to pay 
the switch incentive.
Ref: DRN20291622I appreciate what Mr D says about  the level of compensation in comparison to the size of a 
multi-national bank  and that sanctions should  be imposed. But I should explain to Mr D that 
we are not the regulator of banks  and building societies and so its not our role to punish or 
fine a business  for any mistakes it may make. So I hope Mr D appreciates that whilst I share  
his frustration with what took place  I cant impose  the sanctions he would like.
Overall I think  the compensation that HSBC  has offered is fair and reasonable. But I also 
appreciate that Mr D may not wish to accept that offer and so I will leave  it to him to decide  if 
he wishes to do so.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of £100 
compensation. Mr Ds acceptance  of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2029162