K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr B says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
I think RBS made it clear that Mr B didnt have  to take out the PPI and he nonetheless chose 
to take it out. I say this because Ive seen  a copy of the application form that Mr B completed  
when he applied for the credit card, and this form included a separate  section relating to PPI 
which asked him to tick a box if he wanted  the cover. Mr B has ticked the box to say he did 
want the PPI, and theres nothing on this part of the form to suggest  that the cover  was in 
any way compulsory.
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. I appreciate  that Mr B had 
good sick pay  6 months full pay followed by 6 months half pay  but the PPI could have 
paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful  claim,  and would  have covered him 
for unemployment as well as sickness. With this in mind, I still think the PPI could have 
provided him with a useful benefit.  So I dont  think better information about the PPI would  
have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  RBS didnt  tell Mr B, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said, but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN23449042my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2021.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2344904