K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that she was mis-sold a packaged  bank account  (PBA) by Lloyds Bank 
PLC (Lloyds). She says she was led to believe she had to take the account, that she wasnt  
told shed have to pay for it. She also says that she could have got the benefits  more 
cheaply elsewhere.
background
Mrs E had a free account with Lloyds from 2005,  which she upgraded to a Silver PBA in 
October 2007. At the time it was sold, the Silver  PBA cost £7.95 per month in return  for a 
range of benefits. The key ones were European  travel insurance; breakdown cover;  and 
mobile phone insurance.
Mrs E complained to Lloyds about the sale of the account, but it denied  it had done anything 
wrong, so she brought her case to this service. Having looked at the evidence,  the 
adjudicator didnt think the PBA had been  mis-sold, and so didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs E doesnt accept that and has asked an ombudsman to look at her case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to the sale of 
packaged bank  accounts on our website,  which everyone can read. Ive kept this approach 
in mind when considering  what  to do about Mrs Es case, and, having  done so, Im not 
upholding it. Ill explain why.
Was Mrs E given  a fair choice?
Mrs E says that she was not told it was an option to keep her fee free account, and that it 
was inferred that this account would no longer exist for my needs  so I should change  to the 
silver account. She hasnt given any detail as to why she inferred  that, or indeed  why she 
would have found it plausible, given that she held a fee free account with Lloyds. Despite 
that fact, she has also said that she was  not aware of any free account,   which isnt 
plausible under these circumstances.
She also says she wasnt told that there would be a fee for the Silver account, and I dont 
doubt that is her sincerely held recollection, some twelve years later. But that doesnt really  
fit with her being told she had to upgrade   why would the bank tell her she had to change to 
an account without  a fee, but which came with a range of benefits?  And as she has also 
confirmed that she was aware of the fee after a few months  I think  its likely she would 
have raised a concern at the time had she been lied to and told it would be free.
So the evidence,  including Mrs Es testimony,  leads me to conclude it is more  likely than not 
that she chose  to upgrade to the Silver  PBA, knowing she didnt have to.
Was the PBA a reasonable  fit for Mrs Es circumstances,  and did Lloyds give her the 
information she needed about it?
Both parties  accept that Lloyds recommended the account  to Mrs E. That means it needed 
to check that the benefits of the account were a reasonable  fit for her. She agrees that she 
travelled; drove a car; and had a mobile phone.  In fact, the notes from the sale suggest  that 
Ref: DRN25461992it was the travel insurance that was the main appeal of the Silver  PBA for her. I can see that 
she registered several handsets on the mobile phone  insurance, as well as making  at least  
one successful claim. I can also see that she tried to use the breakdown  cover. So the 
benefits of the account look to have been  useable by, and potentially  useful to, Mrs E and 
therefore Lloyds  recommendation was a fair one.
Mrs E says that she only used the benefits because  she believed she had to have the PBA.  
But Ive already explained why I dont think that is likely.  And the question of whether those 
benefits were a good fit for her is a separate one.
I havent seen  enough evidence to allow me to reach  a finding that Lloyds did give Mrs E full 
information about this PBA. But that doesnt mean I should automatically uphold  her 
complaint. I would additionally need to think that a lack of information has caused her to miss 
out  that is, that she wouldnt have agreed to the PBA if shed known more about it. That 
isnt the case  here. Mrs E confirmed that she has registered for and used some of the 
benefits, and that she was aware  of the cost. I havent seen anything which leads me to 
conclude that if shed had more or better information  about  the PBA she would have 
declined to take it. So she hasnt lost out.
Should Lloyds  have reviewed and recommended competitors products that may have been 
cheaper?
In recommending the Silver PBA, Lloyds was not acting as an Independent Financial 
Advisor. It was trying  to sell its products,  which all businesses, including financial ones, are 
entitled to do. It was for Mrs E to do research and shop around to get the best deal for her. 
So even if the PBA represented an expensive way to get the benefits in question, that 
doesnt mean that Lloyds did anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Lloyds doesnt  need to do 
anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2546199