K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc, (trading as Halifax), mis-sold  them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance, (MPPI), policy during a meeting in 1997.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
The policy was taken  out at the same time as a mortgage. And although the latter  was in 
Mr and Mrs Ms joint names the insurance only covered Mr M.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs M say that they understood that the MPPI was compulsory, and an integral 
part of the mortgage.  And that it was necessary  to take it if their mortgage application 
was to be successful.  I dont dispute  that that is how Mr and Mrs M now remember what  
happened during the meeting.  However, it was over 20 years ago and I dont find that its 
fair and reasonable to rely solely on Mr and Mrs Ms recollection of what  took place 
during it. 
Having looked  at the paperwork  signed  by Mr and Mrs M, on balance,  I think Halifax  did 
make it clear  that Mr and Mrs M didnt  have to take out the MPPI and they chose to take 
it. I say this because their signed  mortgage application has a section in it dealing with 
MPPI. This says that Halifax recommends, that the applicants consider taking out the 
insurance, (my emphasis).  And Mr M has signed  underneath this to say he wants to take 
advantage of it. 
Further, Mr M had to sign a separate application  for the policy which  I consider shows  
that it was a separate product. 
Halifax recommended  the MPPI to Mr and Mrs M so it had to check  that it was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because:
oMr M was eligible for the insurance;
oMr M wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover, such  as 
those affecting  someone  with a pre-existing medical condition;
oMr Ms income was higher then Mrs Ms so I dont think that it was unreasonable  that 
he was the sole insured;
oThe policy was reasonably priced by reference  to other  policies available  in the 
market at the time. And it had a reasonable benefit. And I havent  seen anything to 
suggest that Mr and Mrs M couldnt afford  it. In any event, as the MPPI was paid for 
monthly, Mr and Mrs M could  have cancelled it at any time without further cost;
Ref: DRN26996912oMr and Mrs M say that Mr M was in secure employment and young and healthy  so he 
wasnt likely to need the policy. However  the point of insurance  is to give cover  for 
the unexpected so I dont find that is a reason  to consider the recommendation 
unsuitable;
oMr M was entitled to sick pay from his employer.  And he and Mrs M had some 
savings. But, following a successful  claim,  the policy would have paid out in addition. 
This means that these other sources of funds  would have available to meet  
Mr and Mrs Ms other expenses if Mr M had been  unable to work  because of 
accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. 
The payments would have been  for up to 12 months in respect of any claim. That is 
to say, the policy could have paid out on more than one occasion. And the benefits 
were not initially restricted  to a maximum of £4,800,  as Mr and Mrs M have 
suggested. So I think that the policy could  have been of use to Mr and Mrs M.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M about  the MPPI  wasnt  as clear  
as it should have been. But it seems  that they chose to take it out - so it looks  they 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for them  if 
something went wrong. So I dont think better information about  the MPPI  would have 
put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the MPPI premium before Mr and Mrs M took out a further advance in 
2011. It has now agreed to pay back any commission and profit  share that was above 
50% of the MPPI premium after Mr and Mrs M took out a further  advance  - and I think 
that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank  of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland lc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2020.
Ref: DRN26996913Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2699691