K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Tradewise Insurance Company Limited  hasnt handled his claim fairly  
made under his commercial insurance policy.  
background
Mr D is a taxi driver.  On 22 March 2018  he was due to pick up passengers from Gatwick 
Airport. As he arrived early, he rested  up in a layby nearby. Whilst there a supermarket lorry 
reversed into his taxi and pushed the vehicle back several feet and up a kerb.  There  was 
damage to the front of the vehicle. Mr D proceeded to pick up his passengers and noted an 
oil leak and so he bought more oil to top up.
Mr D made  a claim against third party insurer. An inspection of the taxi was carried  out. The 
engineer found  light damage  to the front of the taxi. But it didnt agree any damage to the 
engine was caused by the accident;  it said it appeared to have been caused  by a grinder. So 
it wasnt willing to pay anything further.
Mr D obtained his own engineers report which concluded the damage  was of the sort 
caused by being pushed  back and over a kerb. Because of that Mr D decided  to claim 
against his own policy. 
Tradewise arranged for an independent  report.  That report  agreed  with the third party 
insurers report. It found the damage  caused  by the accident was light damage to the front of 
the taxi, but that the damage to the engine wasnt as a result  of the accident. So it didnt  
agree that further settlement was due. Not happy  with that Mr D complained to Tradewise. 
Tradewise stood by its decision.
Mr D asked us to look into the matter. Our investigator concluded Tradewise  had handled 
the claim fairly. She pointed out that the damage  to the engine was higher than the subframe 
and had the damage been caused  by the kerb she would expect to see damage to the 
subframe as well, but this wasnt evident  in the pictures in the reports. 
Mr D has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. He called  us explaining 
doesnt believe the claim has been handled  fairly.  And he wants to understand why the 
engineers reports  differ and why the insurers reports  are considered more persuasive than 
his.   
Whilst the complaint  was with us, Mr D confirmed he wasnt willing to accept the offer made  
by the third party insurer for the damage, outside of anything related to the engine. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
Mr Ds claim is against the third party insurer. The third party  insurer admitted liability for 
what happened. I cant look at a complaint about whether or not the third party has made a 
fair offer to Mr D. All I can look at is whether or not Tradewise has progressed Mr Ds claim 
fairly. 
Ref: DRN26691152I should point  out that even though Mr D has submitted  a claim through Tradewise, in the 
circumstances of this case and as it admitted liability, the third party insurer is still 
responsible for putting any accident damage right and the costs associated  with that. Given 
that, I dont  think there is any vested  interest in Tradewise finding the engine  damage wasnt  
accident related  if it was.
The third party insurer arranged an inspection of the taxi. It agreed there was light damage 
to the front of the car. But it had concerns the damage to the underside of the engine  wasnt  
consistent with the accident. It has provided  a number  of pictures of the taxi, including the 
engine. 
Mr D disagreed with that and obtained his own report. I have considered  this report  and can 
see the conclusion  was the damage could be consistent with the car being pushed  up and 
over a kerb. It also noted damage to the oil level sensor. But there were no pictures  provided  
with the report  to show the level of inspection carried out. I note it also concluded the 
immobiliser not working was due to the accident   but no explanation has been provided for 
why the inspector reached that conclusion. 
Because of the conflicting reports,  I find it was fair for Tradewise to arrange an independent 
inspection to establish whether or not the engine  damage was accident related. Although I 
appreciate Mr D doesnt think its independent, as mentioned above, I dont think  Tradewise 
has any vested interest  here.  And just because it was commissioned by Tradewise  that 
doesnt mean it wasnt independent. 
That report  provides  a number of pictures,  showing the level of inspection  done. And this 
included closer pictures of the damage to the engine. The report  concurs with the first report  
carried out. But it goes  further than the first report.  It considered whether there was any 
damage to the surrounding areas  of the engine and it concluded there wasnt  any; it found 
there wasnt any damage to the subframe despite this sitting  lower than the sump and 
sensor. And the report concluded the level of damage caused  to the engine wasnt 
consistent with the damage to the front of the car  which  was considered  light.  
Tradewise was presented with two separate engineers finding the engine damage wasnt  
caused by the accident.  There is no explanation  in Mr Ds report  as to how damage was 
caused to the sump  and sensor  but not the surrounding, lower,  frame of the engine. And no 
other explanation has been  put forward for this. There is also no explanation as to why the 
damage underneath appears to suggest  a greater  impact than the damage to the front of the 
taxi. In the circumstances,  I dont  find Tradewise was acting unfairly in relying on the report  it 
commissioned and not pursue the third party insurer for the costs to repair  the engine. 
Tradewise did explain Mr D could pursue the third party insurer himself,  if he was still of the 
view the damage was accident related. And that option  remains open to Mr D. 
As I dont find Tradewise has acted unfairly  in progressing Mr Ds claim I dont make any 
award against it or ask it to take any further action.  I understand the third party  insurer made 
an offer to Mr D. I leave it to him to decide whether or not to accept that offer or pursue this 
matter through  other avenues. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN26691153Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2669115