K820x#14complaint
Mr G on behalf of company GMS complains  that HSBC UK Bank Plc is duplicating sheet 
numbers when it produces statements for the account, which is causing confusion and 
inconvenience in filing the companys accounts.
background
Mr G brings this complaint  on behalf  of his company GMS. He says that when printing off the 
online statements, some  of the page numbers  are duplicated which  is confusing  and 
inconvenient. Hes unhappy as he raised  this with HSBC last year who said it was a 
temporary issue but the problems now recurring. Hed like HSBC to take steps to stop it 
happening and to admit  its mistake.
HSBC said the problem happens  when  there  are no transactions,  just account information, 
recorded on a particular page.  When viewed  online, the page isnt numbered  but it is when  
its printed off. However because theres  no transactions on the page,  the system  ignores 
this page when it adds the numbers for the next statement. As a result  some page numbers 
are duplicated  although  not any page  with transactions. HSBC  said its not a problem when 
either viewing the statements online or when receiving paper statements.  And its said ts 
aware of the problem  and its been reported to see if it can be changed as its a systems 
issue, it cant correct it on GMS account alone.
Our investigator said this had first been raised in 2017. At that time HSBC had explained 
why it was happening and offered GMC compensation. He understood why Mr G was 
unhappy it was still happening but it wasnt for us to tell HSBC to change its systems. And 
although he acknowledged this issue was causing GMS some inconvenience,  he didnt think  
it was sufficiently serious to warrant further  compensation.
Mr G disagreed and said in summary:
It was unacceptable  for HSBC  to continue to produce statements with duplicate sheet 
numbers. It was confusing  and hed never experienced this with any other bank or 
credit card account.
HSBC had said in 2017 the problem was resolved but this wasnt correct  as its 
happening again
He wasnt seeking compensation but to get HSBC to correct the problem. If the page  
numbers werent correct then there seemed no point in numbering  them.  He felt 
HSBC should  make sure the statements were accurate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  this isnt the decision Mr G was 
hoping for but having done so I wont be asking HSBC  to do anything  more as Ill now 
explain.
The problem in this case is that if there are no actual transactions  on a page of the online 
statement, the system doesnt give it a page  number unless its printed off. And for some  
reason when the next statement is printed off, the numbering starts from the last page  with 
Ref: DRN25399412transactions, not the last page of the previous statement.  As a result  some of the 
downloaded pages have duplicate numbers although it seems its not an issue when the 
statements are viewed  on line.
It doesnt affect the information as to the use of the account but I can understand why Mr G 
finds it frustrating. But this is a systems  issue, not a mistake on GMSs individual account, 
and its not for me to tell HSBC how to manage its systems. I can see its raised this issue  
with its business  internet  banking team to see if there is a technical solution and I think  thats  
a fair approach in the circumstances.
I think it was reasonable  for HSBC to compensate Mr G the first time he complained 
because at that time he didnt know what the problem was or why it was happening. But 
thats not the case now and for that reason, I dont think its reasonable to ask HSBC  to 
continue to compensate  GMS  for this same  issue. 
I accept its not ideal but I cant  see that GMS has suffered any actual financial loss as a 
result. And any confusion  as to the cause has now been resolved. In the circumstances I 
wont be asking HSBC  to do anything more to resolve this particular complaint although I 
would hope that it will continue to try to find a technical solution to the issue  across the 
board.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint brought by GMS.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G on behalf of 
company GMS to accept  or reject my decision before 25 July 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2539941