K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited unfairly  cancelled  
his joint life and critical illness  policy from the start, and turned down his late wifes critical 
illness claim. 
background
This complaint is brought by Mr S about a life and critical illness  policy (the policy) he held 
jointly with his wife. The policy  was designed to provide  a lump sum in the event that either 
Mr or Mrs S died or were diagnosed with a critical illness.  
Mr and Mrs S applied  for the policy in December 2016, but didnt say when they wanted  the 
policy to start. Their broker contacted Legal and General to confirm  this in March  2017 and 
the policy went into effect on 7 March 2017.
Mrs S was tragically diagnosed with cancer in August 2018, and submitted a claim to 
Legal and General. She sadly passed  away in May 2019. 
Having considered the claim, Legal  and General cancelled the policy  and turned down the 
claim. It said Mrs S didnt give full and complete  answers to the lifestyle and health  questions 
it asked during the application process. Specifically,  it says she didnt mention when asked 
that shed received advice from a doctor to reduce the amount of alcohol she drank. It also 
noted that when the policy  started in March 2017, shed been scheduled to have an 
operation to remove a cyst from her ovary. It said because  this happened before the cover 
started, she shouldve informed  it about this too.
Our investigator considered the case,  and felt Legal and Generals decision was reasonable 
and in line with the relevant laws. He said that Legal  and General had demonstrated that if 
Mrs S had answered the questions on the application form correctly, it wouldnt  have  agreed  
to give her a policy. So he concluded it wouldnt be fair to expect it to pay the claim.
Mr S disagreed. He noted when the application  was first completed Mrs S hadnt been 
scheduled for an operation  and when  they returned to the matter  in March 2017  they were  
in the middle of moving house, which led to them overlooking this.
Our investigator considered this, but explained that while the oversight was understandable, 
it wasnt Legal and Generals fault  so it was still entitled to turn down the claim.  He also 
said that the question about  advice to drink  less alcohol  also appeared to have  been  
answered incorrectly  and this, by itself, wouldve led Legal and General to cancel the 
cover.
Legal and General hasnt  added any further information or arguments.
As Mr S hasnt  agreed, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
I note that Mr S also complained about another  Legal  and General policy which was held in 
Mrs Ss sole name. But as we havent  yet received confirmation of, and permission  from, the 
person legally responsible for administering  Mrs Ss estate, we cant  consider that at this 
time  so I will only address the joint policy here.
Ref: DRN29470052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for much the same reason as the investigator.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr S, so Id like to explain how Ive reached  this conclusion. 
But first Id like to give Mr S my condolences on his bereavement and acknowledge the 
difficulties hes told us about, which must  have caused him a great deal of distress.  
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding  approach  to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and insurer  when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA  places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading),  provided 
the insurer has asked  a clear question. If the consumer  doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions  accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
Was there a misrepresentation?
As part of the application  Mr and Mrs S were advised of the importance of answering  all 
questions truthfully and accurately. They  were also advised that if any of the information 
was later discovered to be incorrect it may lead to the claim not being paid, or the policy 
being amended or cancelled. So Ive considered whether Mrs S answered the questions 
truthfully and accurately.  
Legal and General has suggested that Mrs S failed to disclose advice shed received to 
reduce the amount she was drinking, and also that surgery  was planned to remove  a cyst 
from her ovary. Ive considered each  of these issues in turn. 
alcohol consumption
As part of the application, Mrs S was asked:
Have you ever been told by a health professional that you should reduce the amount of 
alcohol you have because  you were  drinking too much? You may ignore being told this on 
one occasion  provided it was before age 25.
Mrs S answered no. But her medical records show this was incorrect.   The records  show  
that in 2006 she spoke  with her GP about her alcohol intake.  It was noted  daily xs alcohol 
intake since starting at noon  up to 20+ units daily but manages alcohol  free days.  Mrs S 
expressed a wish to enjoy responsible drinking in the future. The GP advised  her to address 
alcohol first. It was also suggested  she keep  an alcohol diary  and to have a follow up in a 
week. 
Im satisfied the advice  Mrs S received during  this appointment amounted  to advice  to 
reduce the amount of alcohol  she was drinking.  She wasnt aged  under 25 at the time of the 
advice, so Legal and General was reasonably entitled to expect her to disclose this in 
response to the clear  question asked. 
I appreciate Mrs S had only received advice to cut down her drinking on one occasion 
eleven years  before  she completed the application. She also explained to Legal  and General  
Ref: DRN29470053during the claims  assessment that it was a one-off event when she was recovering from a 
bereavement. But the question asked if shed  ever  been advised to reduce how much she 
was drinking. The question didnt suggest  a one-off event could be discounted. So while  
I can understand why Mrs S may have  overlooked  this incident when completing the 
application, I nevertheless consider she should  reasonably have disclosed it in response to 
the clear question asked.  
ovarian cyst
As part of the application, Mrs S was also asked:
Apart from anything you've already told us about  in this application, during the last 2 years  
have you seen a doctor,  nurse or other  health professional for:
-a growth, lump,  polyp  or tumour?
Apart from anything  you've  already  told us about  in this application, do you have any medical
condition or symptom that: 
-you're  waiting to be seen at or attending hospital for?
Mrs S answered no to both questions.  While this appeared to be correct at the time Mrs S 
completed the application in December 2016,  she was under a duty to update  
Legal and General if anything changed  between completing the application and the policy 
starting in March 2017. 
Mrs S completed an online form in late March 2017 confirming that her earlier answers  were  
still correct. But her medical records show that in February 2017 shed had a consultation 
with a specialist  nurse  practitioner where  she discussed lower abdominal pain shed been 
experiencing. It was noted has ovarian cyst says awaiting for them  to be removed. Its not 
clear when the ovarian cyst was first diagnosed,  but Im satisfied in February 2017, a month  
before the policy started,  Mrs S had seen a nurse  about a growth  or lump  so I consider she 
should have updated her answer to the first question to yes. As she was also waiting for 
the cyst to be removed, I think she also have reasonably disclosed she was waiting to be 
seen at or attend  hospital. 
Mr S has suggested that Mrs S had told their independent financial adviser (IFA)  that she 
was awaiting surgery to remove the ovarian cyst. But as the investigator  has explained, 
theres no evidence  this information  was passed on to Legal and General. Any concern 
about this would need to be raised  directly  with the IFA. 
Mr S explained that when  the policy started he and Mrs S were  due to move home, and so it 
wasnt high on their priorities to update  Legal and General about Mrs Ss upcoming surgery. 
While I appreciate they may not have thought about reviewing their application answers, 
they were still under  a duty to ensure the information  was correct. By completing the online 
form in March 2017 Mrs S confirmed  that her answers  were  still accurate, so 
Legal and General were entitled to rely on them when deciding  whether to offer cover,  and if 
so on what terms. 
Mr S also noted that he and his wife had given  permission to Legal and General to request 
their medical records when they first applied for cover. He suggested  that it should have 
checked these  records before  offering  cover. But I disagree. 
Ref: DRN29470054Under CIDRA the duty lies with the consumer to take reasonable care to disclose all relevant 
information in response to clear questions. Theres no reciprocal duty on the insurer to check 
these details are correct. In any event,  the application form confirms that additional medical  
information wouldnt be collected for all applications  it says Around one in ten applications 
will be checked by obtaining  information from your doctor. But even  if Legal  and General 
had completed extra  checks at the point  of application, this wouldve resulted in the cover 
being declined  at that stage, for the reasons Ill explain below. So I cant  say Mr S is now in a 
worse position than he wouldve been  in had Legal and General obtained medical  
information at the point  of application.  
What would Legal and General have done  differently?
The action an insurer can take depends  on whether the misrepresentation was deemed to 
be careless, or deliberate or reckless. 
While Legal and General has suggested  Mrs Ss misrepresentation was deliberate  or 
reckless, I dont  think its proved this to be the case.  But in any event I can see its applied 
the same  principle it wouldve applied had it classified the misrepresentation as careless. 
CIDRA explains that where  its found a consumer  has made  a careless misrepresentation, 
the insurer is entitled to take the action it wouldve  taken had it known the relevant 
information at the point  of application.  Im satisfied Legal and General has taken this action. 
So I cant say Mr S has been disadvantaged  as a result of Legal and General classifying the 
misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. 
Legal and General has shown that had it known  Mrs S was waiting for the removal of a cyst 
it would  have postponed cover for six months. Within  those  six months Mrs Ss medical 
records show that she had further complications and was later referred  for a hysterectomy. 
Had Legal and General  been aware  of this it would again have postponed the application 
pending Mrs Ss surgery. Sadly  the surgery resulted in Mrs Ss eventual  diagnosis of cancer.  
At this stage Legal  and General wouldnt have offered any cover. 
As the underwriting  decision  would only have  impacted Mrs Ss cover,  Legal and General 
offered Mr S the opportunity to continue with cover  in his own name. As he didnt accept this 
Legal and General cancelled the policy from the start and returned all the premiums that 
were paid towards the policy. As this effectively returns both parties to the position they 
wouldve been in had cover not started, I consider this to be fair and in line with CIDRA. So I 
wont be asking Legal and General to take any further action.  
Overall, while  I can understand  Mr Ss disappointment that the policy  has been cancelled, 
and the claim declined, I cant conclude that Legal and General has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Ref: DRN29470055Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2947005