K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), Halifax  at the time, mis-sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and I will explain why.
Mrs W says it wasnt  made  clear  the policy was optional  with little or no chance to opt out 
of the product through  a no option. Both Mrs W and BoS say the policy was sold in branch 
and having seen a copy of her credit card application form I also think  it was completed  in 
branch. I say this because, Mrs Ws personal details have been pre-populated on the 
application and both Mrs W and BoS representative have signed the application form on the 
same day. 
On the application form there is a section related to PPI and the box opting for the policy  has 
a printed cross in it. As this policy was sold in a face-to-face meeting I think its likely this 
selection came about as a result of a conversation  between  BoS and Mrs W, where  PPI was 
discussed. Mrs W has signed  the form so I think its likely to reflect what she wanted. And 
there s nothing  on the form to suggest the PPI was compulsory. So on balance  I think its 
likely BoS made it clear that Mrs W didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why she cant remember  this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs W so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover. 
Mrs W told us she would  have be entitled to six months full pay, following by six months 
half pay from her employer  and that she was entitled to significant  redundancy. But this 
policy could have paid out for up to 12 months if she was unable  to work due to accident  or 
sickness which would be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, her sick pay. It also 
provided the same level of cover in the event Mrs W was made unemployed. And if she lost 
her job Mrs W might  quickly have needed  to use her redundancy pay to cover other 
important expenses. So I still think the policy could  have  been useful to her.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs W about the PPI wasn t as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said,  but for the reasons Ive explained above, I 
don t think her policy was mis-sold.  So BoS doesn t need  to refund everything Mrs W paid 
Ref: DRN24533112for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs W back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
understand it has already paid this to Mrs W. I dont think  it needs to do anything more.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2019.
Staci Rowland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2453311