K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy that he has been  contacted by debt collection agents  (which I will refer to 
as M) who are asking  him to pay approximately  £31,000 for a mortgage shortfall debt owed 
to Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax).  Mr C has been helped  in bringing his complaint 
by Ms B. For ease  of reference, I will refer to Mr C throughout.
background
Mr C (and his wife, Mrs C) used to have  a mortgage  with Halifax on the property they lived in 
as their home. The mortgage was in their joint names. Unfortunately  after their marriage 
broke up the mortgage fell into arrears and the property was repossessed by Halifax  on 
11 July 2012.  The property was sold at auction on 9 November 2012 for £88,000. This left a 
shortfall debt of almost  £31,000. 
I am very sorry  to note that Mrs C passed away on 1 October  2015.  
Mr C has now been contacted by M on behalf  of Halifax, pursuing  the shortfall debt. Mr C is 
unhappy about this. He says that he doesnt  believe the amount  owed  is correct,  as his late 
wife had Payment  Protection Insurance (PPI) cover  for the mortgage. Despite requests for 
information and documents,  Mr C says that hes received nothing, even  after he made  a 
Subject Access  Request  (SAR). 
Mr C says that Halifax and its agents,  M, havent  treated him fairly and that hes not been 
provided with the support he needed  when Mrs C passed  away. As a single  parent,  Mr C 
says that he is entitled  to be supported  by Halifax and M and treated fairly.
Halifax didnt uphold  the complaint. In its final response letter,  Halifax  explained how the 
shortfall debt had arisen and that M had been instructed to recover  this amount.
Dissatisfied with Halifaxs response,  Mr C complained to us. An investigator looked at the 
complaint but didnt  think Halifax had done anything wrong. Mr C asked for an ombudsman  
to review the complaint. He is still unhappy  that his SAR hasnt been answered  to his 
satisfaction. Mr C has also said that hes never  failed to try to resolve the outstanding debt, 
but Halifax didnt  provide  him with any help and instead progressed  the matter to M.
Mr C maintains that his wife had PPI for the mortgage, and doesnt  accept the investigators  
assurance that Halifax has told him there  was no such PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to express  my condolences to Mr C on the loss of his wife. I dont doubt  
that this has been a stressful time for him. But I must put aside my natural  feelings of 
empathy for him and consider this case on the basis of the available evidence.
Ref: DRN27021242Mr Cs position is that he believes his wife had PPI which should have covered some, if not 
all, of the mortgage shortfall debt. He doesnt accept Halifaxs  confirmation  to us that there is 
no such PPI.
Halifax has confirmed that there  was no PPI for this mortgage account.  Generally, mortgage 
PPI policies are stand-alone policies, arranged separately from the mortgage, the premiums 
for which are paid direct to the insurer (so not part of the mortgage  repayment). So I accept 
what Halifax has said  that it has no record of any PPI connected with the mortgage 
account. 
I think there might have been  some confusion on the part of Mr C about what mortgage PPI 
covers. 
Generally mortgage  PPI will cover mortgage repayments for a fixed period   generally a year 
or two  if someone  is unable to work due to accident, sickness  or unemployment. It is not 
life insurance, which  pays out a lump sum on the death of the insured. 
I have been provided with no evidence  that Mrs C had taken out a PPI policy to cover the 
mortgage repayments in the event she became unable  to work. But even if she had done so, 
and had continued paying the premiums on the policy after the property was repossessed 
and sold (which I think is unlikely), the policy would not have paid out anything  at all on her 
death, as PPI policies do not provide any lump sum death  benefit. 
So even if Mrs C had PPI (and there is no evidence that she did), it would not have provided 
any payment to cover the mortgage  shortfall debt which  Halifax is now claiming from Mr C.
I note that Mr C explained to Halifax that at the time of Mrs Cs death they were going  
through a divorce and he had no control over her finances, as her mother dealt with this. But 
Mr C said he thought  the account  should  have been  settled  as part of Mrs Cs insurance  
payout after she passed away. Its understandable, given that they were  divorcing, that Mr C 
isnt able to provide details of any insurance  policy  in Mrs Cs name. But, as I stated above, if 
there had been  PPI, it wouldnt have paid out a lump sum to clear the shortfall debt in any 
event.
From what  Mr C has said, I understand that Mr C believes  there was an insurance payout, 
but that Mrs Cs mother was dealing with this. If there had been a life insurance policy  which 
paid out a lump  sum on the death of Mrs C  and Ive seen no evidence to suggest that she 
did have a life insurance policy  and if that policy paid out a lump  sum to Mrs Cs mother 
which Mr C thinks  should have been used to pay the mortgage shortfall debt,  thats 
something hell need to take up with Mrs Cs mother.  
After considering all the evidence,  Im satisfied the shortfall debt has not been reduced by 
any insurance payout and remains at about £30,600.
When seeking to recover a debt, Halifax is required to treat consumers positively and 
sympathetically and to give fair consideration to their proposals to repay the debt. Mr C says 
that Halifax has failed  to offer him support after Mrs C passed away.  Ive looked at Halifaxs 
contact notes and Im satisfied Halifax has tried to discuss  the matter  with Mr C. I dont 
consider its calls, or the contact from M, to be inappropriate or excessive.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that Halifax is entitled to pursue Mr C for payment of 
the outstanding debt.  Mr C was contacted by M within the required time limit of six years  
Ref: DRN27021243from when the shortfall arose. There is therefore no basis on which I can conclude  that 
Halifax is acting unfairly.
If Mr C is experiencing financial difficulties, there is free debt advice available  from Citizens  
Advice, StepChange or Shelter. We can provide contact  details  for those agencies, if Mr C 
would like us to. 
I note Mr C is unhappy that hes not received a satisfactory response  to his SAR from Halifax 
or M. Failure to comply  with a SAR falls within the remit of the Information Commissioners  
Office, not the Financial  Ombudsman Service.
I also see that Mr Cs made some further points. He says that the mortgage  was sold in 2008 
without any assessment of affordability by Halifax, and that in 2012 the property was sold by 
Halifax for less than it was worth. These are new complaint issues, so I wont be considering 
them here. Mr C will need to raise  these issues with Halifax before we can consider them 
here, subject, of course, to the time limits  set out in our rules.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2702124