K820x#14complaint
NRAM Limited wrote to Mr and Mrs N in April 2018  as a Loyalty Discount had been applied 
to their mortgage account later than it should  have been. Mr and Mrs N are unhappy with the 
resolution of that matter  as they feel they shouldnt have had to make a mortgage  payment 
in the month  the remediation was completed.
background
Mr and Mrs N have a mortgage  with NRAM and theyve been in arrears  for some time. The 
mortgage they took out was on an initial fixed rate and then reverted to the standard variable 
rate (SVR). After a few years on the SVR their account should have benefited from a Loyalty 
Discount.
In April 2018 NRAM wrote to Mr and Mrs N. It said it had carried  out a review of the account 
and had identified  that the Loyal Discount had been  applied late. It calculated the 
compensation due for that error, breaking it down into the difference in capital and the 
difference in interest. The capital difference of £1,189.03 was used to reduce the overall 
mortgage balance  (thus reduced the arrears balance) and the remaining £686.89 was an 
interest adjustment to the account. In effect  the remediation reworked the mortgage  account 
as if the Loyalty Discount had been applied correctly, and credited the overpaid capital sum 
to the account  to reduce  the arrears balance.
There was a further remediation exercise in May 2018 but Ive not dealt with that here as 
thats the subject  of a separate complaint. In March 2019 our investigator asked NRAM to 
respond directly to Mr and Mrs N about  that complaint, and I simply mention it for 
completeness.
Mr and Mrs N complained  to NRAM, saying their arrears balance would have been lower 
had the Loyalty Discount been  correctly applied. They also said they wanted the mortgage 
account fully reviewed to check  for any further mistakes. NRAM apologised for the delay in 
applying the Loyalty Discount and offered £100 compensation. It said the account  was now 
correct.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he felt NRAM had done enough to put things 
right. Mr and Mrs N didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ours is an informal  dispute resolution  
service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although  
Ive read and considered the whole  file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I 
dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because  I 
dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
In April 2018 NRAM contacted Mr and Mrs N to say it realised it had made a mistake 
because it had failed  to apply the Loyalty Discount when it should have done. This meant it 
had charged interest at a higher rate, and so Mr and Mrs N had been  asked for higher 
payments each month. As compensation for this it reworked the account as if the Loyalty 
Discount had been correctly applied. This led to an interest adjustment being made, and the 
balance being  reduced. Had any fees been charged  that shouldnt  have  been  then these  
would have been reversed.
Ref: DRN21993852Mr and Mrs N say they shouldnt have had to make  a monthly payment in the month the 
account was reworked, as the balance was reduced  by more than their monthly  payment 
due. Unfortunately it doesnt  work  that way. The account was reworked to put it in the 
position it would have been  in if the Loyalty Discount  had been applied  correctly. If NRAM 
then allowed Mr and Mrs N to miss a payment that month then the account wouldnt be in 
the position it should have  been  in, as it would then be an extra month  in arrears due to that 
missed payment.
Mr and Mrs N need to think  of it as an account rebalancing, rather  than a payment being 
made to their account by NRAM. If NRAM hadnt  made the mistake then Mr and Mrs N 
would have had to make  their payment  as normal, so it would be entirely inappropriate for 
me to say they should profit from that mistake  by then being  allowed to miss a mortgage  
payment that was always fairly due. I understand  they would have liked a months grace to 
help with other unexpected costs theyd incurred, but unfortunately that couldnt happen.
We dont provide an auditing service  or carry out a forensic analysis of mortgage  records. Of 
course, its open to Mr and Mrs N to instruct an independent qualified professional to audit 
their account. But that would  have  to be at their expense   though if errors were found to 
their detriment, they could  complain  about that and their costs in discovering the errors could 
be taken into account in putting matters  right.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense I consider  NRAM made a fair offer in its final 
response letter. I leave  it to Mr and Mrs N to decide if now  on reflection  they want  to 
contact NRAM directly  to accept that offer.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under  the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to accept or reject 
my decision  before 18 November 2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2199385