K821x#15complaint
Mr U complains about end of contract  charges  when  he terminated his agreement with 
FirstRand bank Limited (trading as Motonovo).
background
In December 2015 Mr U was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase  agreement 
with Motonovo.  At the point of supply the car was approximately  4 years old and had 
covered 46,800 miles. The agreement was due to run for 36 months  and was therefore  due 
to end in December 2018.
At the end of the agreement Mr U decided to return the car. The car was collected  and 
inspected. Following this, Mr U received an invoice for damage charges and missing  items.
Mr U disputes the charges. Hes unhappy  that hes been charged for a missing log book 
which he says he returned. Hes also unhappy  about charges for damage to the leather  seat 
which he says was present when the car was supplied to him.
In its final response Motonovo said it had reviewed the charges and agreed to reduce them 
to £1,192.08 from £1,421.35. It said the charges were made up of a missing  log book (£235), 
a dent in the front bumper  (£145),  three  damaged alloys (£180)  and a torn leather seat 
(£632.08).
Mr U wasnt happy with the response so he complained to this service.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He said the bumper damage was acceptable 
fair wear and tear on a car of this age and mileage. He was also satisfied that Mr U had 
returned the log book. The investigator recommended that the charges were  reduced to 
£812.08.
Motonovo accepted the investigators view. Mr U didnt agree. He continued to dispute the 
charges for the leather seat.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the hire purchase  agreement say that Mr U must return  the car 
in good condition and that any damage  which exceeds fair wear  and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies  damage to the bumper, the alloys and the 
leather seat. It also says the log book is missing.
Ref: DRN24096782The damage to the alloy wheels consists of significant scuffs  and marks as well as corrosion.  
Im satisfied that this exceeds fair wear and tear in accordance with the relevant guidelines 
and that the charges are fair.
The damage to the front bumper comprises scratches and a small dent. Taking  into account 
the age and mileage of the car I think this damage is acceptable fair wear and tear. So I 
dont think Motonovo  has acted fairly  in charging for this damage.  
The damage to the front seat shows that the leather is torn and damaged  in several  places. I 
think this goes beyond  fair wear  and tear. Mr U has said that the damage was present when 
he was supplied with the car. However,  theres no evidence from the dealer to suggest that 
the car had damage of this sort at the point of supply. In addition, I find it unlikely that Mr U 
would have agreed to accept the car with such extensive damage.  
Based on the available evidence theres nothing to persuade me that the damage to the 
leather seat was present  at the point of supply.  This leads me to conclude  that Mr U is 
responsible for the damage and is therefore liable for the charges.
In relation to the logbook, Mr U has provided  persuasive evidence that he returned this. It 
seems likely that the company who inspected the car mislaid it. So I dont think its fair to 
charge Mr U for a missing V5.
Taking everything into account  Im partially upholding this complaint. I dont  think  the 
damage to the bumper  exceeds fair wear and tear and Im satisfied Mr U returned the 
logbook.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  the complaint.
FirstRand Bank Limited must remove the charges for the bumper and the logbook, reducing  
the charges for which Mr U is liable to £812.08.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2409678