K820x#14complaint
Ms O has complained that she received  conflicting  advice from two separate  advisers at 
London and Country Mortgages  Limited  (L&C).
background
The background to this complaint is set out in detail  in a letter dated 9 September  2019 sent 
by the investigator  to both Ms O and L&C.  In order to preserve Ms Os anonymity, I will not 
repeat all the details  here, but will instead  provide a brief summary.
In July 2018 Ms Os property was on the market  for sale.  She was at that time on Standard 
Variable Rate (SVR) with her current mortgage lender but wanted to remortgage  onto a 
lower rate. She spoke to an adviser at L&C who told her that she would not be able to 
remortgage if she was in the process of selling  the property.
In December 2018 Ms O called L&C again and spoke  to a different adviser. Ms O said that 
the adviser told her to take her house off the market while she applied  for a new mortgage, 
and she did so, and then put it back on the market.
L&C says that in December 2018 Ms O made no reference to her house being on the market 
but only said she intended to sell it at some point  in the future. L&C arranged a new 
mortgage for Ms O, a two-year tracker product. 
Ms O complained to L&C, saying  that she paid six months on SVR when she should  have 
been advised in July 2018 to take out a new mortgage. L&C didnt uphold the complaint so it 
was brought to us. An investigator  looked  at the complaint but didnt  think  it should be 
upheld. Ms O disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Shes put 
forward no further arguments or evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read everything provided by both 
parties and I confirm Ive listened to all the call recordings provided by both Ms O and L&C. 
Ms O's requirements were that she wanted a mortgage that had no fees, including  no early  
repayment charge  (ERC).  But lenders  consider the long term profitability of the mortgage. 
With a fee-free mortgage, they have to pay solicitors to do the legal work for the remortgage,  
a surveyor to value  the property as well as all processing cost. Then if the borrower redeems  
the mortgage a few months later the lender may actually make a loss on the transaction. 
Thats why, when offering products to the market, lenders will usually offer fee-free 
mortgages if there is an ERC, with more generous lending terms (such  as no ERC)  being 
subject to an application fee.   
The first call with L&C took place the on 31 July 2018, when Ms O told L&C she was looking 
to sell her property as quickly as possible.  It was explained to Ms O that if that was the case, 
she would  pay more  in lender fees attached to variable rates which  had no early repayment 
charge than she would if she was to stay on her existing SVR whilst she sold the property.  
Ref: DRN29997682Ms O was also advised that an application for a mortgage on a property that was up for sale 
would fall outside lending criteria for many  lenders, as it might be considered short-term 
lending. The adviser explained that if Ms O changed her mind about  selling and decided  to 
take her property off the market, then she could  give him another call and discuss a new 
mortgage. Im satisfied that this advice was correct,  given  Ms Os circumstances as she 
explained them to L&C on 31 July 2018.
The next call with L&C was on 19 December 2018.  Ms O says that during this call she was 
advised to take the property off the market. Ive listened to the call and at no point does the 
adviser say this. Ms O was looking for a variable rate mortgage with no ERCs and no fees, 
as she wanted  the option to move in the future. No mention was made  by Ms O at all of the 
property being  on the market.
Based on what Ms O told L&C about her circumstances  on 19 December 2018 (which  was 
different from what shed said a few months  earlier), it was possible to arrange a new 
mortgage for Ms O. I note from an online property portal that the property was re-listed for 
sale on 11 January  2019.  
Im satisfied that it was appropriate in December 2018  when the property was not on the 
market  for L&C to arrange a new mortgage product for Ms O. Im also satisfied that this is 
not inconsistent  with, nor contradictory to, the advice given in July 2018.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied L&C has done nothing wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2999768