K822xComplaint
Mr O complained to Pannells Financial  Planning  Ltd about the advice he received  to switch 
his existing Phoenix pension plan to one with Fidelity. Mr O said the new plan was 
unsuitable as he was unable to conduct his own trades and this caused him to miss out on 
investment opportunities. It was said it was also unsuitable as his primary residence  was 
outside of the UK.
Background 
Mr O set up his pension  plan in September 2008.  This plan was said to have  been  selected 
as the provider accepted  non-UK resident applications. Mr O began drawing benefits  from 
the plan in 2009 and held it until he received further advice from Pannells in 2016.  During  
that time he made  some of his own changes to the underlying investments.
In late 2016, Mr O signed a new advice agreement  letter with Pannells to receive  ongoing 
advice. In 2017 he sought their advice about his pension.  He explained which  funds he 
thought he should change  and how and asked for feedback.
The adviser recommended a portfolio  of funds to match  Mr Os balanced attitude to risk and 
comments were  made about the funds suggested by Mr O. The adviser  thought these funds 
represented too high a risk for Mr O. The adviser  recommended Mr O switch his plan 
provider to Fidelity from Phoenix.
Later in the month, Pannells  contacted  Fidelity.  Pannells confirmed Mr O split his time 
between the UK and Spain, but was UK domiciled and paid UK tax only.
The Fidelity  application  was returned  to Pannells by Mr O, having been signed  in October 
2017. The form had been pre-populated  with the recommended portfolio. Mr O emailed 
Pannells the same day; he told them:
I know youll have a dickie fit when  you see this but below is what  Im seriously looking at to 
invest in.
And he listed his personal investment selection.
The transfer concluded and funds went on to be invested. In late January 2018, Mr O 
emailed the adviser  with an instruction  to carry out further investment changes. Fidelity 
wouldnt accept Mr Os investment requests directly. Pannells told Mr O:
..the service  that Pannells provides to our clients is as an Adviser,  [in other words to].. 
review your requirements and then make recommendations to align with your objectives. 
This typically involves rebalancing.. in line with your risk profile Fidelity are only able to 
provide a trading facility to you, by transferring you to a different division within  their 
company known as Direct  to Consumer. This would  sever the ties with Pannells  as your 
adviser and although we may be able to obtain information (values etc), we would  not be 
able to make  any trades or complete applications on your behalf Please be advised that I 
have not actioned the trades in your email.
Mr Os plan was switched  to Fidelitys direct service.  Mr O emailed Pannells stating the fund 
changes he would have  made prior to this, had he been able to instruct  the pension  provider 
at the time.
Ref: DRN20834272Mr O complained the advice in 2017  didnt take into account his need  to make his own 
investment decisions.  After further  review he identified that he was ineligible for a Fidelity  
account as he was a non-UK resident.
An adjudicator at this service  looked  at Mr Os complaint and recommended it should be 
upheld. He said Mr O had demonstrated  his investment knowledge and intention to 
personally select investments; particularly  when returning the application  form. This gave  a 
detailed breakdown. So he concluded it was clear enough Mr O wanted to make at least  
some of his own investment decisions. Based on this, he thought Pannells should  have  re-
assessed their recommendation.
In relation to Mr O being a non-UK resident, he said Pannells queries to Fidelity could have 
been clearer and had they been  so, the issue of Mr Os residency would have been 
highlighted before the new plan was arranged.
On balance, the adjudicator thought Mr O should  have  retained his existing pension plan. 
But thought  if that had been the case,  Mr O would have wanted to make changes to the 
existing holdings; he concluded it wasnt possible to know how Mr O would have invested.
So he recommended  using an index to represent  Mr Os investment returns and put him in 
the position he ought to be in. He also thought a payment ought to be made for the upset 
caused and recommended  a sum of £300. The adjudicator set out what  he thought ought to 
be done to switch Mr O to a new plan and how this ought to be paid for and addressed.
Pannells said they disagreed with the adjudicators  conclusion, and denied  the complaint, 
but ultimately indicated  they would comply and accept  the recommendation.
Mr O declined the offer. He didnt think it was right to be asked to accept a method of 
redress without knowing the sums  involved.  He also said he knew  how he would have 
invested and this had been  evidenced  in his emails to Pannells whilst his account was being  
moved to the direct  service. He thought redress ought to be based on these selections; 
albeit he also indicated  that as he wasnt experienced in the use of the index he wasnt 
necessarily suggesting  it was inappropriate.
Mr O also thought he should be reimbursed for the original advice fee and offered 
compensation for the cost of moving  his pension to a provider which  accepts non-UK 
resident applicants. He didnt  think the adjudicators recommendation on this was sufficient.
He didnt want Pannells to arrange  an alternative  provider and he didnt think  £600 was 
enough for him to get advice on this; he expected the cost to be closer to £12,000. Mr O 
stressed he thought  all redress ought to be tax neutral for him. He also highlighted that his 
previous transfer  of £353,363.03, to Fidelity on 27 October  2017  had generated commission 
of £1,766.80 for Pannells. Mr O accepted that had he remained with his previous provider he 
would have altered his investments.
The adjudicator didnt change his view.  He set out his reasoning in respect of the use of an 
index and how the calculation would take account  and include the initial costs. The 
adjudicator explained that loss calculations arent usually  completed prior to acceptance and 
thats something we dont  usually ask a business to do. Pannells had said that the exercise 
wouldnt be done in advance of acceptance here.
Ref: DRN20834273The adjudicator didnt accept that if Mr O had remained with his original provider, he would 
have carried out the trades he said he would have arranged with Fidelity. The adjudicator  
offered to ask Pannells whether they would facilitate moving  Mr Os plan back  to Phoenix at 
no cost.
Mr O said that he wasnt  refusing the recommendation so much as facing problems 
understanding it. Mr O understood the adjudicators proposed method of redress might be 
something the adjudicator frequently used, but he didnt. As such he felt he didnt have any 
real understanding about the sums involved in what the adjudicator  proposed. Mr O told the 
adjudicator that as far as he understood,  the trades hed wanted to make via the Fidelity plan 
were equally  available  in the previous (Phoenix) platform. So he thought it was right to 
accept that was how he would have traded.
Pannell said that in the interests  of resolving this case they were prepared  to facilitate 
moving Mr O's pension back into the Phoenix arrangement should this still be available  to 
him. They said this was on the basis  that they would waive any advice fee. But they would 
not be responsible  for any other  costs or fees associated with the transfer, should there be 
any transfer fees or initial fees; nor would  they advise Mr O on fund choice.
Pannells said they continued  to be willing to comply with the recommendation  made the 
adjudicator in his view.  But that they would not have offered  this, if hed recommended  a 
calculation on the basis proposed by Mr O. Primarily  they felt this would be unjust. Mr O 
hadnt sufficiently  explained to them he wanted  to self-trade.
Pannells went on to tell us that based  on their research none of the trades made or 
proposed by Mr O to be made through the Fidelity  plan could  have been  made  through his 
previous Phoenix  proposition. So overall none  of the proposed  trades could have been 
through Phoenix or Fidelity at the time Mr O said he was indicating  what he would have done 
had he been able to instruct the provider directly.
Pannells continued to think their advice had been  appropriate and they said why they 
thought this was. Pannells also thought Mr Os proposed method of calculating  redress is 
based on hindsight  and would be manifestly unjust.
The adjudicator explained to Mr O that he didnt know  a likely redress  figure.  He set out that 
he awaited Mr Os confirmation  that the trades  could  have been made through  the Phoenix 
platform. The adjudicator highlighted that when Mr O emailed the adviser  about  his Phoenix 
funds, hed listed different  funds  to those made once he received the recommendation to 
move to Fidelity.
The adjudicator told Mr O that Pannells had offered to move him back  to Phoenix with no 
adviser fee. He also asked Mr O to tell us whether Fidelity had asked Mr O to move as they 
couldnt look after his pension since he is a non-UK resident.
Mr O stressed  he wasnt familiar with the proposed method of redress  and as such couldnt 
use it to calculate  any figure to help him understand. He felt that the adjudicator wasnt 
taking account  of the trading requests hed sent to Pannells.
Mr O didnt think the location of his funds  was a matter for Pannells. He told the adjudicator  
that he considered  any conversations between Fidelity and himself concerning the 
management of his current funds to be confidential  and irrelevant to this matter.
Ref: DRN20834274Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 13 March 2020. In this I agreed in general 
terms with the adjudicator  and what had been  said about the merits of the case. But I made 
an adjustment to the original recommendation and set out what I thought ought to happen  
next.
Pannells response:
Pannells asked  me to confirm the index  I proposed  ought to be used. Having done this, they 
told us they disagreed with my provisional  decision and with any suggestion of liability;  
however in the interests of concluding matters they were willing to accept what  I said and 
would do what I proposed they ought  to do.
Mr Os response:
Mr O asked about the provision of calculations in a clear format.  We explained  a little more.
We were told Mr O had now appointed representation. Further submissions and supporting 
material were  provided. This included  statements  and historic correspondence; particularly 
further copies  of the emails containing the indications of trading Mr O said he would have 
done had he been able to in February  and March 2018.
Mr Os representatives asked me to adapt my proposed method  of redress. I hope  it will be 
understood it isnt practical for me to repeat all that is contained in their letter, but I have 
considered it with care. In summary Mr Os representatives dont agree with my proposed  
approach to loss. They  think accurate loss figures  can be calculated with reference  to the 
trades highlighted by Mr O at the time.
Mr Os representatives say it is irrelevant  whether  Mr Os original platform  (Phoenix) could 
have made  the trades Mr O wanted to make. They say it was for Pannells  to have monitored 
on an ongoing basis whether the Phoenix  platform remained appropriate for Mr O. Mr Os 
representatives suggest that if the platform didnt allow  Mr O to complete the trades he 
wished to then they ought to have identified and advised on a platform  that did. The same 
point is made in relation to Mr Os residency.
Mr Os representatives suggest  they think I have concluded that because  the new platform 
wasnt the right one for Mr O, he ought to be restored to Phoenix.  They  say this is wrong.
Mr Os representatives consider Mr O suffered a loss of chance  (as the trades werent 
possible with the new platform). They  ask me to use a percentage approach  to the 
hypothetical loss figure;  here proposing a 100% finding.
My proposal in respect  of further sums  is also disagreed. They  consider the sum proposed to 
enable Mr O to be advised is insufficient.  They think it would be usual for £12,000 to be an 
approximate figure, based  on the value of Mr Os portfolio; and submit  I ought to consider a 
sum of £7,000  appropriate. It has also been suggested a sum of £1,000 for Mr Os emotional  
distress is one that would  be a minimum starting  point.
Mr Os representatives repeat the submission made  by Mr O that they ought to be able to 
review the calculation before matters are concluded. They say theyve seen my comments  
on the methodology but feel there is scope for uncertainty.
Ref: DRN20834275Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  changed  my 
thinking from that set out in my provisional  decision.
I dont think the advice for Mr O to transfer to the Fidelity platform  was suitable. I think Mr O 
had sufficiently demonstrated his desire  and intention to make  his own investment choices.  
So I dont  think Pannells recommendation met the objectives as they ought  to have been 
understood prior to their recommendations being actioned.
In relation to Mr O being a non-UK resident, Pannells queries to Fidelity could have been 
clearer; had this been the case, the issue  of Mr Os residency would have been highlighted 
before the new plan was set up.
Its my intention  to put Mr O in as close as possible to the position he ought  to be in, had the 
unsuitable transfer not taken place. To achieve  this Pannells must undertake the loss 
calculation exercise  set out below.
This is the failure  I am looking to address.  It isnt for me to review  here whether Mr O ought 
to have transferred  to a different provider in 2017  and what might have then followed.
Mr O would like to have a definitive sum to consider but as I previously explained it is not 
unusual for a business to only complete a loss calculation exercise once a complainant has 
indicated acceptance  of a decision. Ive considered everything said with care, but I dont  
consider I need  depart  from this here. I think there is sufficient information to provide a 
general and sufficient understanding of how the calculation  will be undertaken and I consider 
it clear enough to be understood by Pannells.  Ive seen Mr O is now represented.
I think its right for the calculation to use the date and value  of Mr Os fund at the time of 
being transferred  out of Phoenix, but prior to the transfer. It appears to me this will enable all 
charges relating to transfer,  dis-investment  and advice and any exit penalties  to be taken 
into account.
The second  date to be applied is for Mr Os fund at the time it was transferred from the 
Fidelity SIPP  into the Fidelity SIPP direct investment platform. This value should be that 
applied once  the transfer was completed, again this is to ensure all charges are accounted 
for.
I think its right to use an index here to calculate  all investment returns  due to Mr O. Its 
accepted Mr O would have changed his holdings from those  in the Phoenix portfolio had he 
not transferred.  I agree with the adjudicator I dont think it is possible to know  how Mr O 
would have invested had he remained in the Phoenix plan. I understand Mr O says he sent 
his investment choices  from late 2017 until early 2018 to Pannells. But these were  the 
choices he wanted  to make when his funds were in the Fidelity platform. Based on what  Ive 
seen, the information tends to suggest  that in any event these selections would not have 
been available to Mr O had he been  investing  through the Phoenix plan at the time. The 
calculation will take account of all payments  in and withdrawals.
So I think the index  is an appropriate method to assess the position as fairly  as possible.
Ref: DRN20834276Here I have considered  the right index to use, and I also agree with the adjudicator on this. I 
havent seen anything that suggests  to me Mr O was a cautious  investor,  or that his primary 
interest was in sustaining  an income base, I accept he was motivated by hoping  to achieve 
capital gains.
Ive seen whats said on Mr Os behalf  about an alternative method of redress  which  I am 
asked to apply  here.  I accept there  are other  methods available,  but I think the method I 
previously set out continues to be fair and is reasonable in the circumstances of this matter. 
We are an informal  service and an alternative  to the courts. I think my approach to redress  is 
a fair approach.
I dont think the advice to transfer away from the Phoenix platform  to Fidelity,  and into a 
platform that failed  to enable Mr O to conduct his own trading was suitable  and its this 
failure that I am primarily looking to remedy in an appropriate way. So I dont accept redress 
should be based here on the intentions expressed  in the emails of trades Mr O said he 
wanted to make in early  2018. It wouldnt be right to conclude  suitable advice in 2017 would 
have led to a transfer and have identified a platform where the proposed trades from 2018 
would have all been possible; and if not, that an immediate review  and transfer to a different 
platform to enable the trades ought to have  followed  (or would have). I also dont accept, 
particularly taking into account the history, that had Mr O been able to complete the trades 
he said he wanted to do in early 2018,  these were necessarily the trades that would have 
happened.
Pension provider
There was an outstanding issue in relation to how the potential  need for a future provider 
ought to be addressed. The adjudicator considered potential re-instatement into Phoenix or 
a new provider. 
Mr O didnt want to provide any information  on his current  position and he has not. As Ive 
explained, that means the initial recommendation made by the adjudicator relating to 
Pannells arranging  for Mr O to be transferred back to Phoenix, which  Pannells agreed  to, 
becomes irrelevant. 
So I previously considered whether Pannells  needed to do anything further instead. In his 
view the adjudicator referred to Pannells paying a reasonable  sum in order for Mr O to take 
advice to identify  a suitable platform.  He considered a figure of £600 (plus  VAT) to be a fair 
amount for that purpose. 
Mr O told us £12,000 was likely  to be a better assessment. Initially  Mr O didnt provide 
anything to support  this contention. 
In my provisional decisions I explained  I accepted  the adjudicators  thinking and intended to 
conclude Pannells  ought to pay Mr O the sum of £600 (plus VAT) to enable Mr O to obtain 
this advice. I explained that it didnt  appear to me the work required is in relation to 
investment advice; it is simply to assist  in identifying a provider and on any transfer.
Ive seen what further has been  said, but I havent changed my thinking.  I think  the sum 
Pannells will need to pay here is fair taking account of all the circumstances; as well as the 
limited extent of work. In addition no information  has been provided on what  has happened 
and what may or may not be intended. 
Ref: DRN20834277Distress and inconvenience
Ive seen Im asked to increase the sum Pannells  will need  to pay Mr O. But I think £300 is 
the right amount in the circumstances. I dont doubt  Mr O has been  frustrated and 
inconvenienced as a consequence  of what has happened.  However  this service doesnt 
make such  awards to punish a business and our awards tend to be modest.  There is more 
information available on our website.
Fair compensation
In considering whats fair compensation  my aim is to put Mr O as close to the position  he 
would probably  now be in if he had not been given unsuitable advice. I dont think Mr O 
would have transferred  to the Fidelity platform had that been  the case.
I also tend to think Mr O would  have  invested differently. I dont think  it is possible to say 
precisely what he would have done. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr O's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What Pannells must do:
To compensate Mr O fairly:
Compare the performance of Mr Os investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Pannells will need to add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Pannells should pay this into Mr Os pension plan, to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance.
If Pannells are unable to pay the compensation into Mr O's pension plan, they should 
pay that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. So, the compensation  should be reduced  to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Os actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr O is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr O would 
have been able to take a tax-free  lump sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pannells also need to pay Mr O £600 (plus  VAT) to enable  him to seek  advice if he 
so chooses on an alternative platform.
Ref: DRN20834278In addition, Pannells will need to pay Mr O £300 for the upset and inconvenience  
caused
I intend the loss calculation  to take account of the advisers fee, which  I understand was paid 
for out of the sum on transfer, if I am wrong  about  this, Pannells will need to repay  the 
advisers fees together with simple  interest  at 8% a year, from the date the fees were paid to 
the date of settlement. If the above loss calculation shows that no compensation is payable, 
the difference between the actual  value and the fair value can be offset against the fees with 
interest.
Pannells will need to provide  the details of the calculation to Mr O in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pannells considers they are required by
HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct  income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr O how 
much has been taken off. They should also give Mr O a tax deduction  certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Mr O's 
SIPPtransferredFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
transfer out 
of Phoenixdate
transferred
from Fidelity
SIPP to
Fidelity
direct
service
(once
transferred)8% simple  per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum Mr O paid into the investment should be added  to the fair value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal,  income or 
other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from the fair value at the point it 
was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there are a large number of regular payments, to keep  calculations simpler, Ill accept if
Pannells total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr O wanted capital  growth and was willing  to accept  investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
Ref: DRN20834279with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr O's circumstances  and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that Pannells  pays  
the balance.
Determination and award: 
I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should be calculated as set out 
above. Pannells should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of 
£150,000 (including distress  and/or  inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on 
the balance as set out above.
Recommendation: 
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds  £150,000, I 
recommend that Pannells pays Mr O the balance plus any interest on the balance  as set out 
above.
Final decision
So for the reasons given, I uphold Mr Os complaint against Pannells Financial Planning Ltd. 
Pannells will need to complete  the loss calculation and pay sums arising from this and all 
others I have  set out to Mr O.
Under our rules,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 
27 May 2020.
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2083427