K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that, following a car accident,  although Acromas Insurance  Company 
Limited accepted  his insurance claim, they didnt address liability  as he thought they should, 
or provide a proper explanation of their decision.  And they undervalued his car when 
calculating the payout on repairs.
background
In May 2018, Mr B took out a car insurance policy with Acromas. In October, he was 
involved in a minor accident with another vehicle when pulling out. He provided a detailed 
account and said the other driver  was at fault.  Acromas disagreed and held him liable. Mr B 
says hes asked Acromas several times to explain their decision but he says they didnt do 
so. Mr B wants  Acromas to change their decision on liability and to ensure  his No Claims 
Discount (NCD) remains intact. He also said he shouldnt have to pay his excess.
Mr B said the damage caused to his car was cosmetic. So, Acromas sent an engineer to 
make an assessment. He concluded the car was a total loss and not worthwhile repairing. 
This was due to the age of the vehicle and because  his estimate of the cost of repair  
exceeded the cars market value. The engineers report  in mid-November put the pre-
accident value  of the car at around £1,300. And the engineer calculated the total cost of 
repair at £1,653.60. He explained that taking into account the value of the car, the most 
esure would pay for repairs was 60% of the value and that was £780.
Because of this an industry marker was applied to the cars file and Acromas wanted to 
have the car scrapped. Mr B was unhappy with this and refused. He says he told Acromas in 
November that he didnt want to wait for them to have his car repaired and would get on with 
it himself. He says Acromas told him they had no objection.  So, Mr B got his own quote from 
a specialist garage and went ahead. Repairs  were carried out in the third week  of November. 
The repairs  completed  by Mr Bs garage  cost £922.43.
Mr B complained but Acromas repeated that he was liable for the accident and sent out their 
final response in February 2019. They said theyd reviewed his statement and sketch  and 
decided he was liable based partly on his own admission. They explained that hed started 
pulling out of a parked position at the roadside when he was hit by another vehicle which 
had right of way. Acromas  also said that that it wasnt possible to prove  any negligence on 
the part of the other  driver. They also explained  again how the amount of damage  and cost 
of repair  to his car meant that they could consider it a 'total loss'.
But Acromas  said theyd  reimburse Mr B their maximum repair cost of £780,  less his excess 
of £500 and pay him the difference of £280. And they offered  Mr B £50 in compensation for 
failing to respond to his correspondence. Acromas also said that as Mr B had had his car 
repaired and not been written off, they wouldnt apply the industrys total loss marker to the 
vehicles file. But Mr B was also offered two different options about  removing  the marker 
which the engineer was obliged to record. Because Acromas said their decisions about 
liability and value were  fair and reasonable, they didnt uphold  Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B was unhappy at being considered responsible  for the accident, and at the settlement 
figure hed been  offered. So, he complained to us. Mr B said that because  of the cost of 
repairs, he is out of pocket by £642.43. He asked to be reimbursed the actual cost of his 
repairs (£922.43) less his excess (£500) which is £422.43 rather than the £280 Acromas 
agreed to pay out. He also thought  hed lost his NCD, although Ive been able to confirm this 
Ref: DRN23227362isnt the case  because his NCD was protected.  But the matter has caused  him a great deal 
of trouble and inconvenience. Hes asked  for compensation of £1,000 to cover  his payment 
of the £500 excess and outstanding repair costs, with the balance as compensation.
In January 2020, our investigator  sent out her view. She said Acromas had acted fairly in 
considering the issue  of Mr Bs liability. And they were correct  to accept an expert's opinion  
on the value of the car after the accident. She also noted Acromas  had paid Mr B £50 in 
compensation for not replying to one of his letters.  So, in all the circumstances, she thought 
what Acromas  had done was reasonable.
Mr B didnt agree. He said Acromas still hadnt  properly considered his side of the story. And 
even though hed asked  them many  times,  they still hadnt explained their position.  He also 
said the assessors valuation of his car was arbitrary and wrong. But even if it wasnt,  
Acromas shouldve paid out what hed spent  on repairs  rather  than only a proportion.
In April 2020, our investigator  wrote  to Mr B again to ensure  hed fully understood Acromas 
position on liability and valuation and to give him a chance to comment.  She continued that 
because hed chosen to have the car repaired, Acromas hadnt  applied the total loss marker. 
Instead they reimbursed  their maximum cost of repair,  which in this case was £780.00.  And 
as his excess was £500.00, this meant a payment of £280.00 was due. Mr B didnt respond.
So, now the case has come to me for a decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Liability
Consumers are often unhappy when theyre  held responsible, or liable, for an accident 
because they dont think they were  at fault.  Our role generally isnt to decide who was at fault 
but to consider whether  the insurer handled  the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. 
So, Ive looked  at Mr Bs policy documents. And I see that under Making a claim, it states: 
(b) The Insurer will be entitled to take over and conduct at the Insurers  expense  in Your 
name or in the name of any other  person insured by this Insurance Document:
(i)the negotiation defence or settlement  of any claim;
So, Im satisfied this means  that Acromas are entitled to agree liability in respect of Mr Bs 
claim as they see fit.
And Ive seen that Mr B maintains that, despite  repeated requests, Acromas  hadnt 
explained why they thought he was responsible for the accident. But Ive looked at their final 
response letter and I think they did. They did again, in another  letter  in March  where 
Acromas pointed out that Mr B had acknowledged that hed become aware of another  
vehicle coming up behind him on the right, while checking the road prior to moving out. He 
said the vehicle  collided  with his own car as he slowly emerged. And as the other  vehicle 
was proceeding  correctly,  it had right of way. I also see from Acromas case  file that they 
also explained their position again, on the phone, to Mr B in late March.
Ref: DRN23227363So, I think Acromas took into account all the available  evidence,  including  Mr Bs detailed 
account and sketch, as well as his subsequent  detailed letters.  While Ive considered  Mr B 
saying he wasnt responsible for the accident,  that the other driver had apologised or 
admitted fault,  and that hes an honest  witness with a long history of trouble-free driving,  
these points arent conclusive. And, I dont think Mr B providing any further or better 
evidence would have  achieved a different outcome. So, I think  that in all the circumstances, 
Acromas was entitled to follow the process  they did. Their actions were timely, and their 
decision was fair and reasonable.
Acromas also had to consider the likely outcome if Mr Bs accident had gone to court.  
Because courts generally hold drivers  pulling out to be at fault as they are meant to keep  on 
looking out during the course  of their manoeuvre. (Although I appreciate  Mr B himself  may 
feel he couldnt have  done more.) And even  if liability had been ascribed 50/50 between  the 
parties, this would still count as a fault claim for Mr B.
But if Mr B continues to feel strongly,  he can always try to recover his excess  himself  
through the courts against the third party insurer, because  of the without prejudice payment 
made by Acromas.  And if hes successful,  Id expect Acromas to mark the incident  as non-
fault. But I think its unlikely hed get support from his legal expenses cover, as Acromas,  
who provide this cover, are unlikely to consider Mr B had a reasonable prospect of success.
Valuation
Most motor insurance policies only require the insurer to compensate  the policyholder for the 
market value of the vehicle immediately  before  the loss and this is defined in the policies. 
Yet consumers often  think their vehicle was worth more than what theyre  offered. Because  
of what theyve recently paid for it or seen similar vehicles advertised  at a particular price. Or 
the consumer  says the insurer  asked  them the vehicle's value  when they took out the policy.
Looking again  at Mr Bs policy,  under What is covered, it states The Insurer  will pay for 
loss of or damage  to the Insured Car The maximum amount payable  will be the Market 
Value of the Insured Car.
We consider the market  value as the cost of replacement with a similar vehicle with same 
mileage in the retail  market, because what a car is worth really  refers to its likely selling 
price. So, thats what  I think would be fair and reasonable for Acromas  to pay out, assuming 
that everything else has been  considered  properly.
In a very small number  of cases, we see issues about an agreed-value policy. These  
require the insurer  to pay a previously-agreed  amount, often  based  on bespoke  valuations. 
And the fact that an insurer's proposal form asks a customer to state  the vehicle's value 
doesn't, in itself, mean its an agreed-value policy. And insurers often request this 
information unnecessarily,  which can cause confusion,  as is the case here. 
Acromas has confirmed  Mr Bs policy was one of market value. This means any settlement 
offered would normally be based  on his cars  current market value, as Ive explained above. 
Rather than the value  Mr B had given them. And if repairs to a car are estimated at around 
60-70% of its value, insurers will tend to write  the car off as its considered uneconomical to 
repair. This is because the cost of paying for repairs is greater  than the amount they would 
pay if they write the car off and sell the damaged vehicle as salvage.  And we think this is a 
reasonable.
Ref: DRN23227364So, Acromas  explained  to Mr B that theyd cover up to 60% of repair  costs  of his cars  
market value and offered  to settle  his claim based on the maximum repair costs of £780  less 
the policy excess of £500, which was £280.  But Mr B pointed out that as hed got his car 
repaired from a specialist  garage at significantly less than Acromas  estimate  he said he had 
little confidence  in the engineers figures.  And he asked again to be reimbursed the actual 
cost of his repairs  (£922.43) less his excess which is £422.43 rather  than the £280 offered. 
Mr B has provided an invoice and evidence of payment for £922.43. 
Ive seen that the engineer relied on commercial guides in assessing the value  of Mr Bs car. 
And Acromas have confirmed the approach they take in arriving at their valuations  is to use 
a combination of physical  inspection by a qualified engineer  and reference  to the 
professional guides available online.  And when  an engineer inspected  Mr Bs car, they also 
normally have access to a digital insurance industry  tool which calculates the costs of repair.
So, as this is a standard  industry approach, I cant take issue  with Acromas here. And, Im 
also aware, Mr B didnt have a professional  valuation when he took out the policy.  So, this all 
seems pretty  clear  on the face of it. But Im not sure its that simple. Not least because Mr B 
managed to get his car repaired  for a lot less than the professional estimate.
Not unreasonably, Mr B didnt want to wait for Acromas final decision  (their letter  wasnt sent 
until February) as his car might have  been  left unrepaired for several months. So, he took his 
car to a specialist dealer. He says he emailed Acromas about  this without receiving a 
response. And when he told Acromas by phone, he says they told him they had no objection 
to him going  ahead. And Ive seen nothing on file to contradict this. So, the amount of repair 
costs was settled by the end of November. And as the amount it cost was £731.17 less than 
the estimate provided  by Acromas engineer, Mr B actually ended up having his repairs  done 
at only 55% of the figure Acromas  own expert  had estimated.
And I think the difficulties  started when Acromas engineers repair estimate wasnt carried  
out properly. Ive looked at the guides  to see that the engineers valuation of Mr Bs car was 
based on the correct make, model and mileage, and Im satisfied it was. But I dont  think he 
properly worked out the cost the repairs and made  a significant over-estimate with these. 
This is because Ive not seen any real evidence he used the above-mentioned digital tool to 
help him do this or asked a repairer to properly estimate the costs manually. 
That said,  allowing  for a salvage value of £351,  which Ive picked up from AXAs  file, and 
repairs at £922  as arranged by Mr B, the car probably would have been a write off if the 
engineer had done a thorough  and proper estimate. And AXAs  offer should have been 
based on the pre-accident market value  of Mr Bs car less the policy  excess. And if Mr B had 
wanted to keep the car, AXA would have been entitled to deduct the salvage value. But, as 
Ive said, this didnt  happen due to AXAs poor handling and Mr B simply ended up paying to 
have his car repaired.
So, under all the circumstances, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Acromas to pay 
Mr B the actual cost of his repairs (£922.43) less his excess (£500) of £422.43. I also think  it 
would be fair and reasonable for Acromas to pay Mr B 8% interest on the £422.43 between 
the date he paid for his repairs in November and the date Acromas settle with him. (Unless 
Mr B has already been paid the £280,  in which case he should  only receive interest on the 
outstanding £142.43.)
I also note that if Acromas had treated Mr Bs car as a total loss it would have had a marker 
on it, so the fact that it now hasnt is a positive outcome  for Mr B.
Ref: DRN23227365Distress and inconvenience
I also think Mr B is due something for distress and inconvenience. Acromas engineer 
produce an incorrect estimate, which caused  misunderstanding and delay. And Acromas 
didnt explain to Mr B that he still had his NCD, or how theyd calculated  their estimate, until 
quite late in the day, which also caused  misunderstanding. So, I think they could have  
handled this better. And, Im going to award £100 for this in addition  to the £50 already  
offered.
the response to my provisional  decision
Acromas responded  saying they accepted my decision.
Mr B responded raising a number  of points in some  detail.  He commented on the 
circumstances of the accident  and the decision on liability with which he disagreed. He also 
commented on Acromas valuation of his car. He also said he thought Acromas had chosen 
to ignore the detailed accounts hed provided them. And, he said he was prepared  to settle 
for the further  £100 in compensation  which I awarded.
And now the case has been passed  back to me to for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
In terms of Mr Bs comments on the circumstances  of the accident  and the decision on 
liability, these covered ground  which  hed already addressed. And Im satisfied that these 
points have already  been  explained in some  detail both by Acromas and myself in my 
provisional decision. As I said in my provisional  decision, our role generally isnt to decide 
liability, and decisions on who was responsible for an accident are best dealt  with by a court  
of law. But I remain satisfied that Acromas decision  on liability was reasonable. So, I wont 
be reconsidering the issue of liability.
Mr B also commented on Acromas valuation of his car but this was also comment I had 
considered and addressed in my provisional  decision. 
Mr B also said he thought Acromas had chosen  to ignore the detailed accounts hed 
provided them. But, having reviewed the file, I think Acromas did take into account all the 
information Mr B sent them  they simply disagreed.
In summary,  Ive seen  nothing that gives me any reason to depart from the findings  Ive 
already reached  in this case. So, my decision remains the same.
my final decision
For the above reasons, my final decision is that I uphold  Mr Bs complaint. And I direct 
Acromas Insurance  Company Limited  to:
Ref: DRN23227366pay Mr B the difference between the actual cost of his repairs,  less his excess, 
(£422.43), less the £280 which I now understand Acromas has already paid;
pay Mr B 8% interest  on whatever sum it pays from the date Mr B paid his repair bill 
to the date of actual  payment to him; and
pay a further £100  in compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 October  2020
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2322736