K822xcomplaint
Mr T acquired a car in October  2016,  by means  of a 36 month hire purchase agreement  with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  (BMWFS). This agreement  requires  him to make 
regular monthly payments, and a large  (balloon) final payment. He complains that, when he 
made an additional payment in July 2017 which was intended to reduce his final payment, 
this payment was not properly applied to his account.
background 
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 13 November 2018  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained why I disagree with our investigators view 
that the complaint should not be upheld. I think it should be partly upheld.
Mr T agreed  with my provisional decision.  BMWFS did not respond.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of other arguments or evidence to the contrary,  I continue  to think  that the 
conclusion reached  in my revised provisional decision is correct.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In 
full and final settlement  of it, I order BMW  Financial  Services  (GB) Limited to pay a further 
£343 to Mr T.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23274982COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
13 November 2018
complaint
Mr T acquired a car in October 2016, by means of a 36 month  hire purchase agreement  with BMW  
Financial Services  (GB) Limited (BMWFS). This agreement requires him to make regular monthly  
payments, and a large (balloon) final payment. He complains that, when  he made an additional  
payment in July 2017 which was intended to reduce his final payment, this payment was not properly 
applied to his account.
background
Mr T said that his reasons  for making the additional payment were to reduce the size of his balloon 
payment, and also to reduce  the balance from July 2017  onwards in his agreement  account. He 
would expect this reduction in turn to reduce the interest  component of the monthly payments he was 
required to make.
BMWFS initially told Mr T that this additional payment could be used to reduce his regular monthly  
payments, but could  not be used to reduce his balloon  payment. It then made  several errors in the 
management of his account   one of which  was to use the direct debit instructions to Mr Ts bank,  
linked to his agreement, to attempt  to obtain a payment of over £15,500.  
Mr T complained to BMWFS. It acknowledged that mistakes had been made, and said:
It would  use Mr Ts additional payment to reduce his balloon payment
It would  write  to Mr Ts bank to explain and apologise for its error
It would  ensure that its errors had not adversely affected Mr Ts credit file
In compensation, it would cover Mr Ts July and August 2017 payments, and make a separate 
goodwill payment of £1,000 into his agreement account
Mr T told us that BMWFS  had calculated  in December  2017 the interest rebate, arising from his July 
2017 additional payment,  as just under £600.  But he thought this calculation  was incorrect  he 
believed the rebate should be a little over £700. 
Mr T also told us he understood  that BMWFS were unable to backdate the rebate  and so one part 
of it (relating to the period from July to December  2017) had been applied to his account in December 
2017, while the other part (relating to remaining period of his agreement) had been used  to reduce his 
final balance. He was content with the rebate being applied in this way to his account  but he 
believed the way in which BMWFS had split the total rebate into these  two parts was incorrect.
Mr T accepted  BMWFSs  response  to his complaint in all respects, except  in relation to the interest 
rebate. He referred this aspect  of his complaint to us, saying:
If it could  be explained  to him why his rebate  calculations were  incorrect, he would  then be 
content
Alternatively, he would be prepared  to return all loaned funds  to BMWFS,  and for his 
agreement to be cancelled from its beginning
Our investigator asked  BMWFS to explain its rebate calculation. It confirmed  that the relevant 
regulations were followed when  the rebate was calculated, but it was not able to provide further 
details.
Our investigator did not think the complaint should  be upheld.  Although she was unable to confirm 
which rebate  calculation  was correct,  she felt the compensation Mr T had already received from 
BMWFS would account for the shortfall between the two rebate calculations.
Mr T disagreed with our investigator. And so this complaint  was referred for review by an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN23274983my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence  is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as 
some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words,  what I 
consider most  likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence and wider  circumstances.
Mr B implicitly accepts that his rebate calculations  may be incorrect  although, if they are, he wants  
to know  why? I sympathise with him, and I regret that BMWFS has not answered  his question. But I 
have to acknowledge that evidence about these calculations is incomplete  and contradictory, and to 
proceed accordingly.
I need to decide whether  it is more  likely than not that BMWFSs or Mr Ts calculations are correct. In 
the circumstances, and on balance, I am unable  to find in Mr Ts favour.
But I also have to consider  whether the rebate has been appropriately applied,  given the mistakes 
already admitted by BMWFS in its management of Mr Ts account. 
BMWFS has provided  documentary evidence  to us, including a partial  statement of Mr Ts agreement  
account. From  this evidence, we are able to identify where the part rebate relating  to 
July to December 2017 had been applied. 
But this evidence does  not show, and BMWFS  has been  unable  to confirm,  where the other part 
rebate (which Mr T understood to be £343) had been applied. In the circumstances, and on balance,  I 
am unable  to find that the other part rebate has been paid to Mr T.
On that basis,  I think a suitable resolution to this complaint would be for BMWFS  to make a further 
settlement payment of £343  to Mr T.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from Mr 
T or BMW Financial Services  (GB) Limited (BMWFS) by 13 December 2018,  my provisional decision  
is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
My provisional  settlement  recommendation is that BMWFS should  pay a further £343 to Mr T.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2327498