K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr and Mrs L say HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold them  PPI. Due to the passage  of time, 
HSBC is unable to tell if the PPI was set up in joint names  or whether is covered only Mr L.
background
The policy was taken  out during a branch meeting in which HSBC undertook a personal 
financial planning review.  It was only Mr L at the meeting as Mrs L was unable to attend. 
However, Mr L provided details for both him and his wife. Although  Mrs L has told us that 
she wasnt working at the time of the sale, the available paperwork from 1998 shows  that 
she was working as a florist. Other than that, the background and circumstances leading  up 
to this complaint,  which includes  Mr Ls circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the 
PPI policy  benefits,  limitations and exclusions  of cover, arent  disputed. So I havent 
repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided HSBC should  have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that HSBCs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness  caused is fair in the circumstances.  Ive summarised  my 
reasons for each  of these conclusions below.  
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think HSBC made it clear that Mr and Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because the financial planning  review  shows that the 
Ref: DRN22046432business discussed a number of different insurance  options with Mr L, some of which  Mr 
and Mrs L decided not to take up. Overall  Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs L were clear  that 
they were being  given  a recommendation to buy PPI, which  they could have declined if 
they had wanted to.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time,  shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  For example Mr and Mrs L 
were eligible for the cover  and although  they had some existing means, they still seem to 
have had a need  for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Ls employment or occupation  which would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. Although Mr L says he had some medical conditions 
some time before the policy was taken out, I dont  think it was wrong  for HSBC  to have 
recommended it. I say this because  Mr L has told us he had his appendix out at the age 
of ten and that he had a hernia operation in 1988. But he hasnt said that these surgeries 
didnt resolve the problems  such  that he was still suffering  from them at the time of the 
sale. So I doubt Mr L would have thought that these issues might be a reason hed need 
to make a claim on the policy. There were  also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health and/or back problems.
Mr and Mrs L say that he turned 65 and she turned 60 during the term of the policy  and 
therefore they became ineligible for the cover. However, the policy provided cover  up to 
the age of 65 for both of them. And it was cancelled in February 2012, at the point when 
Mr L turned 65.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But Ive found  that they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover.  The cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs L as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably  thought they were buying 
from the information they were  given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs L would have  declined the cover had HSBC  done anything  more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs L would have still taken out PPI. I think  the policy  could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  has raised  a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant HSBC should have disclosed the poor value  
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
Ref: DRN22046433I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ls particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided HSBC  should have disclosed the commission  it received and 
that HSBCs offer to refund some  of the cost of PPI to compensate  for the unfairness caused  
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
HSBC didnt tell Mr and Mrs L about  the high levels of commission  and profit share paid in 
this case. So taking into account:  
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
HSBC and Mr and Mrs L was unfair  under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because HSBC didnt  tell them about the high levels of commission  and profit  share in 
this case.  
I dont think HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr and Mrs L because it 
failed to disclose  the high commission  and profit  share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  has made a number of representations about  this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin  judgment and sections  140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN22046434In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs L should  get back all the money  they paid for the 
policy because:  HSBC failed to tell Mr and Mrs L about the high commission  and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions  and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should  find that Mr and Mrs L wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  had they known about  the level of commission and they should  receive  a 
refund of all the premiums  they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order  a return of all the premiums  paid or conclude that a 
consumer would  not have purchased the policy had the commission  been  disclosed; 
and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact  of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs L in order to remedy  the unfairness caused  by HSBC not disclosing the high 
level of commission to them before they purchased  the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mr and Mrs Ls representative  suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for HSBCs failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for HSBC to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some  of the money Mr and Mrs L paid for their PPI policy.  
I consider this fairly removes the source  of the unfairness. This is because  it leaves Mr and 
Mrs L with the policy  Ive concluded above they would still have taken  out if HSBC  had done  
everything it should have done   but with lower commission and profit  share levels.
Ref: DRN22046435So I consider that HSBCs offer of payment of an amount  equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated  interest where  
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance  to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold  the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint  or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  HSBC UK 
Bank Plc should  pay Mr and Mrs L an amount  equivalent to the commission  and profit share  
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus  associated  interest  where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 October  2021.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2204643