K820x#14complaint
Mr S on behalf of Mrs S complains that a car supplied to her under a finance  agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  (MBFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality as the 
turbocharger failed.
background
Mrs S bought a used  car in January  2015.  The car had covered around  8000 miles at the 
point of sale. The car cost £18,990  which Mrs S partially financed with an agreement from 
MBFS.
In September  2018 Mrs S complained to MBFS that the turbocharger on the car had failed 
and this was not expected of a car with this age and mileage. Half of the cost of the repair 
was paid by the dealership that supplied Mrs S with the car but Mrs S said the balance 
should be paid by MBFS because the turbo  had excessive play which caused the cracking  
and failure and this was present from the point of sale.
In September  2018 MBFS sent a final response letter  to Mrs S setting out that it did not 
uphold her complaint  on the basis that there was no evidence that the turbocharger  was 
faulty at the point of sale.
Our adjudicator didnt  think MBFS had done  anything wrong.  Having looked  at the age and 
mileage of the car and the miles  travelled  by Mrs S he wasnt able to conclude  that the 
turbocharger was faulty at the point  of sale. 
Mr S on behalf of Mrs S didnt agree and replied to say in summary that it would not be 
expected that a turbocharger should  fail within such a short time with a carefully driven  car 
that had only covered  54,000 miles. Mr S asked  for an ombudsman  to look at the complaint. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I sympathise with Mrs S and the 
mechanical difficulties  she has had with her car.
MBFS, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring  that it was of satisfactory 
quality at the point Mrs S bought it. Whether or not something is of satisfactory quality 
depends on a number of things such as the age and mileage of the car and the price that 
was paid for it. In Mrs Ss case the car was just over a year old and had covered 8000 miles.  
The car cost £18,990.  Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time but again 
that will depend on the age of the car and the amount  of miles covered. So you would expect 
fewer faults  with newer cars that had travelled fewer miles.
I cant see that Mrs S raised  any issues with the car or its performance to the supplying  
garage or to MBFS until the turbocharger failure  in September 2018. The turbocharger had 
cracked leading  to an oil leak from the engine. Mrs S says that there  was excessive play 
which resulted in the cracking over time and the eventual failure of the turbocharger. Mrs S 
says this was present  at the point  of sale. Mrs S says it would be reasonable to expect a 
turbocharger to last longer in a car that had been carefully driven.
Ref: DRN29749532I can understand why Mrs S would be disappointed that a car of this age, mileage and 
quality has had a turbocharger failure. I appreciate that she considers that it would be 
reasonable to expect  a turbocharger to last longer than this.
I have to be satisfied  that the fault was there  or developing at the point of sale.  I dont have 
enough evidence  to conclude that this was a manufacturing defect  or that the turbo failed 
because of an inherent fault. Although  it appears that the turbocharger  cracked because of 
excessive play I dont  have enough evidence to say that this was there  at the point of sale.  It 
is possible that it developed later. Given that Mrs S had been  driving  the car for over three 
and a half years and had covered over 46,000 miles without any issues I am unable to say 
that it is likely that the fault was there or developing at the point of sale. If it had been, I 
would have expected there to have been  problems such as noise or leaking  oil before 
September 2018.
Overall, I am not persuaded that the issue Mrs S had with the car was present at the point of 
sale. I think it is more likely that the problem developed over time and was as a result of 
wear and tear taking  into account the age and mileage of the car. So I cant  say that the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale.
I am sorry  that this is not the outcome  Mrs S was hoping for but I cant  ask MBFS to do any 
more. 
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 3 May 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2974953