K822xcomplaint
Mrs D complains that HSBC UK Bank plc is chasing her for a debt that she considers has 
been written off by the bank.
background 
Mrs D had a credit card with HSBC, and in 2012 the outstanding balance was passed  to the 
banks collections department. From 2013  the debt was administered by a third party debt 
charity, and Mrs D made reduced payments to clear what  she owed.
In 2018 Mrs D noticed her credit  file showed the account as having a nil balance and closed. 
This information had been recorded in 2014  and 2016. She understood this to mean the 
debt had been written  off by HSBC, so she stopped making payments to the account.
She then started  to receive  letters from HSBC, chasing  her for the outstanding balance.
HSBC said the information on Mrs Ds credit file had been recorded in error, and that there 
was still an outstanding balance on the account. It offered £150 compensation for the 
confusion caused  by the incorrect  information  on Mrs Ds credit file.
The name of the credit  card had also changed, and HSBC offered  £25 in recognition  that its 
reference to the new name may have  also caused  confusion.
Our adjudicator thought HSBCs offers were fair. She was satisfied that Mrs D still owed 
money on her account, and that the information  on her credit  file had been recorded in error.
Mrs D didnt agree with the adjudicators  conclusions, so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I appreciate that Mrs D has strong feelings  about  the information  recorded on her credit file, 
and that she considers the nil balance means HSBC has written off what  she owes. 
I realise my conclusions are likely to come  as a disappointment to Mrs D, but from what Ive 
seen, on balance Im satisfied that the credit file information is wrong and that she still owes 
money on her account.
I say this because  HSBC has provided  statements  to show the amount outstanding when the 
debt was first administered through the third party debt charity  in 2013. Its also provided 
statements showing what was owed in 2014,  2016, and when payments stopped  in 2018. 
In addition, it is not uncommon for mistakes to be made in the recording of credit  file 
information. I realise Mrs D wants to understand exactly how these mistakes  were made, 
particularly as the information  was recorded incorrectly  on two occasions.  I can see why Mrs 
Ref: DRN21061202D might  want  a full explanation,  but I dont consider it would change  the outcome  of the 
complaint. HSBC has accepted it made  mistakes, and has offered compensation in 
recognition of that. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I also think its likely that if HSBC had written off the debt, it wouldve  notified  Mrs D and the 
third party debt charity that was administering her payments. Ive seen nothing  to suggest 
that there  was any correspondence from HSBC confirming that the debt had been written  off.
Im also mindful that Mrs D had received the benefit  of the credit  shed used. So I think its 
likely that HSBC would want  her to repay what she owed. Again, that means  I think  its 
unlikely that HSBC has written off the debt.
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im satisfied  that the information on Mrs Ds credit file was 
recorded in error and that HSBCs offer of £150 in recognition of its mistakes is reasonable.
Im also satisfied that HSBC hasnt  written off the debt on Mrs Ds account, and that the 
balance remains outstanding.
The name of Mrs Ds credit card changed  in 2013,  but I dont consider this affected  what she 
owed on the account. HSBC offered £25 in recognition that its reference  to the new card 
name may have caused confusion, and I consider that fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that HSBC UK Bank  plc should  pay £175 in total to Mrs D.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2106120