K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way his claim for escape of oil was dealt with by Amtrust  Europe 
Limited and that it has voided his policy for non-disclosure of proposed building  works.
background
In November 2018 having just exchanged  contracts on the purchase of his property Mr S 
applied for insurance  through  a price comparison website. He was referred  to a broker and 
was asked questions  about some proposed works to the property. He confirmed that he was 
planning on installing a new kitchen  and bathrooms.  He was asked if he was planning any 
structural changes and replied that he might  change the tiles on the roof. But he confirmed 
he wasnt planning on having an extension or increasing the footprint of the building. He said 
the proposed  work would cost about £150,000.
In December 2018, shortly after moving in, Mr S noticed a smell of oil and this was traced 
back to a leak in the oil tank on the property. He made a claim to Amtrust and had to pay out 
to clean up the oil and replace the tank. He also lost a large  amount  of oil. Amtrust arranged  
for a loss adjuster to visit in January  2019. The loss adjuster referred the matter back to 
Amtrust as he was concerned that the property was underinsured, whether a previous claim 
had been disclosed  and whether Mr S had correctly  represented the flood risk. 
On further review, Amtrust discovered that Mr S had made an application for planning 
permission for works to the property the day after buying the policy.  It said the works 
proposed were substantially different to what had been disclosed when setting up the policy.  
In particular it included  structural work.  Having reviewed the claim with its underwriters 
Amtrust said it wouldnt have issued a policy if the extent of the work had been disclosed  to 
it. It said additionally  that Mr P had significantly  underinsured the property and hadnt 
disclosed previous  flood damage  he had been aware of. These latter  two points  wouldnt  
have affected  the issuing  of the policy although the underinsurance would have affected any 
pay-out and its likely it wouldnt have provided  flood  cover. Amtrust voided the policy  and 
declined to deal with the claim. 
Mr S denied that hed made any misrepresentation, pointing out that no works  were under 
way at the time of the claim  and the fact of applying for planning  permission didnt mean that 
he intended to carry out the work  detailed  in the application.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that he thought Amtrust had acted fairly. He 
was satisfied that in view of the fact that the plans had been submitted  the day after setting 
up the policy and that Mr S disclosed that he had planned on spending  in the region of 
£150,000 on the work  indicated that he had planned on carrying  it out.
Mr S objected pointing  out that the planning  permission  hadnt been applied for when he 
took out the policy. He said the figure of £150.000 wasn't excessive, that the house was 
large and the figure could easily apply to the kitchen and four bathrooms. He also said the 
planning consent was misleading   he didnt intend  to add a second  floor.  He further  pointed  
out that Amtrust  had taken two months  to reach its decision  whilst the property was 
contaminated by oil. He further said that we should  take the Insurance Act 2015 into 
account.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
Ref: DRN20229362my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it clear that the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
(CIDRA) applies to this case.  Mr S has referred  to the Insurance Act 2015 and the duty of 
fair presentation of the risk, but that duty (which  is more onerous than that applied to 
consumers) applies to non-consumer insurance contracts. CIDRA impose a duty on the 
consumer to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation.
At the time of applying for the insurance Mr S would  have  been aware of his intention  to 
apply for planning permission  and had already had the plans and application drawn up. He 
didnt disclose to Amtrust  what work the planning  application envisaged. The initial  question  
asked of Mr S was:
 Are there any major  works or refurbishments planned?
He replied yes. 
Then in the subsequent telephone conversation with the broker/agent he said the work  
proposed was new kitchen, new bathrooms . He was then asked: 
But no structural changes, it would just be re-fitting the insides? He replied that he might  
change the tiles on the roof. He went on to say that he wasnt planning on adding another 
extension or to increase the footprint. He said the proposed work would cost £150,000.
The work envisaged by the planning  application (which  was granted) was, a bedroom and 
study swapped,  utility room enlarged, stairs changed to wood, bathroom reconfiguration, 
gym area refigured,  a new curved landing, a new shared terrace and general 
reconfigurations. The permission referred  to the addition of a second floor.  Whilst Mr S says 
there was to be no addition of a second floor, the plans clearly show the raising  of the roof 
line to incorporate new rooms into the roof area. It appears that the property was bought  with 
a view to refurbishing it.
I have to decide whether Mr S made a misrepresentation as to the extent of the works which 
hed described  to Amtrust  as new kitchen and bathrooms and possible  new tiles. I think  the 
proposed work which he was aware of when  speaking  to the broker  was quite  different  and 
was structural and that he misrepresented the extent of that work.  Ive considered  his point 
that planning permission can be applied for without intending to carry out the work, but I 
think in all the circumstances  of this case that it was most likely that the £150,000 budget 
was for the work in the planning  consent.  I take into account that he would have been aware 
at the time of the set-up  call of the work outlined in the planning application.
So it was the fact that Mr S didnt disclose structural work that has caused  Amtrust to void 
the policy and not deal with Mr Ss claim. Ive seen the exchanges between the claims and 
the underwriting teams and its clear that the underwriters would have accepted 
refurbishment or refitting  of the kitchen and bathroom but on learning  the extent of the work  
set out in the planning consent  said they wouldnt have issued a policy.  
The statement  of fact that was issued with the policy documents says,  under the heading:  
Important Information, Information and changes we need to know about 
Ref: DRN20229363Please tell your broker if there are any changes  to the information  set out in the application 
form/Statement of Fact or on your schedule.  You must also tell your broker  about the 
following changes:  
any intended conversions, extensions or other  structural  work.
The statement  went  on to say:
When we are notified of a change, your broker will tell you if this affects  your policy,  for 
example whether we are able to accept the change and if so, whether the change  will result  
in revised terms and/or  premium being applied  to your policy.  
So I think Mr S was aware of the need  to advise Amtrust of the work he intended  to have 
carried out to the property. And that if he had done  so, the policy would have been referred 
to the underwriters who would have told Mr S a policy  wouldnt  be issued.
Mr Ss misrepresentation was careless and not reckless or deliberate. In those 
circumstances the insurer is entitled  to void the policy and return  the premium which is what 
happened here. I think Amtrust acted fairly.
As regards  Mr Ss complaint about the delay, he sent the claim form back  on 14 December. 
Then the loss adjusters visit was in early January. He referred the matter back  to the 
underwriters on other  grounds. It was only when it investigated the matter further and found 
the planning consent which it hadnt  been told about, that Amtrust  had to consider the matter 
further. It advised Mr S of its decision on 5 February. I understand Mr Ss anxiety  about  the 
matter but note that he was able to have  the necessary repairs  carried out. But a decision to 
void a policy  requires careful consideration. I dont think  there was an unreasonable delay in 
Amtrust advising  Mr S of its decision.
Whilst I appreciate the difficulty voiding the policy has caused Mr S, I think  that Amtrust 
acted reasonably in accordance with the policy terms and taking CIDRA into account.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2022936