K822xComplaint
Mr H complains that Advantage Finance  Ltd hasnt ensured his faulty car is properly 
repaired.
Background 
In May 2018  Mr H acquired  car costing  £3,430  funded by a hire purchase agreement. It was 
some nine years old and had done 80,433  miles.  The car was acquired online and Mr H 
didnt see it until he took delivery on 2 May.
He says that on delivery an engine management  light was on and a wing mirror  was broken, 
as was a back  light and there was a hole in the bumper. When he drove the car he noticed 
that it was in limp mode and was not operating  correctly.
Mr H informed Advantage of the problems the car was having immediately and the car was 
taken to a garage  to be fixed. It concluded the lambda sensor was causing the main problem 
and it was repaired. When Mr H got the car back the engine management light was clear but 
the car still was not driving as it should.
The car was returned to the garage  on the 14 May 2018 as two more error codes were 
showing. The car was repaired and returned  to Mr H 10 days later.  The car had to go back 
the following  day to have the oil changed. Mr H says the engine was making  a horrendous 
noise so he reported this and the car was sent back to the garage.
He says the car continued to make  the loud noise  and it was also jerking. He made  a 
number of complaints  and various attempts were  made to repair the car. On 4 October 2018 
an independent engineer  inspected the car. His report states  that there were adverse noises 
coming from the engine  which appeared when starting from cold and after it had warmed  to 
a maximum temperature.
The report  states  that the source could be from pistons, camshaft assemblies, tappets or the 
timing chain. It goes on to state:  It concluded  that given the fact that the vehicle has had a 
similar repair  in the past would lead us to the conclusion that the current issue  is associated  
with the previous repair and therefore the vehicle should be returned  to the sales  
agent/repairer for further diagnosis and rectification  under  the terms of the warranty.
The car was subject to another repair and a new oil pump was fitted costing some £900  but 
the car continued  to make  the same noise. On 29 November 2018 the independent engineer  
came out again  and issued another report on the vehicle which confirmed the engine  noise 
was still there. The report  says: The condition can be considered as a potential fault, but if 
the part had been cleaned  it could provide  some  indication  of why the noise is now easily 
audible. If the part has been cleaned of excess  carbon, then free play within  a warm engine 
part could be the cause of the rattles.
The report  makes a conclusion that the vehicle would have been  considered  to have  been  fit 
for purpose  and legally roadworthy at the point of sale.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who recommended  it be upheld. She noted that the second report had 
suggested that car had been fit for purpose at the point of sale,  but she also said the car had 
Ref: DRN20370402been back for various repairs and still hadnt  been  fixed. She thought he ought to be allowed 
to reject it. 
She noted Mr H had said he had incurred various costs, including phone and petrol which  he 
thought he should be compensated for. She also listened to a number of calls between Mr H 
and Advantage  and concluded that on occasions Advantage staff hadnt  been professional  
and that Mr H had expressed his frustration. She suggested he be compensated by a refund 
of 10% of his monthly payments and a payment of £100.
Advantage agreed, but Mr H didnt.  He said that he didnt think the compensation was 
sufficient and said 10% of his payments  was worth only £3 a week.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Advantage is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I am satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality and Advantage covered the cost of 
repairs, but the Consumer Rights Act 2015 allows the merchant one opportunity  to repair  the 
car and this clearly  wasnt successful.  This service  regards  the car as a single item and the 
one repair  it made was its opportunity to ensure the car was fit for purpose.  As this wasnt  
achieved then rejection is a reasonable  outcome.  I dont need to explore this aspect in 
further detail,  given it has been  accepted.
As far as compensation is concerned  I have  noted  that in the first seven months of 
ownership Mr H had driven the car for some 4,500 miles and so while it may have been 
faulty he was able to make  use of it. I am also aware  that on the first occasion  it was in for 
repairs he was offered a courtesy car. 
Ref: DRN20370403I dont under estimate the problems Mr H encountered, but Advantage has sought  to support 
him in getting  the car fixed. Therefore, I find myself in agreement with our investigator that a 
reduction of 10% in monthly payments plus interest  is fair along with a payment of £100.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Advantage Finance Ltd
allow Mr H to reject the vehicle with nothing further to pay
collect the car at no cost to Mr H
refund  10% on all monthly payments that have been made towards the agreement. 
This is due to the loss of use where the car has been in the garage a number  of 
times.
Pay interest at 8%simple on the refund of the 10% of the monthly  payments
pay Mr H £100 compensation for the poor customer  service he has experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2037040