K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited wrongly  cancelled  his with-profits  
investment plan in 2016 and then refused to reinstate it.
background
Aviva rejected Mr Ps complaint. It said it received his cancellation request by FAX on 13 
October 2016 and a confirmatory letter the following  day. It then wrote to confirm that the 
policy had been  made paid up. It said it had no records of any alleged  calls in late 2016 
querying why the premiums werent  being  collected. It said its first record  of such  a call 
wasnt till December 2017 by which time it was too late to re-instate the policy.
It said that if Mr Ps advisor  had changed  the policy number  to be made paid up on the form 
and/or potentially copied his signature, as Mr P implied,  then he would need to take this up 
with him.
An adjudicator did not feel the complaint  should be upheld, saying:
It appears that Mr Ps advisor incorrectly instructed Aviva to cancel the policy and it 
was not unreasonable for it to act on this instruction
Aviva  sent out a correctly-addressed letter, on 17 October  2016, confirming that the 
policy had been made paid-up.  Therefore, he felt Mr P should  have received this
Avivas offer to reinstate the policy, but with new conditions,  had been  fair and 
reasonable
Mr P did not agree,  and said:
There were  three policies and Aviva  was negligent in only providing information 
about one of these, and then using inadequate  information when writing its 
cancellation letter - in the belief that this was the only policy  he held
Any confirmation letter  may have been  sent to his advisor. Could this be why he 
never received  the one that Aviva claims it sent?
Proof of writing a letter is not proof  of delivery
The process that Aviva used  to cancel the policy was unsatisfactory. There should be 
some positive  form of confirmation of an intention to cancel  such a valuable,  long-
standing policy, including  a phone call at least
The copy  of the constructed  cancellation  letter is such  an obvious fabrication that 
those working for Aviva ought  reasonably to have spotted this. Their failure to do so 
was unprofessional; and rather than acting  on it they should have investigated further
He did not feel as though he had been treated fairly
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
I dont doubt that Mr P did not wish to cancel this policy but my role is to decide  what,  if 
anything, Aviva did wrong. I dont believe there  is sufficient to conclude that it has done 
anything substantially wrong.
Ref: DRN25725472I am satisfied it was entitled  to act on the FAX and subsequent hard copy  of a letter  asking it 
to stop direct  debit  payments on this policy, particularly given the signature  appeared to be 
Mr Ps. I am also satisfied it confirmed it had done  this, sending a letter  to Mr Ps correct  
address. I have no reason to doubt that this was delivered.
The fact that Mr P claims he repeatedly rang Aviva in November/December 2016 strongly 
suggests he did receive some confirmation  that the policy had been  cancelled or put on hold.  
He ought reasonably, therefore, to have  realised the premiums  had also been stopped and 
the implications of this.
I dont know why he appeared  to wait a year to pursue this issue  but I am satisfied that Aviva 
was entitled, by this point,  to only allow the policy to be restarted with fresh medical  
underwriting and with the loss of qualifying status.
I dont agree that Aviva ought  to have done more  to establish that Mr P definitely  wanted to 
cancel/stop payments on the policy. It received clear instructions and acted on them.
I have no reason to dispute Mr Ps evidence that his signature was fabricated  and it does 
appear as if Mr Ps advisor may have  been  at fault.  But I have not seen sufficient  evidence  to 
make a definitive verdict  about this, and it is not my role to do so. This is limited to 
considering whether Aviva did something wrong,  which I am not persuaded it did. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2572547