K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1997 
alongside a store card. 
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy 
was mis-sold.
I completed a provisional decision on 6 September  2019, which is attached and forms part of 
this decision, setting out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party  responded 
with any evidence or comments for me to consider.  So based  on my previous findings, and 
in the absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23683222COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DEICISON
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 1997 alongside  a 
store card.
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, should  
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Miss G says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator upheld this complaint. FICL  disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Miss Gs case.
Although I have only included some of the complaint points made  by each party, I have read and 
considered all the evidence and arguments available  to me from the outset,  in order to decide  what  is, 
in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
I currently dont think the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss G said the PPI was taken out in a meeting and it was added  without her knowledge  or 
consent. FICL has provided evidence  of its internal  records  to show that the PPI was taken out 
over the phone in 1997  a few years after the store card account had been set up. But 
unfortunately due to the length of time thats  passed there is no call recording for me to listen to  
so I cant  say what exactly  was discussed at the time. But as Miss G already had the credit in 
place I think she wouldve known  the PPI was an optional  extra and not a condition of having  the 
store card.
Ive thought about what Miss G said about the PPI being added without her knowledge, but Ive 
not seen any other evidence from the time to support this. And as the sale took place  so long ago 
 around 22 years ago  its difficult to rely on what Miss G says alone to conclude something 
untoward happened. So without anything else persuasive to make think  me otherwise, I think its 
unlikely FICL  wouldve added the PPI to Miss Gs account without her permission.
So based on what Ive seen I think FICL made it clear that Miss G didnt  have to take out the PPI 
and that she chose  to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this.
FICL didnt  advise Miss G to take out the policy  so it didnt have to check if the policy was right for 
her. But it did have  to make sure Miss G got the information she needed  to decide if the PPI was 
right for her.
Its possible  the information FICL gave Miss G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been 
 and Miss G says she wasnt given any information about the policy. But she chose to take out 
the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this type of cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits 
on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN23683223Miss G says the PPI was of no use to her because she had some sick pay at the time and her 
family couldve supported her if needed. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that he 
felt that had Miss G been  given  the full details of the cost and benefit  of the policy, and taking into 
account her personal  circumstances  at the time, she wouldnt have taken out the PPI cover.  FICL 
disagreed with this, specifically disagreeing  with what Miss G said her sick pay entitlement  
wouldve been at the time.
We asked  for more evidence of her sick pay and how long it wouldve  lasted.  Miss Gs 
representative responded  to inform us that she Miss G did receive sick pay but she could not 
provide any evidence of her entitlement  from the time. So Ive not been able to rely on this 
evidence as much as Miss G may have wanted me to.
However, for no more  than £1.00 per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance the PPI wouldve 
paid out up to 15% of Miss Gs outstanding monthly balance, until she returned to work  or the 
outstanding balance had been paid off. This wouldve paid out in addition to Miss Gs sick pay so 
these funds couldve been used for other expenses. And while I appreciate Miss Gs family 
wouldve been  willing to help her, support  from others cant always  be guaranteed  as their 
circumstances can also change  over time.
So overall I still think  the PPI wouldve been useful for Miss G and I dont think  better  information  
about the cost and benefit of the policy  wouldve changed her decision to take out the cover.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  outlined above, I currently dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 6 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2368322