K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Ive attached a copy  of my provisional  decision from May 2020 which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was thinking of upholding Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Because Nationwide  said it needed more time, it was given  
an extended deadline of 12 July 2020  to either respond in full or to let this service know  if it 
needed a further extension. To date, no response  has been received from Nationwide.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As none of the parties has provided any 
further evidence  or arguments for consideration, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
It follows that I uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and require Nationwide Building  
Society to pay fair compensation  as set out in my provisional decision below.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN21061552COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the borrowing  in a branch in November 
1992 (with the loan and PPI going live in January  1993). It was a joint policy with Mr and Mrs C each 
having 50% of the benefit.
When Nationwide looked at Mr and Mrs Cs complaint,  it agreed that the policy had been mis-sold to 
Mr C, so it paid part redress to compensate for that. However, it said that the policy  had not been mis-
sold to Mrs C. Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with this outcome and so brought their complaint  to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Nationwide  disagrees  with the adjudicators view and so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Im currently  upholding  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say they were  led to believe that the PPI was a compulsory part of the mortgage. Mr 
and Mrs C had originally  taken  out their mortgage in 1988. In 1993 they applied for additional  
borrowing and it was then that they bought PPI, which  covered both the new home  improvement loan 
and the original  mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage had already been running  for some years in 
1993, I dont consider they could have  thought that the PPI was a condition of the mortgage. Also,  Ive 
seen the Home Improvement Loan form that was completed during the meeting   which contained  
yes and no boxes to either request  or decline the cover. Mr and Mrs C have ticked  the yes boxes. 
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Cs recollection of 
events has faded. Looking at the available  evidence, it seems to me that Mr and Mrs C decided to 
take out the PPI, knowing  that they didnt  have  to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Nationwide didnt advise  Mr and Mrs C to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure  that it met their 
needs. But it did need to provide the couple with sufficient information for them to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for them.
Mr C wasnt  working at the time and therefore he wasnt eligible for the policy at the time of the sale. I 
assume this is why Nationwide  partly  upheld  the complaint and refunded half of the premiums.
Our adjudicator has upheld  the complaint because Mrs C has said that she was working as a temp, 
fewer than 16 hours a week, which  would  also mean that she wasnt eligible for the policy. This is 
where my view differs from that of the adjudicator  as, on balance, I am not necessarily persuaded  that 
Mrs C was an agency  worker, working fewer than 16 hours per week in 1993. On the application form 
she has said that she had been working for her employer for 1 year and 7 months, which might 
indicate that she wasnt  a temp. This is itself doesnt mean that she wasnt working  part-time but, 
when Nationwide spoke  to Mr and Mrs C when it was investigating the complaint,  Mrs C had said that 
she was working full time in 1993 and that it was later that she went part time.
Ref: DRN21061553Having said that, this doesnt ultimately  make  a difference to the outcome of the complaint as I have 
another reason  for currently upholding  it.
Mr and Mrs C bought a joint policy. It is accepted  that it wasnt suitable  for Mr C. Therefore it is clear  
that the information  provided  at the point of sale wasnt sufficient to highlight the main terms of the 
policy to Mr and Mrs C  because clearly they wouldnt have sought to cover Mr C if they had 
understood that he wasnt eligible for it. Its difficult to know what  Mr and Mrs C would have done at 
the time if they had been given sufficient information. In refunding 50%, Nationwide  seems to have 
assumed that they would  have taken out the policy to cover Mrs C in any event. I dont think  I can 
safely assume that. But I do know that they wouldnt have  taken out the policy that Nationwide  did in 
fact sell them,  as it wasnt entirely suitable for them. On that basis I consider  that the policy was mis-
sold and that Nationwide should refund the full cost of the policy. It follows  that I currently uphold the 
complaint.
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mr and Mrs C in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. So 
Nationwide should:
Pay Mr and Mrs C the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If the couple made a successful claim  under  the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what  they 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes Mr and Mrs C.  
Nationwide can deduct the amount it has already paid back when it partly upheld  the 
complaint from the amount it owes Mr and Mrs C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide must  give 
Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and require  Nationwide Building 
Society to pay compensation as detailed  above.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2106155