K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society wont provide him with copies of signed 
transaction slips to prove that he authorised a number of credit card payments.
background
Mr S has a Nationwide credit card. Rather  than a chip and PIN card,  which most customers 
have, he has a chip and signature card. Hes explained thats so that he has a record of his 
authorisation of transactions, in the form of his signature on copies of transaction slips. 
Mr S identified six transactions,  totalling just over £75, which  he doesnt recall making and 
for which he didnt have transaction slips. All the transactions were  made  at a supermarket 
he uses regularly. He asked Nationwide to provide copies as proof that he had indeed  
signed them,  thereby authorising Nationwide to debit his account. Nationwide has not 
provided copies  of those slips,  saying its for the merchant to provide them.  
Mr S says that, unless  he signed transaction slips, Nationwide cannot debit his account,  
since it cant show that he authorised the payments. He says too that Nationwide  has 
provided them in the past.   
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr S complained to this service, and one of our 
investigators considered  what  had happened.  He didnt think Nationwide had wrongly 
debited Mr Ss account. Mr S didnt  accept the investigators opinion, however,  and asked 
that an ombudsman  review the case.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In responding  to our investigators  opinion,  Mr S said that he thought the reason Nationwide  
hadnt provided signed transaction slips was that he didnt believe he had signed  them.  
Since Nationwide hasnt provided  copies  and neither has the retailer,  Im prepared to accept 
that thats the case, and I approach Mr Ss complaint on that basis. 
I accept of course that it might be helpful for Mr S to have copies of transaction slips, so that 
he can, if necessary,  reconcile his spending.  I dont  accept, however, that Nationwide  has to 
provide those slips to him as a matter of course. 
Mr S has said that the only way he can authorise  credit card payments is by his signature on 
a transaction slip. Im afraid that appears  to be a misunderstanding on his part. His signature 
may be evidence that he, rather than someone else, made  transactions  (in the same way the 
use of a PIN would be evidence  that the card is being used by the genuine cardholder). But 
the absence of a signature does not, of itself, mean that Nationwide cannot  debit  Mr Ss 
account if in fact he made the transaction. His signature is a way for the merchant to verify 
(by matching the signature on the card) that he is the genuine cardholder. It isnt  as Mr S 
suggests  authority in itself; its evidence of authority.  
So the real issue  here isnt whether  Mr S signed  transaction slips, its whether he made the 
payments to the supermarket. Copies of signed transaction  slips might  well help me answer 
that question,  but they arent available. I must therefore consider what other evidence there 
is. 
Ref: DRN23850332Mr S says he didnt authorise the payments. But, as Ive explained, his understanding  of 
authorisation is that he must have signed the transaction  slips;  that isnt, however, correct. 
Ive considered therefore whether he went to the merchant in question and received goods in 
return for a card payment. He hasnt  suggested  that anyone  else had access to his card or 
that he didnt receive  the goods bought with it. Nor has he suggested the retailer  misused 
the card  for example,  by over-charging him or charging him for goods he didnt receive. 
I believe that, in each case, Mr S went to the retailer,  bought  goods  and either gave his card 
to a member of staff or put it in a card reader  with the intention that it would be used to take 
payment and that the payment would be added to his credit card bill by Nationwide.  Indeed,  
he hasnt suggested  otherwise. I take the view that this is sufficient for me to say that he did 
authorise the payments he has queried.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Nationwide Building Society  to do anything  more to 
resolve Mr Ss complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required 
to ask Mr S to accept  or reject my decision before 15 December 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2385033