K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the refusal  of a claim under his central  heating  insurance policy  
with Royal  & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc.
background
Mr C made  a claim under his policy in January 2019  after his boiler broke down. RSA sent 
an engineer out the next day. He said there were leaks from the heat exchanger and 
condensate trap, as well as the trap being full. RSA contacted an engineer from the 
manufacturer to see if he could fix the boiler.
The manufacturers engineer attended a few days later. He apparently said he couldnt 
access the boiler to safely repair it, as it is situated on a cupboard  around  five feet off the 
ground. He also said it would  be a job for two men.  RSA asked if Mr C could make the boiler 
more accessible,  by removing the cupboard  around  it. 
Mr C says the boiler is in the airing  cupboard, which is a brick built structure integral to his 
home, and so he cant remove any part of it. The manufacturers engineer  apparently said it 
couldnt fix the boiler in its location,  so RSA said the boiler was beyond  economic repair. 
RSA said the policy  terms mean  that there  is no cover for a replacement boiler and there  
was nothing more  it could do. 
Mr C is very unhappy with this. He has cancelled his policy and arranged  to have the boiler 
repaired by an independent  gas engineer. Mr C said his engineer disagreed  with RSAs 
diagnosis, and said the most likely  cause of the leak was hairline cracks of the ignition 
electrode ceramics. Although he also said that the heat exchanger had a leak and the 
condensate trap needed replacing,  he thought  these  werent  the cause of the breakdown.   
Mr C says RSA misdiagnosed  the fault and unnecessarily asked him to make the boiler 
more accessible.  Mr C wants RSA to reimburse the costs of repair  £1,149 (consisting of 
£699 for parts and £450 for labour).
RSA maintains that it has done all it could under the policy. It says the policy excludes cover  
for repairs if the parts needed would  cost more than 75% of the cost of a new boiler.  In this 
case the cost of parts needed  for Mr Cs boiler would exceed the cost of a new boiler, so 
repairs are not covered.  However, RSA said it should have  told Mr C at the outset that the 
repairs would not be covered under the policy and acknowledge that this caused him some  
inconvenience. It offered  £150 compensation for this. I understand this has already been 
paid.
One of our investigators  looked in the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld. The investigator said that using Mr Cs engineers quote for the cost of the parts 
needed, which was £699 (inclusive  of VAT) for the heat exchanger,  condensate  trap, 
electrode and electrode wiring harness  but not including labour, meant  the cost of repairs  
would be more than 75% of the cost of a new boiler. The investigator  therefore thought  that 
RSAs decision to turn down the claim was fair.
Mr C doesnt accept  the investigators  assessment.  He has made  a number of submissions, 
which Ive summarised below: 
RSAs engineer completely misdiagnosed the fault. Leaking exchange heaters and 
condensate traps  do not affect  ignition, which is the reason he made the claim.
Ref: DRN26165772The cost of installing  a new boiler will far exceed the cost of the repairs  he had done.
Following the misdiagnosis by RSAs engineer, RSA ordered a new heat exchanger  
and condensate trap and asked the manufacturer to install  them. The manufacturer  
then declared the boiler as beyond economical  repair and he then became a pawn in 
a game  between the two organisations, neither of which had an interest in serving 
the customer. 
RSA cannot  hide behind the "beyond economic repair"  clause when  it purchased all 
parts necessary  to repair the boiler and instructed the manufacturer to complete  it. 
And the manufacturer cannot hide behind the boiler location in the airing cupboard 
being too high because  from 2006  to 2012 it serviced and repaired the boiler  several 
times without its location ever being an issue. 
This is clearly a case of the manufacturer and RSA being business  rivals and he has 
have been caught  in the middle of their stand-off.
It was more or less three weeks to complete the repair, not one week as stated by 
the investigator.
His engineer had the boiler working  again within ten minutes, albeit temporarily until 
all the additional  parts identified by RSA were  installed. The boiler  was not therefore  
beyond repair.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy Mr C holds states:  
If the boiler is beyond  economic repair  and there  is no boiler replacement  cover we will not 
carry out a repair or offer a contribution  or replacement.
It defines beyond economic repair as being : 
The cost of parts including VAT, using reputable suppliers, this should not exceed 75% of
the price of a boiler of the same or similar make and model to your boiler  on cover.
Similar conditions are contained in most boiler insurance policies and I dont think  it is 
inherently unfair. If a boiler is deemed to be beyond economic repair, it doesnt mean that 
the boiler cannot be repaired  but rather that the cost of the repairs  is more than a new one 
would cost, or in this case 75% of the cost of a new one. 
Mr C also says the boiler parts were all still available which means the manufacturer 
considered the boiler to be a worthy  product  and so worth repairing. This might  well be the 
case but the issue here is whether the cost of those necessary repairs are covered by the 
insurance policy with RSA or not. 
When assessing the cost of the replacement boiler, it is sufficiently clear in my opinion from 
the definition above, that it would be the price  of the boiler only that is relevant, and the  
labour costs of installation  would not be included. RSA has said the same make  and similar 
model of Mr Cs boiler was available  for just under £600. The investigator didnt find any for 
more than £800. Ive not seen any evidence to contradict these figures.  I am therefore 
Ref: DRN26165773satisfied that £800  is a reasonable comparison  price  to use as against the cost of the 
replacement parts needed to repair Mr Cs boiler.  
Mr C says that RSA misdiagnosed the problem  with the boiler and that the cause of the fault 
that gave rise to the claim was the problem with the ignition. He therefore implies the cost of 
this part only should be used to determine if the boiler was beyond economic repair.  
Mr Cs engineer provided three quotes  to him. The first was for the: 
supply and fit new main heat exchanger, due to existing one leaking. Also, supply and fit 
new electrode, condense trap and electrode  wiring harness, to hopefully  remedy existing 
ignition lockout.
It might be that the issue that led to the boiler shutting off was the problem  with the ignition 
but I am not persuaded the quote  from Mr Cs engineer means that the heat exchanger  and 
condensate traps were irrelevant to the fault.
Mr Cs engineer also found the circulation  pump  needed replacing but provided a separate  
quote for this, albeit  at the same  time;  and the third quote  was for a new room thermostat, 
which would also be a separate  issue. And while RSAs engineer focused on the heat 
exchanger and condensate trap, as Mr Cs engineer  also diagnosed these as needing 
replacing, I do not accept  that RSA completely misdiagnosed  the issue.
Given the above, it seems  to me therefore  that the heat exchanger and condensate  trap 
were required  to get the boiler working  properly, they were  part of the overall repair and so 
the cost of these  parts  is relevant to the decision about whether it was beyond economic 
repair. RSAs engineer said the cost of these parts would be over £600 and Mr Cs engineer 
charged £699 for them. 
Even using  the price  of £800  for a new boiler (rather than the lower figure provided by RSA) 
and the lower figure of £600  for the parts  (rather  than the £699 Mr C was actually charged) 
this would mean the costs of the parts were 75% of the price of the boiler. I am not therefore  
persuaded that RSA has acted unfairly or unreasonably  in determining that the boiler  was 
beyond economic repair in accordance with the policy terms. 
Mr C also says that RSA and the manufacturer were competing against  each  other, rather 
than trying to help him and that the manufacturers engineer incorrectly  asked him to remove 
the cupboard  around the boiler. 
From the evidence available, I am satisfied it was not necessary to remove  the cupboard. 
The boiler was apparently  serviced each year and Mr Cs engineers  repaired it, without any 
issues with its location.  
I have no jurisdiction over the manufacturers  engineers in their own right, as I can only 
consider the actions of RSA in this decision.  However, RSA instructed the manufacturer  to 
try and repair the boiler  it was therefore  acting as RSAs agent  in this situation  and that 
was the only reason  it was involved.  Mr C says they are business  rivals and I have been 
caught in the middle of their stand  off. However,  there is simply no basis  to this. I can see 
no other reason  for RSA contacting the manufacturer  other  than to try and assist  Mr C.
The manufacturers involvement did not resolve the problem  with the boiler  and I can 
appreciate Mr Cs frustration regarding its insistence on the access being made, when  this 
Ref: DRN26165774was not apparently necessary. However,  this in itself does not, in my opinion,  mean that 
RSA should reimburse  Mr Cs costs of the repairs.  
RSA was apparently  prepared  to cover the repairs and its decision to deem the boiler to be 
beyond economic repair was prompted  by the manufacturer saying access needed  to be 
made. However, I do not consider  that this binds  RSA to carry out the repairs  when there is 
sufficient evidence that they are not covered.  
I am satisfied that it has been established  the boiler was beyond  economic repair,  so even  
though it was prepared to repair the boiler at the outset, RSA is not bound by this. While 
RSA tried to do the repairs in order to assist Mr C, I agree that some compensation is 
appropriate to reflect that this should have been determined  earlier  and that not doing so has 
caused Mr C some trouble and inconvenience.  I consider the £150  already paid by RSA to 
be reasonable. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc, as I consider it has 
already made an offer of settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2616577