K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains about the new fees structure introduced by Equiniti Financial Services 
Limited, giving  him little time to switch out to another provider. 
Hes also unhappy about the business refusal to provide correspondence that proves  that as 
a VIP customer he was told he wouldnt be charged any fees. 
background 
There has been much correspondence between the parties regarding Mr Ws principle 
complaints and issues arising from it, of which there  are 21 separate  complaint points. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld, and 
despite the numerous points made  by Mr W in response, he wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Prior to issuing his view, hed spoken  to Mr W and explained why hed be considering 
three main issues and Mr W agreed. In other words,  several  issues  were considered 
out of jurisdiction because they werent referred  to our service  in time: 
oThe issue surrounding  the business using Mr Ws employers details to 
contact him was addressed in the Final Response Letter (FRL)  dated  April 
2018.
oThe issues surrounding the new pricing tariff and the 30-day time scale to find 
a new provider was addressed in a subsequent FRL dated June 2018. This 
included charges for the recent quarter which is linked to the new charging 
tariff. 
oIn each of the above instances Mr W had six months within  which to refer his 
complaint to our service and failed to do so, because  of this  the above  two 
components to Mr Ws complaint   are out of jurisdiction.  
The issues surrounding the Freedom  of Information Act (FOIA) are better dealt with 
by the Information  Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Whilst Mr W is adamant  that fees wouldnt be applied to him, it was established that 
messages relating  to this issue were from the previous business prior to the 
migration. So the business isnt bound  by any agreements  with a previous business  
instead its entitled to set its own pricing  structure and rules.
The above notwithstanding,  it wouldve been  unfair to apply charges to customers  
who wanted to switch providers and apply  charges  that prevented those  consumers 
from moving. The business  decision to waive this fee is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
He was satisfied  by the following  explanation from the business:
oThe Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) has not proposed new rules about 
exit/transfer fees but has agreed to review the progress within the industry  in 
2020/2021. Therefore the business  isnt in breach of any specific  guideline in 
relation to this. 
oThe business publishes  its rates  clearly  online and customers  agree to these 
rates when opening an account.
oThe business doesnt charge an exit fee to close  a product but does charge 
if customers want it to do work to transfer their assets elsewhere. 
oThe charge  is £15 per line of stock and it offers £100 towards  an account 
opened with it for incoming transfers to help offset any exit fees.
Ref: DRN28402032Hes satisfied that the fees referred to by Mr W were refunded on 4 December  as 
evidenced by the business  and any additional  charges that may have been made 
were because  the account  is still open. That said, theres nothing he can do about 
fees being charged by an outside  business.
Mr W could  choose to close  the account  without  incurring any fees and the business 
would transfer  the remaining balance to an account of his choosing.
The £50 compensation offered by the business was for trouble and upset caused  by 
the business unclear communications   regarding having share certificates issued  
it wasnt for financial loss.  
Compensation amounts are usually modest and look at the impact  the mistake has 
had on the consumer. In the circumstances he doesnt think  the business should  pay 
more. 
Whilst the business didnt register Mr Ws vote in time  the remaining shareholders 
voted against  in the way intended  by him  so he hasnt lost out. 
Mr W disagreed  with the investigators conclusions and has asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. In summary,  he said:
The process that began in May 2019 is still going  on. On 5 August there were 19 
issues of complaint  which the business failed to address  by 9 August the number 
of complaint points  rose to 20, when  he was charged after being  forced  to open an 
account with another  company for which he has no details. And finally on 20 August 
the complaint  points  went to 21.  
Mr W is unhappy that each of his complaint points  which  have caused him financial 
loss and inconvenience  werent  considered  individually, and multiple  issues  remain  
unresolved. And by doing so the investigator  has ignored the foundation of Mr Ws 
complaint. 
He feels like hes spent more time outlining his complaint than the time taken by the 
investigator to consider  it, so feels his complaint has been misunderstood.
He still doesnt  feel its been  made clear why some of his points were deemed out of 
jurisdiction. Surely if the business  is unable to resolve his complaint, our service 
should be able to, without giving into the business delaying  tactics.
The ICO complaint  is due to the business deliberately not providing multiple other 
communications. He finds it hard to believe that the investigator has ruled  on the 
issue of the business  and its behaviour following the SAR.  
Even though  he agreed a fixed fee to leave the company, and the business  says its 
refunded fees, hes still waiting for this to happen.  
The investigators view doesnt take into account  the months of frustration and 
expense in dealing  with the business.  Instead his view is an over simplification of the 
matter.
He remains unhappy about the voting issue  which has occurred twice   and the 
one week notice  period is designed for people not to be able to respond on time and 
make their votes  count.  
The business admitted fault  regarding the share certificate issue   and yet hes 
only paid £50 compensation  and closed the complaint despite him not agreeing to it. 
He feels the investigator has concentrated too much  on trouble and upset rather  than 
the financial losses hes incurred.   
Hes still chasing the business for information. 
He feels like hes being finically punished for wanting to leave the business and yet 
the business is being rewarded  despite  frustrating the issues  and deliberately  taking 
its time.  
Ref: DRN28402033If his recourse is through  an alternative  legal route, then the investigators review has 
been another delaying  tactic.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ws strength of feeling  about this matter. 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. In 
other words, its not for me to individually respond to each  of the 21 points but I will do my 
very best to address  his complaint generally.  
Im conscious the complaint boils down to two key issues which  Mr W refers to as the 
foundation of his complaint and many  of the 21 points flow out of this. In this context my role 
is to consider the evidence presented by Mr W and the business,  and reach  what  I think  is 
an independent,  fair and reasonable decision  based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
Im aware that Mr W received FRLs  from the business  dated April 2018 and June 2018  
regarding his complaint about the business using his employer details to contact  him, and 
the new pricing tariff. Mr W therefore  had six months from the date of the respective FRLs 
within which  to refer his complaint to our service. But by failing to refer these complaints to 
us within  six months of receiving the FRL in each instance, these two components  of this 
complaint, along  with issues  that are directly  linked to them  are out of our jurisdiction.  
Therefore, Im unable  to consider  his complaint about these two issues. If it assists  Mr W, 
even if the complaint was in jurisdiction, its unlikely  Id say 30 days was an unreasonable  
amount of time within  which  to decide  if Mr W wanted to go elsewhere. I note the business 
says that it takes  only a week to access any request. 
Im also aware that the business says that the relevant fees were  refunded  on 4 December 
2019. And whilst  the account remains open the business will continue to charge  Mr W in line 
with its charging structure so he may wish to consider closing his account.  I understand  that 
the business is willing to assist Mr W in this regard  without any fees and transfer the 
remaining balance to an account of his choosing, so it can close the account. That way Mr W 
Ref: DRN28402034 who is clearly very unhappy with the business  and how matters have developed  can 
hopefully be happy  elsewhere.  
Im aware of Mr Ws concerns  about  the Subject  Access Request (SAR) hes made  to the 
business, and about documentation he says the business has deliberately chosen not to 
supply and is instead frustrating the whole process.  Im aware of the ongoing issues  hes 
facing chasing  documents.  But these arent regulated issues that our service has jurisdiction 
to investigate, in other words, its not for me to determine if the business has complied with 
the SAR. 
I note that Mr W has made a complaint to the ICO  as suggested by the investigator  and 
he should therefore let the ICO deal with the relevant matters  (including information he is still 
waiting on to receive from the business)  which I think is the correct forum  to consider this 
part of his complaint.    
If it assists  Mr W to bring some closure  on the issue, on balance, I think its more likely (than 
not) that Mr W received correspondence indicating that he wouldnt be charged fees 
because of his VIP status. I hope  Mr W will take this to mean that he doesnt now need to 
chase the business for correspondence  to prove  this point as I dont disagree with what  he 
says. 
That notwithstanding, theres nothing  to say that the new business is automatically bound  by 
any undertaking by the old business.  Thats why Im satisfied that the business  is entitled to 
set its own rules in the reasonable  exercise of its legitimate  commercial  judgement.  I dont 
think it needed Mr Ws consent or agreement, as long as it notified  him of the change and 
gave him an opportunity to go elsewhere  if he was unhappy with the proposal, which Im 
broadly satisfied it did. 
In the circumstances dont think the business  was wrong  to send updates/messages 
electronically as it was a non-advised  online platform, and that was how it generally 
communicated with its customers. Ive seen nothing  to suggest that it had to treat Mr W 
differently to all its customers by sending updates in the post rather than via email.  
I appreciate Mr W spent  a long time researching points including other businesses, only to 
find that there was going to be a cost if he wanted to leave and go elsewhere. But the 
business has now made clear that its not going to charge Mr W if he wants  to leave and 
take his business elsewhere  so he no longer has to worry about that.
I agree  with the investigator that given that the business chose to make changes  to its 
charging structure, its only fair that it should  allow customers to leave and go elsewhere  if 
theyve unhappy  about the changes,  and without generally having  to incur additional costs. I 
appreciate Mr W says hes waiting for a refund  of fees but the business has provided 
information to show this was done on 4 December 2019. It might  be useful if it gave Mr W a 
breakdown so it would put his mind at rest. Im confident having  undertaken to refund these 
fees if there  is any small discrepancy the business will honour its promise. Im satisfied by its 
answer of 19 December 2019, but I dont think anything I say is going to change  Mr Ws 
mind. If some  of Mr Ws shares have been charged  overseas  charges, the business cant be 
held responsible for this. And these charges dont mean that the business hasnt refunded 
fees for which its responsible.
I know Mr W has many questions about  his tax position and his unhappy  that the business 
has been unable  to give him answers  including whether he will be taxed double, whether 
Ref: DRN28402035his dividends will be taxed and the status  of is demerged shares  I dont think  the business  
is in a position to advice  on these  matters because its a non-advisory service.   
Whilst I appreciate Mr W has spent  a number of hours trying to find the answers himself,  I 
dont think I can blame  the business  for this. He may wish to get independent financial 
advice and or specialist tax advice before making any other changes. That way hes likely to 
get reliable and accurate answers  to his questions but its entirely a matter  for him.  
  
I appreciate the point  Mr W makes about the UK Link Service Account, but on the face of the 
evidence and on balance  Im unable to say that he was forced into opening an account  with 
it. I appreciate the business was unable to service his holdings,  but it was entirely his choice 
to go with another business.  
I note Mr W refers to an error about the business mistakenly selling  his holdings, I 
understand the business has undone  this error   as acknowledged by Mr W  and with no 
financial detriment to him. And I understand that because the business failed to provide Mr 
W with the share certificates, it paid him £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.  
In the circumstances I dont think that it needs  to do anything  more. 
I note Mr W is unhappy  about the £50 compensation offered for trouble and upset but I think  
its broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances,  and broadly reflects the impact  this has 
had on Mr W. Im mindful it wasnt payment for any financial loss Mr W claims hes 
experienced.  
I appreciate Mr W will be thoroughly  unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business  to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr W 
what he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020 .
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2840203