K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
credit card in 1995. Mr A says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  the reasons for my decision.
Mr A applied for his credit card through the post.  He says he wouldnt have been willing 
to pay extra  for PPI and never took out PPI protection. Ive seen Mr As credit card 
application, there is a tick in the box selecting PPI and hes signed the application.  
Mr A says this doesnt prove that he actually ticked the box and selected  PPI and he 
doesnt recollect doing so. Hes suggested  that the weight of ink used on the form to tick 
to select PPI is inconsistent with other writing on the form and that it possible the tick 
couldve been completed after he returned his application form. He also says that its 
also possible  that the lender may have  told Mr A to sign here with no other explanation.
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available.
Ive considered the points Mr As raised carefully. Mr A cant recall receiving any advice 
about the PPI, or discussing his application with Barclays before he sent it in to Barclays  
by post. So, I think  it unlikely that he was told by anyone to sign the form, without  further 
explanation. Based on what  Mr As said I think it more likely  he completed the 
application without  any input from Barclays staff.
I dont have enough to fairly conclude that the tick on the form was more likely than not 
placed on the form by someone other  than Mr A, and that he did not need or want PPI. 
Even if I were to accept  that the tick looked different, which its not clear  to me it does, 
there could  be some  other plausible explanation for this. Given  that this was a postal 
sale and Mr A completed the application himself, probably with no adviser input, I think  it 
more likely that he placed the tick in the box and that as a result Barclays  proceeded on 
the basis that Mr A wanted PPI. I can understand why Mr A doesnt remember  it this way 
now, after so much time. 
I think the form made it clear that PPI was an optional  and separate product and by 
placing a tick in the box, PPI was being  selected.  So, it looks  to me that PPI was added 
because Mr A selected it (even if he didnt mean  to) after Barclays had made it clear in 
the paperwork he didnt  have to have it. So, I cant fairly uphold Mr As complaint on this 
ground.
Barclays didnt advise  Mr A to take out the PPI. But, it still had to give him clear and fair 
information about the PPI so that he could make an informed decision about whether it 
was right for him and he wanted  to buy it. Barclays no longer has a copy of the policy 
Ref: DRN26640192terms and conditions that applied at the time of sale. So, Ive looked at policies like this 
from around the time of sale. I think the terms and conditions  were likely to be similar. 
Its possible the information Barclays  gave  Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it could have  been useful for him if something  went 
wrong. I say this because  he was eligible  to take out the policy and it looks  like it was 
affordable. Although he wouldve got some sick pay from work,  the policy wouldve paid 
out on top of his work benefits and potentially for longer. It wouldve also paid out if he 
was made  redundant. As Mr A said he had no other means of making his repayments,  I 
think the PPI couldve  provided him with a valuable  benefit  to help meet  his credit card 
repayments. It wouldve  allowed him to use his work benefits to meet  his other  living 
expenses at what might be a difficult time for him financially.  I cant  see that Mr A was 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, so I dont  think  having better 
information about these things wouldve put him off taking  out the policy.
Overall, I dont think better  information about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. So, it follows that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Ive thought about everything Mr As said - but these  points dont change my decision. For 
the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2664019