K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about the quality of a car supplied to her by Close Brothers  Limited under 
a conditional sale agreement.
background
In June 2018 Miss S entered into a conditional  sale agreement  with Close  Brothers for a 
used car. Shortly afterwards, Miss S complained to Close Brothers about a number of 
problems with the car. She also complained about  the customer service provided by Close 
Brothers.
Close Brothers had the car inspected on two separate occasions. It concluded there was 
nothing wrong  with the car that it was responsible for putting  right.
Dissatisfied Miss S came our service.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ss complaint.  She didnt recommend upholding it. In short, 
on balance, she concluded that the only things wrong with the car were caused  by wear and 
tear. In these circumstances  our investigator concluded she had no proper basis  to ask 
Close Brothers to take any further  action.
Close Brothers accepted  our investigators  recommendation, Miss S did not. In summary, 
Miss S told us the experts did not carry out the inspections to a professional standard.  She 
suggested we had ignored  the fact that the car had had safety recalls. She wanted the 
dealership to be held accountable. Miss S, again, listed  the faults with the car. Further, she 
told us in very clear  terms that she thought she had been treated unfairly. She also 
suggested we were not placing  proper  weight on what she was saying. Later on, Miss S let 
us know she has now sold the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive finished my review  of Miss Ss 
complaint. I dont uphold it. Please let me explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties, 
and in my own words. Im not going  to respond  to every single point made by all the parties  
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by me in doing  this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual  argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN29253692In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time.
The finance  agreement in this complaint, that is the conditional sale agreement,  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement. As such,  this service is able to consider complaints  
relating to it. Close Brothers  is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  
and responsible for a complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  contractual 
term that the quality  of the goods  is satisfactory.
The relevant  law says the quality of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account  any description of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. So it seems  likely that in a case 
involving a second-hand car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into 
account might include  things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles 
history and durability.   
In this case, the car supplied was used and it had a mileage of around  77.000  and had a 
cash price of around £5,000. In order to uphold  this complaint, I would have to be persuaded 
the car was not of satisfactory quality and so a breach of the contract  has taken place.
In these individual circumstances,  I think that a reasonable person would expect the level of 
quality should  be such that the car would have some wear and tear. This because the car is 
a used car, a reasonable person would not expect a car and every component to last 
forever.
Miss S listed out what she saw as the faults  with the car:
Red engine oil light comes on occasionally,
The back  seat was leaking.
Front windscreen was leaking 
Couldnt get the bonnet open  
The car was shaking  when first started.
The start button has a prolonged start.
The car was inspected twice by two different experts  from the same firm. The experts  were  
instructed to examine the car with particular  reference to the points that Miss S had 
complained about.  On both occasions  the experts said they did not find evidence of any of 
the faults Miss S had highlighted. Further, they concluded there  were  no faults with the car 
and that there was nothing about  the car that would lead them  to conclude that the car was 
not of satisfactory  quality  when supplied.
The expert on the first occasion noticed the bonnet catch needed lubrication but the expert 
was able to open the bonnet without  problem. The second expert who was asked to look 
specifically at whether  there was a leak that had impacted on the back seat, found  no 
evidence of a leak. What it did find though was there  was a slightly  musty smell which the 
expert said could indicate  there was water contamination. But the expert suggested this was 
most likely as a result  of wear and tear, the expert gave this explanation for saying  this.
Water leaks General: Water  leaks into vehicles  are notoriously difficult to identify and
Ref: DRN29253693rectify they can if present for a long period of time result in extensive  damage, as such
identifying the source  of water ingress  and rectifying such issues needs to be completed
as soon as possible. 
Leaks often are the result  of seal issues but often  require extensive rainfall for the condition 
to be identified. Providing the correct water angle on the vehicles body makes it very difficult  
to identify the source of the leak. Often today, when trying to investigate  these issues smoke  
machines are used  to try and identify  the ingress  point  and invaluable in identifying the 
source of water ingress.  
Clearly, seals  over a period can deteriorate and lose supportive pressure, misalignment in 
components and opening panels, sunroof seals and draining pipes can leak and body sealer 
issues due to vibration  our previous  impacts  can cause leaks  to develop sometimes in 
obscure and very difficult to access places.
However, most water leaks  on motor vehicles are not related to accident impact  and often  
rely to more generalised deterioration,  which develops  in service. 
Vehicles in normal service  use are exposed extensive vibration and movement
the body components which can lead to water ingress if the sealing material  fails.
Although most of these conditions develop over an extended period,  the water  ingress
may appear  to be sudden  because the environmental, atmospheric or general vehicle 
conditions are not right to provide a clear entry point.
The experts evidence  underlines that the car may have had water contamination problems 
due to a component, most likely a seal, in this second-hand car having  worn out over time. 
Miss S tells us that the second expert said there  are definite faults with the car. Even  if the 
expert did say this, it may have been  a reference to the possible water contamination. 
Further, a fault by itself, does not mean that the car was not of satisfactory quality.  Miss S 
sent us a lot of information about  what was wrong  with her car. Specifically, amongst other 
things, she provided  detailed information  about  the possible  leaks  in her car and the 
problems she experienced that seem related to dampness. Even if there was an unidentified 
leak, which I dont think there was, that could have been due to the erosion of the seal over 
time.
In summary,  taking all of the information I have into account, I think  it is likely that all of these 
issues were wear and tear issues such as might be reasonably  expected with a car of this 
age, price and mileage.  And I cant fairly and reasonably hold Close Brothers responsible for 
wear and tear issues.
I can see that Miss S didnt agree that the experts carried out their role with reasonable skill 
and care. She suggests that the second expert  criticised the first expert.  But I dont think that 
is likely  in the circumstances, given that the second expert  came  to the same conclusions  as 
the first one about  the absence of leaks. Further, I have no reason to doubt the qualifications 
of the experts.  So, I think I can safely rely on what both experts have said.
I looked at Miss Ss point about the safety recalls. She does not seem to be saying they, the 
safety recalls, demonstrate the car was not of satisfactory quality. Rather  she is upset, it 
seems, because she was not told about  them until late in the day. While I can understand 
why this caused her dissatisfaction, this is not something which I can take into account when 
Ref: DRN29253694assessing whether  or not I consider this car was of satisfactory quality at the time it was 
provided by Close Brothers. 
Miss S is clearly  disappointed that the dealership is not being  held to account. But it did not 
supply the car, Close Brothers did. I only have power to look at matters relating to the quality 
of the car against Close Brothers. 
For all of these reasons, I think I have no proper  basis to ask Close Brothers to take any 
further action.
I hope Miss S understands, that as I have  mentioned above, where issues  are in dispute, I 
have to decide on the balance of probabilities. What I am not saying however, even where I 
have not been persuaded  by her version  events,  is that I think  she is deliberately giving us 
an untrue  account  of what she remembers.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2925369