K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC only changed her address on two of the three 
products she has with it.
background
Mrs G contacted Lloyds  by phone and letter in March or April 2018  to tell it of her change  of 
address. It changed her address  on her current account and her credit card account. But it 
didnt change her address  on her car insurance. She didnt realise  this until the end of 
December 2018  when she received notification that her car insurance  had been  
automatically renewed. She raised a complaint  and for a number of reasons she was very 
unhappy about the way Lloyds dealt with it. And she thought  there was a data breach  if it 
had sent the car insurance renewal  to her old address.
Lloyds said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said itd told her on the phone it wouldnt update 
her address  with Lloyds  car insurance as that is handled by a third party and she would need 
to contact it herself. It apologised for some of its complaint handling issues and it paid her 
£30 compensation  for the inconvenience itd caused  her. 
Our investigator listened to the phone  call Mrs G had with Lloyds on 12 April 2018.  In that 
phone call she heard  the operator explain about  the position with her car insurance  and he 
heard Mrs G acknowledge  that her address  hadnt been changed with that insurance. And 
our investigator thought  Lloyds had acted reasonably  in the way itd dealt with the issues 
around its complaint  handling. She didnt  think there  had been a data breach, but she said if 
Mrs G was still concerned about the way Lloyds had handled hr data she could contact the 
Information Commissioners Office.  
Mrs G wasnt  happy with this. She said the investigator hadnt  mentioned  the letter  shed 
handed into the local branch. And she still thought there had been a data breach. She was 
also unhappy about her car insurance  renewal  process 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons.
Mrs Gs car insurance was with a third party so even though Mrs G wrote to Lloyds and 
phoned it asking  it to change the address  it couldnt  do that. And it explained that to her in 
the phone  call of 12 April 2018. I cant fairly  ask it to do more.  
Mrs G pointed out that shed handed a letter into her local branch.  And shed made two 
phone calls not one. But that doesnt  change my conclusion that on the 12 April Lloyds told 
her it couldnt change the address on her car insurance.
Shes unhappy about her car insurance  renewal process but as that is with a third party she 
will have to raise her concerns with that organisation. She cant understand that because 
she said she gets emails  from Lloyds about this insurance. And the direct debit goes to 
Lloyds. But we cant tell an organisation how it should structure its business. And Lloyds has 
explained that it arranges its car insurance policies through a separate company. And that is 
why she will have to make a separate complaint about the renewal process.    
Ref: DRN22731492I cant see theres been any data breach for the reasons  given by our investigator.  But if 
Mrs G still has concerns  about this she can contact  the Information  Commissioners Office.
I can see how strongly Mrs G feels about  Lloyds in dealing with her complaint. But I cant  tell 
Lloyds how it should deal with and handle complaints.  Its complaint handling is not, under 
our rules, what  is called  a regulated activity. If Mrs G wants to take her concerns about 
Lloyds complaint handling procedures  further she will need  to refer those concerns to the 
Financial Conduct  Authority.
I know Mrs G will be disappointed  with my decision and our limited  role but for the reasons 
Ive given I cant fairly find Lloyds has done anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2273149