K820x#14complaint
Mr L complained about how Admiral  Insurance Company Limited handled his claim under 
his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr L had a car accident, which  he felt wasnt his fault. His car was damaged and Admiral 
decided it wasnt economical to repair. So they paid Mr L what they said was its market  
value, less his policy excess  and less the salvage value of his car, which  he bought  back 
from Admiral.  
Mr L later complained that Admiral hadnt  valued  his car properly. He was also unhappy that 
Admiral admitted liability for the accident on his behalf. He said this meant  that he had to pay 
his excess. And he lost his chance  to pursue  the other driver to recover that as well as 
compensation for an injury he said the accident had caused. He also said that Admiral  gave 
him wrong  information  about his claim, and he had to keep chasing them.
Admiral upheld only some of his complaints. They stood by their decision on liability.  But 
they agreed that their communication had been  poor and that they hadnt paid Mr L the 
correct amount for his cars market value. So they paid him the balance of that, plus interest,  
and also offered him compensation  of £200.  Mr L didnt think that this reflected his loss or 
the time hed had to spend  on the matter.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought that 
Admiral hadnt acted unreasonably  about liability and that theyd compensated Mr L fairly for 
their mistake  about his cars value. But Mr L didnt agree and so his case has been passed 
to me to decide.
Mr L also complained  about the legal advisers  involved in his claim. But, as Admiral advised 
him, thats  something  which  Mr L has to take up with those advisers direct.  So I dont deal 
with that here. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Value of Mr Ls car 
When Admiral  decided  that his car wasnt economical to repair, they were required under his 
policy to pay him its market value. 
We dont decide  what the market value  of a car is; we merely consider whether or not the 
insurer has reached a fair and reasonable amount  having regard to the valuations in the 
motor trade  guides.  We think these  guides are a reliable  indication as to value as theyre 
based on nationwide research of likely car selling prices.
Admiral said theyd looked at the trade  guides and decided that the cars market value was 
£5,500. Some  time later,  Mr L questioned that amount. He felt they hadnt  paid him his cars 
true market  value. When Admiral looked at it again,  they realised theyd made a mistake.  
They had thought that they couldnt pay Mr L more  than he had bought the car for. 
Ref: DRN21920992But this wasnt correct.  So Admiral  agreed that they should have paid Mr L the guides top 
market value. This meant they paid him an extra £1,675, plus interest. 
Mr L was happy  with the total amount Admiral had paid him. But the second payment was 
some time later. So Mr L still felt that hed lost out because Admiral hadnt  paid him the full 
correct amount at the start. He said that if they had, he wouldnt have bought his old car 
back, because  hed have been able to buy a like-for-like replacement car at the time.  Now 
that Mr L had done  work on his old car, he didnt want  to give it up, but he felt that Admiral 
should compensate  him. However I think that Admiral have compensated Mr L adequately 
for this by paying  him interest on the balance  of the market value payment. And since then 
he has had the use of his old car and it will retain a value. So, on balance,  I dont think  that it 
would be fair to expect  Admiral to do more here.
Liability 
Mr L felt that the accident wasnt his fault.  He felt that Admiral  had miss-advised him about 
whether or not theyd settled his claim,  and his ability to pursue  a claim against the other 
driver. He then discovered that Admiral had already admitted liability and hadnt  told either 
Mr L or the legal advisers. Admiral apologised for this and offered Mr L compensation of 
£200. But he didnt  think that was enough  to reflect his time and expense. He was also 
unhappy about having to pay the £750 policy excess. He said that he wouldnt have been 
found at fault if Admiral  had investigated  the claim properly. 
But I think that Mr L does  have to pay the policy excess. Thats normal in any claim under a 
policy, regardless of fault, though it may be recoverable later if the insured  isnt at fault. 
When it comes  to liability, we dont decide  who is at fault for causing an accident, as this is 
the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this kind is simply to investigate 
whether Admiral have  acted fairly  and reasonably, and in line with their policys  terms and 
conditions when they made  their decision as regards who was responsible.  
As the adjudicator explained  to Mr L, his policy gives Admiral discretion  to settle his claim as 
they think fit. This is a common  term in motor insurance policies, and it applies whether the 
policyholder agrees with it or not. Insurers are entitled to make  a commercial  decision  about 
whether its reasonable for them  to contest a claim or better  for them to settle it.
Admiral decided to admit  liability for the accident, on behalf of Mr L. But they didnt  tell Mr L 
that at the time, or Mr Ls solicitors. When Admiral Mr L found  out he was upset, because  he 
was adamant  that the other driver was to blame.  
Admiral reviewed their liability decision,  and discovered that they had not challenged the 
other parties  accounts of the accident. They obtained a police report of the incident  and 
statement from the other driver and from witnesses. 
The other driver,  who had been  injured, could not remember what happened in the accident.  
But two independent people thought that Mr L had been  speeding  just before the accident,  
and one of them saw the accident. Mr L didnt agree with this, and suspected  that the 
witnesses werent independent,  but theres  nothing to support  that view.  He felt that his 
evidence, including  a map of the incident scene and photographs of skid marks on the road 
confirmed his view of events. But Admiral have to look at all the evidence overall.  
After Admiral reviewed their decision about liability, they apologised for not challenging the 
other accounts. They also obtained the legal advisers expert opinion on liability. 
Ref: DRN21920993The legal advisers said that on the available evidence,  there  were  no reasonable prospects 
of success and they wouldnt have been  able to pursue the third party on a non-fault basis. 
So, although  Admiral  accepted that their decision to admit liability had been a little 
premature, they said that they would  still have reached the same result.  The outcome of Mr 
Ls claim would have  been the same, even if Admiral had waited until later to admit liability.
I can see that Mr L feels that Admirals decision was wrong.  But I think that in all the 
circumstances Admiral  had obtained enough  evidence. They had then reviewed it and had 
taken legal advice  on it. I think  that they are entitled  to rely on that and so their decision on 
liability was not unreasonable. They offered  him £200 for their poor communication  with him, 
and I think that is fair in the circumstances. So I dont ask Admiral to do anything  else.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019. 
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2192099