K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Wescot Credit  Services Limited has made up documents in her name, 
and shared personal information with others without her consent.
background
Mrs B received an email  from Wescot with a form attached  to it containing information about 
her finances  and her health. She says she had never seen the form, never completed it, and 
never signed it. And she said shed never  given  authority for Wescot  or anyone to use the 
information.
She complained to Wescot. It said it had received the form from Mrs B in response  to a 
request for further information  following her proposal to offer a settlement for a debt. It said a 
full consent from was also completed by Mrs B. It said it had no reason to believe the 
information had not been provided by her.
Mrs B says this issue has caused her a great deal of stress.
She brought  her complaint to this service  as she felt that Wescot was not treating her 
complaint seriously.  Our investigator looked  into the complaint but did not uphold it. She 
found that the information provided was very specific  to Mrs B and her personal 
circumstances, and she hadnt seen any evidence to suggest that someone else had 
completed the form.
Mrs B replied, stating  that her signature was different  to the one on the form. Our 
investigator replied enclosing two documents that had been sent by Mrs B to her bank, 
NatWest. The investigator said that the handwriting and signature on these looked  the same  
as that on the Wescot  form.  This led her to believe that it was more  likely than not that Mrs B 
had completed the form. Mrs B replied that none  of these documents  were  from her.
She said that she writes her letters in capitals in red ink, and they are all stamped with a 
picture of a crocodile. She also said that Wescot could have copied the information from 
information that had been provided to it by her debt advisor. She insisted that none  of the 
documents were  completed by her and asked that an ombudsman look at his matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. I 
explain why below.
Mrs B is alleging that Wescot forged a document  with her personal details on it. This is a 
very serious  allegation,  so Mrs B needs sufficient evidence to prove  it to the required 
standard. The more serious the allegation,  the more  evidence required to discharge the 
usual civil burden  of proof, namely, balance of probabilities, that is, whats  more likely than 
not. If the allegation amounts to fraud   a criminal  offence  then the accuser  effectively 
needs to prove it beyond  reasonable  doubt, which is a high threshold.
I have reviewed the correspondence between  Mrs B and Wescot that it says led to the 
receipt of the disputed  form. This includes a letter from Mrs B to the original lender offering a 
settlement figure for her outstanding debt. I am satisfied that it is more likely  than not that 
Ref: DRN24945422this came from Mrs B as she has recently  agreed a settlement with that lender for the same  
debt. Wescot then sent her a request for up-to-date income and expenditure details and 
confirmation from a GP about her current medical  situation.
Wescot say that Mrs B replied reiterating  the offer, and providing information about her 
health issues. It says she provided details of her income and expenditure, and a fully 
completed consent form which was signed  and included her medical information. The 
declaration stated:
I understand that this will only be shared with the client  that Wescot  are managing 
this account on behalf of.
Mrs B is adamant that she never signed  the form, nor gave  permission for her medical 
situation to be shared.
I havent seen  any evidence to prove that Wescot  completed the form and I can see no 
logical reason why it would  do this. It entered into correspondence with Mrs B following her 
offer of a settlement  payment. The disputed document was received as part of that 
exchange of correspondence. And the information appears to me to match what Mrs B has 
told the original  lender.  Mrs B says that Wescot could have taken this information  from 
documents supplied to it by her debt advisor   but that is pure speculation, not persuasive 
evidence that it did this. So I cant fairly  say that Wescot forged the information on the form. 
On the contrary,  I think theres significant  doubt  that it did so. Its far more  likely that the 
information was supplied to Wescot by or on behalf of Mrs B.
Mrs B also said that the documents are not in her handwriting. But shes  produced no 
independent expert  evidence to support this assertion, e.g. a report  from a handwriting  
expert. So Ive had no option  but to look at other  forms and letters  we have received. Im 
satisfied that the writing  and the signatures  are similar to the disputed letter. Some  of these  
were supplied by Wescot and the writing, format and signature are consistent  with letters  
and forms sent directly to us by Mrs B. None  are written in red ink, in capitals, or have 
crocodile stamps on them. Accordingly, this contradiction between Mrs Bs submissions and 
documentary evidence  tends to undermine her allegations  and of course casts reasonable 
doubt over them.
Mrs B says that she didnt  give consent for the information to be shared. However, we cant  
resolve disputes without  access  to all relevant evidence  which  is why complainants are 
required to consent  to sharing personal  data,  including  with third parties, as a condition of 
using this service.
In any event, I said above that I am satisfied that the documents   including the signed 
consent form  were sent by Mrs B. So Im satisfied Wescot also had consent to share. And 
Im satisfied that it was entitled to share the information with the original lender  as it was 
acting on their behalf, and it was relevant  to the offer Mrs B had made.
Mrs B said that she has found  this very stressful, particularly because  she feels her 
complaint has not been taken seriously. I am sorry that she feels  that way and can only 
reassure her that this matter has been  thoroughly reviewed by me and by our investigator.  
Im aware that she has notified this to Action Fraud.  If she is still unhappy then she can raise 
this matter directly with the police. But I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me 
beyond reasonable doubt that Wescot  is guilty  of fraudulently forging documents.
Ref: DRN24945423On the contrary,  it appears that Wescot  fairly  relied on the information  it received, that it was 
more likely than not that Mrs B had completed the form, and that it was reasonable for it to 
share the information with the original  lender.  I wont be asking it to take any further action in 
relation to this matter.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2494542