K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  about  The Plan Group  Limiteds handling of his motor trade insurance 
policy.
background
Mr L took out a motor  trade insurance policy on 26 January 2018. The policy  was taken out 
over the phone with The Plan Group  who were  acting  as broker. The policy was underwritten 
by another company.
During the sales call when asked Mr L said he didnt have any motoring convictions, fixed  
penalty tickets  or licence  endorsements in the last five years. He also said he had five years 
no claims bonus (NCB) and that he didnt have any accidents or claims in the past five 
years. The premium was over £800.
In February 2018,  The Plan Group  discovered  that Mr L had a speeding offence  and a non-
fault claim in the past five years, and that his NCB was less than five years.  On discovery  of 
that information, the underwriter added an additional  premium  of over £200  which  Mr L was 
asked to pay.
Mr L complained and said he had given The Plan Group all the correct  information about his 
driving history. But The Plan Group  didnt  uphold his complaint.  Mr L didn't think  that was fair 
so he brought  his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He felt 
that The Plan Group had dealt with Mr L fairly. As Mr L didnt agree with our adjudicator,  the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr L, but Im not going to uphold his complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Mr Ls points carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if The Plan Group  have dealt with Mr L in 
a fair and reasonable way.
The premium was set by the underwriter and not by The Plan Group. But the important 
information necessary  for the underwriter  to set the premium was provided  to them  by The 
Plan Group.  So Mr L feels that The Plan Group are at fault for not giving the underwriter the 
correct details about his driving  history which he says he provided them.
The Plan Group have  provided me with a copy of the sales  call with Mr L. Ive listened to that 
call carefully. The call was a follow up from a previous call as The Plan Groups  call agent  
already had all the details  about the policy Mr L wanted. The call agent was running through 
the details and asking Mr L to confirm  them. Mr L was clearly asked if he had any motoring 
convictions, fixed penalty tickets or licence endorsements in the past five years  to which he 
answered no. He was asked to confirm if he had five years NCB to which  he said he had. 
He was also clearly asked if he had any accidents, claims  or losses in the past five years  to 
which he answered no. Later on during that same call the call agent clearly  ran through the 
same questions a second  time and Mr L again  gave the same  answers.  
Ref: DRN25488022Mr L told us that he had a previous call with The Plan Group where gave all the correct  
details. When we asked  The Plan Group if there  was a recording of that call we were told 
there wasnt. Mr L therefore feels there isnt enough evidence to say that he gave The Plan 
Group incorrect information. I think that if Mr L gave The Plan Group the correct  information 
in a previous call, when they called him to set up the policy  and they ran through the details  
they already had they would have  confirmed those details. So I think  that when Mr L spoke  
with The Plan Group  before the sales call he told them  that he didnt have  any motoring 
offences or claims in the past five years, and that his NCB was five years. In any event,  the 
sales call was after the call in which Mr L says he gave the correct details. As our adjudicator  
correctly said, the sales  call supersedes any previous calls.  And as Ive said above, Mr L 
was clearly asked the relevant questions twice  and on both occasions  he gave the same 
incorrect answers. I therefore dont think that The Plan Group did anything wrong as they 
only passed on to the underwriter the information  they were given by Mr L. Im therefore  not 
upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2548802