K820x#14complaint
Ms E has complained about  the lack of advice she received from her broker,  ATLANTA 1 
INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED (AIS), when she arranged insurance.  She complains that 
the broker left her underinsured.
background
Ms E made a claim to her insurer after a problem with the drains at her property.  The insurer 
said she wasnt fully insured. So it didnt pay her claim  in full.
Ms E thought the shortfall was AISs fault as she said it failed to question her about the 
rebuild cost and shed correctly given her property details.
AIS didnt agree. It said Ms E had bought her policy through a price comparison website. 
When Ms E had entered  her property details, the website  automatically filled in the field that 
asked about the rebuild  cost of her home. It said the website did advise that this was only an 
estimate and if she didnt insure  her property for its full rebuild cost,  any claim she made  
might not be paid in full.
Ms E brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold  it. She didnt think 
AIS was responsible  for the valuation Ms E had noted in her policy . She said AIS hadnt  
provided  any advice  to Ms E on the rebuild  cost.  And it had told her that if she didnt  insure  
her property  for the full rebuild  cost,  any claim  might  not be settled  in full.
As Ms E didnt agree,  the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies  can be sold on either an advised or a non-advised basis.  A non-advised 
sale means the broker isnt advising or recommending that the consumer buy the policy. Its 
simply providing information to the consumer and leaving them to decide  whether the policy 
is suitable to meet their needs.
In this case AIS told Ms E it wasnt giving her any advice about  the policy. It said:
The policy  you have  chosen to purchase is based  on the information you have provided,  we 
have not given you advice as to whether this product is suitable for meeting your specific  
demands and needs.  You must therefore  carefully read the policy  and other documentation, 
and particularly the section on exclusions and limitations, to determine whether this product 
is right for you.
The duty on the seller is to make sure the consumer is given  enough information that is 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they can make an informed  choice about  whether the 
policy is right for them. When policies are sold online, I look at the questions asked and the 
guidance given.  In this case the website asked:
What is the rebuild cost of your home?  
Ref: DRN29922992The guidance said: It is NOT the amount  you would  sell your property for, but the amount it 
would cost to rebuild it.
Using an industry information service the website estimated that the rebuild  cost of Ms Es 
property was £288,000. It listed some  points Ms E should take into account in estimating her 
rebuild amount. It also said:
While £288,000  is a reasonable estimate of the rebuilding cost of a good quality property, 
the cost of rebuilding a 16 room, 5 bedroomed  house can vary between  £165,000 for a 
smaller house of basic quality to £425,000 for a larger, excellent quality house.
It also said: In any event, you may wish to obtain professional advice to be more  certain 
about the rebuilding cost of your property.
I think Ms E was asked  a clear question and the guidance given was clear. I think  that it 
showed the sum insured  in respect  of the buildings was only a reasonable estimate and the 
actual cost of rebuilding  Ms Es home  could vary considerably within  a large  range. It also 
told Ms E that if she didnt  insure  her property for the full rebuilding  cost,  any claim she made 
might not be paid in full.
I appreciate Ms E says she was given  other  quotes  by the comparison website which  had 
adequate rebuilding cover and were based  on the same information. But I dont think that 
shows that AIS treated  her unfairly  or unreasonably. Thats because Im satisfied that she 
wasnt advised by AIS that the level of cover  was adequate for her needs. Ive seen that she 
was given clear and appropriate  guidance  at the time about the estimate  of the rebuilding  
cost. 
Im sorry that Ms Es claim wasnt paid in full, but I cant hold AIS responsible for that.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2992299