K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way Zurich Insurance  PLC proposes to settle  a claim for malicious 
damage under  his property investor's insurance policy.
background
Mr C let out a property consisting  of a take away restaurant  with a flat above. He made a 
claim to Zurich after his tenant  moved  out and he discovered a lot of damage had been 
caused to the property.
Zurich didn't accept  that all the damage was malicious. Where  it accepted  that damage 
was malicious, it said it would apply the policy excess of £250 for each separate incident.  
That meant it was hardly worth Mr C making a claim.
Mr C didn't think that was fair. He complained to this service.  Our investigator didn't uphold 
the complaint.  He thought it was reasonable of Zurich to say that some  of the damage 
claimed for to the shop  wasn't malicious  but appeared to have been  arisen  from 
unauthorised alterations carried  out by the tenant. He also felt Zurich  had acted fairly  in 
applying a separate excess  for each area of malicious damage that it did accept because in 
his view the damage was unlikely  to have happened  as part of one incident.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
An extract  from my provisional findings  is set out below:
In this case it's not disputed that a lot of damage  was caused by Mr C's tenants.  What I 
need to decide  is whether  it's more likely than not they caused that damage maliciously.
"Malicious damage" isn't defined in the policy.  In that case I feel a fair meaning is that it's 
damage caused deliberately with the intent to cause harm.  It's more than the tenant simply 
acting without any care or with neglect.  Carrying out alterations in breach of the tenancy  
agreement isn't necessarily malicious.
When Mr C let out the property to the tenant, he knew they'd have to make some changes  
to fit the ground  floor out as a takeaway  restaurant.  The most expensive  parts  of the claim 
relate to the demolition of a cold room  at the back of the premises,  removal  of a large mural 
to the side elevation and the removal of a commercial extraction system  which  comes 
through the flat roof followed by repairs to the relevant areas. It seems to me most likely 
that the cold room  and the extraction system were installed  by the tenant to allow it to trade 
from the premises as a takeaway  restaurant.  Mr C may well dislike the mural but again it 
seems to me likely  that the tenant  thought it a good idea from a business perspective. 
Another alteration was the installation of a false  wall which Mr C thinks  was put up so that 
material could be stored behind it as part of illegal activity on the part of the tenant.  I 
appreciate that the tenant should have obtained  Mr C's permission for these alterations 
which may well have  been refused but the fact that the tenant  failed to do so, doesn't mean  
they were done  maliciously to cause harm.  I think Zurich  acted  reasonably in saying that 
they didn't amount to malicious damage.
Other damage includes a window which has partly come off its hinges, broken letter boxes 
and a broken toilet. This damage  looks to me more like neglect or carelessness. There's  
no evidence  from the photos that the tenant  deliberately smashed or otherwise damaged  
these items.  Mr C says his tenant  was reckless and inconsiderate.  I agree. But 
Ref: DRN25743202unfortunately for him I'm not persuaded that the above damage was done  deliberately  with 
the intent to cause  him harm.
Zurich accepted that the following damage could  have  been caused maliciously:
graffiti to front roller shutter
broken wc seat in shop  toilet
back door key hole blocked with glue
locks  to front door and shutter, and flat door due to keys not 
having been returned
damaged door casing to first floor bedroom  door
missing internal  door and casing
damage to wall plaster  in 
the entrance hall
two damaged smoke alarms
broken shower operating handle
damage to internal door handle.
Zurich argues that it's entitled  to charge multiple excesses as there are various separate  
incidents of malicious  damage. Mr C's policy provides that the excess  should  be applied to 
each and every loss rather than each claim. If there were clear evidence  to show that the 
damage happened at different times, then I might say it would be fair and reasonable for 
Zurich to treat these  as separate incidents  and apply an excess to each. But in this case  
there's no evidence to indicate when the damage  was caused. Instead I think it's 
reasonable to look at the location of the damage  and to group all the damage to the shop 
and flat as two separate incidents  and apply one excess to each.
In response Mr C made the following points:
When installing the extractor fan the tenant cut corners in order  to save  money. Because  
he knew this would  damage the roof and other  parts  of the building, Mr C thought this 
should be classed  as malicious.
The tenant illegally erected a walk-in  fridge  over mains water stop taps. It may have 
benefited his business but Mr C thought at the same time it was malicious damage.
The entrance door had been  damaged to create  a store for illegal drugs.  He thought  most  
insurance policies  accept damage caused by the cultivation of illegal drugs on premises  
as malicious damage.
He disputed  that the damage to the window, letter  box and toilet  seat wasnt malicious.
Other damage hadnt been  mentioned  by Zurich  a scratch to the carpet and damp in the 
bathroom caused by an outside down pipe having been filled with building  materials 
which caused  it to overflow.
Just because  something might  have been done to improve the tenants business didnt 
mean it couldnt also be malicious damage.
Zurich said:
Mr C himself  had never claimed  all the damage was caused in one incident.
If there  was the same sort of damage  in various  rooms or a single room  had various sorts 
of malicious damage, it would accept that damage was probably caused in one incident.
Ref: DRN25743203Because there were different types  of damage  in multiple rooms,  it thought  it was likely 
each area of damage was a separate event.
Mr C had failed to take reasonable care of his property by not checking what  his tenant 
had done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For an act to be malicious I think it has to be shown  that a person acted out of spite rather 
than any other motive.  Mr Cs tenant  knew they were causing harm  to Mr Cs property when 
installing the extractor fan and walk-in fridge but just because  they were  cutting corners  
doesnt mean that their main motivation was to cause Mr C harm. So Im not persuaded that 
this damage was malicious.
I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that the tenant was cultivating or storing illegal drugs  
on the premises. So I think it was reasonable of Zurich not to treat the damage  to the flat 
entrance as malicious damage but rather as an unauthorised alteration.
If the property was damaged accidentally, through neglect or poor maintenance, I wouldnt 
usually consider this to be malicious. Sometimes  the nature of the damage means  its 
difficult to decide  whether  the damage was malicious or not. In the case  of the damage to 
the window hinges, letter box, toilet seat and carpet I dont think  its sufficiently clear  what 
was the intention of the person who caused  the damage.  So I think  it was reasonable for 
Zurich to say that Mr C hadnt  shown this damage was malicious.
Mr C has provided photos  showing that a bathroom wall is very damp. He may well be 
correct in saying  this has been caused by the outside down pipe having been  filled with 
rubble and other materials causing  it to overflow.  He removed the blockages. Unfortunately  
for Mr C the dampness is not malicious damage  in itself but a consequential  loss and that 
isnt covered by his policy regardless of what caused it. 
Zurich has attempted  to draw some conclusions as to when the malicious damage 
happened. But at the end of the day theres  no clear  evidence  to show that its right in its 
assumptions. In the absence of such clear  evidence I dont  think it was fair for Zurich to 
treat each item of malicious  damage as a separate claim and to apply an excess to each.  
On balance I remain of the view that in order to treat Mr C fairly Zurich should  group all the 
damage to the shop  and to the flat as two separate  incidents and apply one excess  to 
each.
When advising Mr C of its decision with regard to his claim Zurich didnt rely on the 
argument that Mr C had failed to take reasonable care of his property.  So I dont think its 
fair to raise  it at this late stage.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Zurich Insurance  PLC to deal with the claim in 
line with the above findings,  applying the £250 excess once in respect of malicious 
damage to Mr Cs shop and once in respect  of malicious damage to the flat.
Ref: DRN25743204Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 September  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2574320