K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc took a direct debit payment from his bank account 
three days earlier than expected.  This caused  him trouble and upset. 
background
Mr A has a bank account and credit card with Santander.  The payment for his credit card is 
taken out by direct debit  from his account every  month. 
A payment for the credit card was taken on 2 May 2018. Mr A was expecting it to be taken 
three days later on 5 May 2018. He says that, because of this, he didnt have enough money  
to feed his family. 
Mr A called Santander to complain. He was told that his April credit  card statement informed 
him that the payment would be taken on 2 May 2018. Mr A said that the payment was 
always taken on the 5th of the month so he didnt understand why it had been  taken earlier.  
He made  a formal  complaint.
Santander found that they hadnt done anything wrong. They pointed out that they had told 
Mr A on his statement  that the payment  would  be taken  on or after 2 May 2018.
Mr A wasnt  happy with this decision so he came  to us. 
Our investigator found that Santander had done  nothing wrong.  She said that the statement 
showed that the payment  would be taken on or after 5 May 2018. Also, when Mr A called 
Santander, he was told that they could refund the payment  taken on the condition that Mr A 
made the payment again within the next couple of days. 
Mr A didnt agree with this decision so it has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mr A wont be happy with my decision. I dont think  that Santander has done  
anything wrong. I will explain why. 
Mr A says that his payments are taken on the 5th of the month.  I can see from his previous 
statements that the payments arent  always taken  on the 5th of the month. The payment for 
February was taken on 2 February 2018 and the April payment was taken on 3 April 2018. 
But, it appears that the Santander app said that the May payment would be taken  on or after 
5 May 2018.  So, I can see why Mr A thought this might be what was going  to happen. The 
online app does advice  that the online statement  is also checked. The online statement said 
that the payment would be taken on 2 May 2018. 
When Mr A called Santander after his payment had been taken earlier than he expected, I 
think that Santander very helpfully  suggested that they pay the money  back  into his account 
and he could make  the payment again  a couple  of days later. 
Ref: DRN22383052So I think that, even  if Mr A was misled  by the Santander app, Santander made  a very 
practical suggestion on how to put things right for Mr A. Mr A decided not to accept their 
suggestion but I can see no reason why he would choose not to. I dont think  that Santander 
couldve done anymore.  
I think that Santander acted fairly and reasonably in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I wont be asking Santander UK Plc to do anything else.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2238305