K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
catalogue shopping account in 2006.  Mrs H says Studio Retail  Limited mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs H says that she had no idea about her PPI policy  and that it just started to appear  
on her statements. She says no one spoke  to her about it. Mrs H applied for her 
catalogue account with Studio over the internet  she didnt  take out PPI at this time. 
Studio has shown that PPI was added to her account about  a month later,  when she 
made her first order over the phone. Studio has also provided a copy of the call script its 
representatives wouldve used  at the time. This script shows  that the representative 
wouldve been prompted to present the policy as an optional  product, and gain proper 
consent for it to be added  to the account. While I cant  be certain how closely this script  
was followed,  I havent seen anything  to suggest that Studio did anything  differently 
when it sold the PPI to Mrs H  and I think its most  likely  Studio made  it clear  that Mrs H 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember  this as it was so long ago.
Studio  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Studio gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as I think she chose to take out the PPI - it looks  like she wanted  
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of  her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover. 
This means Studio doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Studio has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because:  
Studio  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because  Studio didnt tell Mrs H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Studio has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  from 6 April 2007  this is the date when Mrs Hs 
lending became regulated and we became able to look at a complaint about the credit. I 
think that offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN25678242Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said, but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Studio Retail Limited does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Studio Retail Limited  does  have to pay back to Mrs H any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums paid on or after 6 April 2007   I 
understand it has already done this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2567824