K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that First Central Insurance Management Limited  wrongly advised him that 
his motor insurance policy was in place.  Mr M was later prosecuted for driving without 
insurance. 
background
Mr M paid online for the policy to start in September 2017. He called First Central to make  
sure it was live. He called  again several  times as he hadnt got the policy documents. 
First Central didnt tell him the policy wasnt in place. In December 2017 Mr M was stopped 
by the police for driving without insurance. His car was impounded and he was told hed be 
prosecuted. First Central told Mr M that an error  on its system meant the policy hadnt 
started. It offered to refund the impound  charge, cover the cost of a taxi fare and pay Mr M 
£250 compensation. It also gave Mr M a letter of indemnity  to show the police and the court.
Mr Ms solicitors  asked  First Central to raise  the level of compensation, given the distress, 
embarrassment and inconvenience Mr M had faced  due to its error. They said hed had to 
make numerous calls to it and still hadnt  got a valid policy  number. They said hed also had 
to take time off work.  The solicitors said he was seriously worried about  being convicted, 
despite the letter of indemnity  and they thought that was quite possible.  
Mr M also asked  us to look at his complaint. In April 2018 First Central raised its offer of 
compensation to £500. Mr M thought it should also reimburse his solicitors fees, but 
First Central didnt agree. Mr M told us hed accept the proposed settlement. First Central 
paid him £500  plus the impound charge in June  2018. But Mr M was still worried  about  a 
possible conviction. After  further thought, he said First Centrals  offer wasnt  good  enough.  
He said he wanted  his solicitors fees to be covered. And he thought we should  keep  his 
case open until it was clear that he wouldnt  be prosecuted.
Mr M had told the court  in January 2018 that hed plead not guilty to the charge of driving  
without insurance  and wanted  a hearing. But in June  2018, he got a letter  from the court  to 
say hed been convicted, fined £811 and now had six penalty  points on his licence. 
One of our investigators  looked into the new developments. He found that Mr M hadnt  got 
the letter from the court giving a date for his hearing.  As it went  ahead  in his absence, the 
court didnt see the letter of indemnity from First Central. Mr M appealed  against his 
conviction at a later hearing. The prosecution withdrew the charge, so Mr Ms penalty points 
were removed and the fine hed paid was reimbursed some  time later.
The investigator thought that - given what had happened  since June 2018 - First Central  
should do more  than it had originally agreed to do. He said it should pay Mr Ms solicitors  
charges for the court hearing (but not for helping him with his complaint) plus interest. And it 
should pay interest on the fine hed had to pay. Mr M said hed lost several days work due to 
the situation. The investigator thought First Central  should compensate him for that. And he 
thought it should pay him a further  £500 for distress and inconvenience.  
Initially, First Central  said it didnt understand  why Mr M had to go to court, given its letter  of 
indemnity. It said it wasnt responsible for Mr M missing his first hearing, as that was out of 
its control. But the investigator said had it not been  for its error, Mr M wouldnt have been  in 
a position where  he had to defend  himself in court. 
First Central asked for an ombudsmans review  of the complaint, so it was passed to me.
Ref: DRN26017652 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think it should  be upheld.
First Central queried why Mr M had to attend court, given its letter of indemnity. I think the 
letter was something  for a court  to consider in its deliberations. But having a letter of 
indemnity doesnt  always  mean a consumer wont be prosecuted.  I dont think Mr M had any 
option but to agree to attend court once hed pleaded not guilty  to the charge.
First Central says it shouldnt be blamed for Mr M missing his first hearing and therefore 
being convicted. Mr M was prepared to attend  the hearing, armed  with the letter of indemnity 
from First Central.  But for whatever reason, the letter  informing him of the due date didnt 
arrive. Theres nothing  to show that Mr M was to blame for missing the hearing. But as a 
result of that he faced  financial consequences as well as huge further anxiety.
I think its fair to say that - but for First Centrals system error  - Mr M wouldnt have been 
stopped by the police in the first place. He wouldnt have faced a court hearing to defend 
himself. Had all gone well, the letter of indemnity may have meant Mr M wasnt  fined and 
didnt get points on his licence. But something went wrong during the process. I think its 
reasonable to hold First Central responsible for the fact that Mr M was prosecuted and had 
to appeal against his conviction.  Otherwise,  hed have to bear the financial consequences of 
what happened, although hes done  nothing wrong  at all. 
I think its fair to require First Central  to pay Mr Ms solicitors fees  plus interest  - for the 
court hearing. I can see why Mr M wouldnt have wanted to attend it without legal assistance. 
First Central didnt agree to pay for Mr Ms solicitors  charges as part of the initial settlement 
it proposed. Our investigator thought that was reasonable, and I agree. I think  theres a clear  
difference between  Mr M having legal help with court proceedings and having it when he 
was making a complaint to First Central. In my view legal help wasnt needed at that point.
Mr Ms fine was reimbursed by the court, but not for many weeks. As he shouldnt have had 
to pay it in the first place,  I think its fair to require First Central to pay interest on the sum
Mr M paid until the date he got the money back. 
First Central thought it was reasonable to pay Mr M £500 compensation as part of its initial 
settlement. That sum reflected the great  distress  and inconvenience Mr M had faced up to 
that point as a result  of its error. He was confused, embarrassed and upset to be stopped by 
the police  and wrongly accused of driving  without insurance. He had to make  plans to get 
home that night and into work the next day without a car. He had to arrange to collect his car 
from the impound - and in the meantime  he was inconvenienced by his lack of transport. On 
top of that, he had to face the huge  anxiety  that arose from waiting for a hearing date at 
court  knowing the letter of indemnity may not prevent him from being convicted.
I have to consider  what level of compensation would be fair and reasonable to reflect  what 
happened after the initial  settlement. Mr M had the shock  of being convicted.  Then  he had to 
deal with the fear of not being able to get the conviction off his record  until mid-July 2018. He 
then had to attend court, which is a stressful and unpleasant  experience for most people.
Mr M has described his experience as a long, distressing nightmare. I think  it must have 
been a huge shock and very upsetting for him to learn that hed been convicted.  Mr M was 
Ref: DRN26017653then further inconvenienced by having to deal with the courts to get the appeal started. 
Anticipating and then attending the hearing must  have been very difficult for him. Taking 
everything into account, I dont think its unreasonable to require First Central  to pay Mr M a 
further £500 compensation.
We asked Mr M about the taxi fare First Central  offered to reimburse. But he didnt get a 
receipt, so I think it was fair for it not to pay the bill. As Mr M wanted  to be compensated  for 
loss of earnings, we asked him for more details about that. He said he didnt get paid for two 
days holiday  as hed had to take those  days as annual leave because of the charge and the 
hearing. I think if Mr M can produce evidence of two days  lost earnings, First Central  should  
reimburse him for that, plus interest.      
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require First Central Insurance  
Management Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr M a further £500  for distress and inconvenience
Pay interest on the fine Mr M had to pay, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the 
date of payment  to the date he got the money back from the court
Pay Mr Ms solicitors  charges for the court hearing, plus interest  at the simple  yearly 
rate of 8%, from the date of payment to the date of settlement  
Subject to evidence  of lost earnings due to the charge / the hearing, reimburse Mr M 
for the sum he lost, plus interest at the simple  yearly rate of 8%, from the date of loss 
to the date of settlement
If First Central  thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest,  it should tell Mr M how much its taken  off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2601765