K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  The policy  
was sold by a different  business, but Santander  UK Plc (Santander) is now responsible  for 
the sale. To keep things  simple, I will refer to Santander as the seller throughout this 
decision.
Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy in 2007  at the same  time as taking out a further advance on 
their mortgage. Santander says they applied for the PPI policy over the phone.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr W for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £777 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ws 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £46.93 a month. 
At the time,  Mr W says he was employed as a production manager. But his mortgage  
application form from the time of sale shows he was self-employed  as an electrician. As that 
document is from the time of sale, I think its more likely to be right and he was self-
employed as an electrician. He has told us he was not entitled to any sick pay and didnt 
have any other means of repaying their mortgage should he be unable  to work. Mr W has 
told about two medical  conditions  he had diagnosed  many years  before  the sale. He has 
also told about some medical  problems  he experienced after the sale. 
Mrs W was not covered under the policy.  Their  mortgage application from the time of sale 
shows she was not working at the time. 
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in 2004 and 
Mr and Mrs W took out a further  advance  in 2007.  
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ws representative  says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ws representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN25597112claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr and Mrs W about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs W 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and 
The information Mr and Mrs W received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Mr and Mrs W arranged  a further  advance  on their mortgage after mortgage  lending became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  a regulated mortgage 
contract. That means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale took place  in 2007 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
Ref: DRN25597113regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
key questions
Ref: DRN25597114Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs W, I must then go on to consider  whether  and to what  extent  Mr and Mrs W 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs W 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs W know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Mr and Mrs W cant remember how this policy was sold to them. Santander says it sold the 
PPI during a telephone sale and I think thats  likely  to be right.  I say this because Ive seen a 
copy of a document called  high level needs  analysis  that Santander produced  when it sold 
the PPI. This records the interview type as phone interview . 
There isnt a recording of the call which I dont think is surprising given how long ago the 
policy was sold. But it does mean I have limited information about the sale,  so I have to 
decide what I think is more likely  based on the available evidence. 
Ive seen a telephone guidance script  which Santander says advisors were expected to 
follow when selling the PPI  and this shows the optional nature of the PPI should  have  been  
made clear, and the advisor was required  to get consent before adding  the PPI to their 
account. I think this guidance note likely reflects the nature of the discussions the advisor 
would have had with Mr and Mrs W. 
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage offer explicitly says they didnt need to buy any insurance with 
Santander. Although  they needed to buy buildings  insurance as part of the mortgage  offer  
even that didnt have to be bought with Santander. So, it doesnt look like the PPI was 
presented to them as a compulsory part of the mortgage. 
Santander says that the PPI wouldnt have been added  without  their consent  which is in 
line with the guidance note it has shown  us. The high-level needs analysis that Santander 
produced following the telephone call also records  that they wanted PPI. I also havent  seen  
any documentary evidence to the contrary. 
Ref: DRN25597115Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs W knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Both Santander and Mr and Mrs W agree that advice wasnt provided  during this sale. 
This means  Santander  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs W. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Mr and 
Mrs W to make an informed choice  about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs W were given a broad description  of what  
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr W 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs W agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think Santander gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ws. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ws representative  considers  to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
Ref: DRN25597116material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs W have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs W? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs W suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Santander didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
W. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs W suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether or not 
Mr and Mrs W would have still taken out the policy, had Santander done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs W say they would  not have taken it out and believe that I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs W had to weigh up in their own mind  the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr W being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs W chose  to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs W thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs W have  suffered  any loss 
or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs W knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, I havent seen sufficient  evidence that Santander told them the 
exact premium at the point they applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr 
and Mrs W would have been told the cost before the policy  started and they paid for the 
policy for a number of months. I also note that they were sent an insurance  schedule 
following the start of the policy which had the cost on there.  So if the costs were significantly 
at odd with their expectations  at the point  of sale, its possible they might  have raised  that 
with Santander  at the time, or reconsidered  their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs W would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the phone call in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr and Mrs W would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs 
Ws expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs W thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
Ref: DRN25597117The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and/or symptoms that Mr W 
knew about or ought to have known about  or he had consulted  a doctor about during 
the 12 months before the start date of the policy. This exclusion would not have 
applied once  Mr W had been  continuously  insured  under the accident  or sickness  
cover for 12 months. 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W 
was in certain types of employment contracts.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr W be unable to 
do his own job or any paid work which his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do. He should also not be doing any other  work. 
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs W pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude that 
the policy was not as good as they thought and they might  have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs W from 
taking out the policy.  
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr W was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr W says he suffered from two medical 
conditions at the time of sale and the policy might not have provided cover had he needed  
time off work because  of them, I dont think better information about  this exclusion would 
have put them off agreeing to it. I say this because Mr W hasnt told us he had any ongoing  
problems with the first condition once he recovered from it as a child.  And he hadnt  needed  
any significant time off work because of the second  one. So, I dont think he wouldve 
envisaged needing to make a claim because of them. The medical problems he experienced 
after the sale, were  not pre-existing so would  not have affected his ability to claim.  
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr W would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs W had known they could only claim for disability if Mr W was not only unable to 
do his job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he might reasonably be 
qualified for, it might  have  played into their thinking about what  they would do. And I accept it 
may have  given them pause for thought  although  given  their circumstances, and the 
limited other means they had to make their repayments if Mr W wasnt  working, on balance, I 
still think they would have been  interested in taking out the cover. I recognise that the policy  
also says Mr W should not be doing any other work.  But it seems unlikely he would have  
thought hed be able to make a successful claim if he was still working.
Ref: DRN25597118Santander may not have told Mr and Mrs W that any claim they made would be limited to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but they didnt have  any other  means  to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs W would still have thought a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr W be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs W would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr W was unable to work through  the accident, sickness or 
unemployment. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs W found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs W believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. Im not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs W in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken out 
Ref: DRN25597119the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Santander should pay Mr and Mrs W compensation, as that would put them  in a 
better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs W think Santander misrepresented  the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr and Mrs 
W, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2007 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs W and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Santander had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs W in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 April 2021.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2559711