K822xcomplaint
Mr M says that Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Sunny approved one open ended  credit account (loan 1), and 17 payday loans for Mr M
between December 2014 and April 2015.
Sunny agreed  that the open ended credit account wasnt  suitable for Mr M and agreed  to 
refund all interest and charges on that account.
Our adjudicator considered the remaining loans and thought that Sunny shouldnt  have 
continued to lend to Mr M from loan 6 onwards as he was reliant on this type of credit and 
essentially using the loans to supplement his income. The adjudicator thought  that by this 
point Sunny should have  realised that further  borrowing wasnt sustainable. Our adjudicator 
recommended that Sunny  put things right for Mr M by refunding all interest and charges 
incurred on loans 6 to 18 as well as the open  ended credit account. 
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion  and in particular said that it didnt think  Mr 
M was persistently relying on the credit.  It agreed that it could have  done  more and offered 
to refund all interest  and charges from loan 10 onwards as well as writing off the balance 
outstanding. Sunny confirmed that it had already  refunded  Mr M for loan 1.
Mr M didnt  accept that offer so the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN21455002the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr M could  sustainably repay his loans   not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. As Sunny has refunded Mr M all of the 
interest and charges incurred on loan 1 (the running credit agreement)  I havent considered 
this further save as part of Mr Ms overall borrowing pattern.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr M. It asked Mr M for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks  on Mr Ms credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Sunny to give Mr M loans 2 to 5 on the 
basis of the information he gave about  his income  and outgoings.  It was early in the lending  
relationship and so I think  the checks were enough  for Sunny to agree to lend. As Mr M 
hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans 2 to 5, 
I dont think that I need to say more about  them.
Sunny has already offered  to put things  right in line with the adjudicators recommendation 
for loans  10 to 18, so I will focus  on the loans  which remain  in dispute  loans six to nine.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Ms lending with Sunny to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Mr M.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I agree with the conclusions of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan six. I say this because:
when Mr M took out loan six, hed been  borrowing almost  continually and wasnt  making 
any inroads in to the amount that he owed. The loans were instalment loans, each with 
six month  terms. But Mr M sometimes repaid  his loans early and then took overlapping 
loans. This wasnt how instalment loans should usually  work. I think this pattern of 
lending shouldve  alerted Sunny to the likelihood that Mr M was having problems 
managing his money. 
Ref: DRN21455003I think that Mr M lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing  from loan six 
onwards. This is because:
these loans  had the effect of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended for short term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans,  combined with the total length of time Mr M had been  borrowing 
from Sunny was likely  to have had negative implications on his ability  to access  
mainstream credit. This kept Mr M in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint about loans six to 18.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund all interest  and charges that Mr M paid on loans 6 to 18;
add simple  interest  at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
write off any interest and charges not yet paid on the refunded loans;
apply the refund to any outstanding balance and pay the remaining amount to Mr M;
the number of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded  
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans six to 18 should be removed from 
Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2145500