K822xcomplaint
Ms W has a number  of complaints about a secured loan administered  by Link Mortgage 
Services Limited. The complaint has been  brought on her behalf by her sister, Ms M.  
The loan was originally  taken out with a regulated lender, which  later sold it to an 
unregulated lender. Link administers the loan on behalf of that lender. I will refer to Link 
throughout.
background 
I will set out the background briefly. Thats because the adjudicator  wrote  a detailed report  
dated 4 March 2019 I which she sets out the full background.  Both parties have had a copy 
of that report,  so there is no need  for me to repeat all the detail here. In July 2008 Ms W took 
out a secured loan. She borrowed £16,000  plus £6,144.20 for PPI. The loan is over a term of 
ten years  at an APR of 11.9%.  Total  monthly repayments (including  PPI) are £310.22. Not 
including PPI the repayment of the loan itself is £224.15. The loan is regulated under the 
consumer Credit Act 1974 and is secured on Ms Ws home.  
Unfortunately Ms W missed payments in 2012 and again in 2015. She discussed her 
situation with Link in July 2015 when Link agreed to move  the date of the direct  debit  to 
assist Ms W. She was also advised  that in case of further difficulty, she should contact Link 
to discuss other options, for example, payment breaks.
Regrettably after September 2015  Ms W didnt make payment for several months. In 
March 2016 a field agent reported that the property was occupied by tenants. It wasnt until 
July 2016 that Ms W contacted Link. She explained  she was due a lump sum and would 
clear the arrears.
Further payments  were missed in 2016 and 2017 and Link again  had difficulty making 
contact with Ms W.
The loan term was due to end in July 2018. But because of the arrears, there was still a 
balance outstanding. In April 2018  a field agent  spoke to Ms W, who explained  that she was 
in financial difficulty.
Ms W then contacted Link querying  the balance on the loan and disputing the fees that had 
been added. Shortly afterwards Ms W paid off the arrears, but still disputed the fees, 
charges and interest on the loan. This means  that the loan hasnt been repaid and theres an 
outstanding balance.
Through Ms M, Ms W complained to us about the loan.  Ms M raised the following matters:
Ms M is unhappy that Link has described  the secured loan as a mortgage;
She believes Ms W has been overcharged  interest because  there is nothing in the terms 
and conditions which allow interest to be added to any fees and charges incurred on the 
account;
Ms W has only missed two payments so Ms M believes fees and charges on the account 
are excessive  and that contact  from Link over this is aggressive and unnecessary;
Ms W was never told she had Payment Protection Insurance  (PPI) or that it was possible 
to defer  payment  on the account;
Link has failed to assist Ms W and has put pressure on her. Ms M thinks  Link should 
have addressed Ms Ws difficulties by extending the term of the loan.
Ref: DRN24204682An adjudicator looked at the complaint. She thought there were occasions where fees of £12 
per month had been added when Ms W had made payment in full. These were for January-
June 2017 inclusive and January-April 2018  inclusive. (Although  the adjudicator said this 
was eight charges,  it is in fact, ten.)
The adjudicator didnt think any other  part of the complaint should be upheld.
Ms W accepted the adjudicators findings,  but Link did not agree it needed to refund any 
fees. It said it though  it was fair that it charged  an arrears fee in months where, even though  
payment had been made, it had needed  to carry out work on the account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator, for largely the same  reasons.
Because Ms W accepted the adjudication,  the only outstanding issue  I need  to decide is the 
point Link disputes   which is whether or not Link is obliged  to refund the fees and charges 
the adjudicator  asked  it to. Link doesnt  think it should have to refund those fees.
Ive looked at the account history, and Ive also noted what Link has said about its 
application of fees and charges. I cant comment on what has happened  on any other  case  
we have considered,  only this specific case and Ms Ws individual circumstances.
Having looked  at the payment history, I am satisfied that Link should not have charged an 
arrears management  fee for the following months:
January, February,  March, April, May and June 2017; and
January, February,  March, April 2018.
The fees are £12 per month, and there are ten to be refunded, a total of £120.00.
Thats because payment was made during those months. In the circumstances, I dont think 
it is fair or reasonable  for Link to have applied  an arrears  management  fee at the same  time. 
Ive noted what  Link has said  that it was continuing to monitor  the account and so believes 
it should be allowed  to charge for this. But I dont  think this is fair in all the circumstances.
I am sorry  to note Ms W has experienced payment difficulties. If shed like some  free 
specialist debt advice,  StepChange, Citizens Advice or Shelter may be able to help. We can 
provide Ms W with contact details  for those  agencies, if shed like us to.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement I require  Link 
Mortgage Services Limited to refund the fees totalling £120 specified above and to rework 
the account to remove  any interest added to those  fees.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Ref: DRN24204683Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2420468