K822xComplaint
Mrs H has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased 
the cost of her pet insurance policy each  year.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mrs H took out, will continue  to cover  any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mrs H. It has accepted 
the information it gave Mrs H about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has offered to pay her £500  compensation for the trouble and upset shes  been caused 
as a result  of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances 
of Mrs Hs complaint.
Mrs H has told us shes not happy  with the offer RSA has made because she is unable to 
find alternative cover for her pets,  due to their age. And as she has had to cancel the RSA 
policy as it is now unaffordable, she has been left without cover.
 
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Mrs Hs policy was too high, she should have been charged  less for the 
policy or that she should be offered  a cheaper  policy in the future.
While Mrs Hs premium  has seen significant increases, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated  her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder  
in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to charge her a lower premium going  forwards.
I understand this situation has caused  Mrs H distress as she has told us she cant find an 
alternative policy. And I recognise  Mrs H has had to cancel the policy  due to its cost.
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mrs H the information she needed  to understand 
she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out. And I think its unlikely better information about the possible future costs of the policy 
would have resulted in Mrs H having continued cover for her pets at a fixed or capped 
premium  this type of policy  typically doesnt  exist. So it wouldnt be fair for me to put her in 
this position.
Ref: DRN24531072I understand Mrs H feels RSA should  have done more to reduce her premiums. But this isnt 
something it needed to do, although I can see RSA did offer to reduce cover for one of 
Mrs Hs pets that hadnt made a claim, and to back date the reduction to the most  recent 
renewal. I am unable  to say RSA should have offered a discount  on the policy  Mrs H held 
with it.
In my experience I think it would still be possible for Mrs H to find alternative  cover for her 
pets, even given their age, although  the policy  may not cover conditions Mrs Hs pets have 
had in the past. 
The £500  compensation  RSA has offered recognises that better  information  about the 
longer-term costs of the policy could have  avoided some of the upset  and distress  Mrs H has 
experienced. I think the award fairly compensates Mrs H for the trouble and upset shes 
been caused.
RSA has offered Mrs H a further  £100 compensation for the delays it has caused resolving 
her complaint.
My final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mrs H £500  compensation for not 
giving clear information about the policy, and an additional £100 for the delays it has caused 
is fair and reasonable. I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February  2020. 
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2453107