K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs P. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in October  2000  alongside a store  credit  
account. Mrs P was sold the PPI by phone, some time after the account was started.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs P has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why.
FICLs records  say that the PPI was sold by phone after the account started, and I think 
thats likely  to be right. There is no recording available of that call  which isnt surprising as 
this happened  about 20 years ago. From what we know about how FICL usually sold PPI by 
phone at that time, I think its representative would have anyway been told to make clear it 
was optional and to get the customers consent  before  adding  it to the account. And Mrs P 
hasnt told me anything to make  me think FICL didnt follow its usual process with her. So, 
based on what Ive seen, I think it likely the PPI was offered as a choice.
It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Ps 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs P to decide  whether  it was suitable.
However FICL did need to give Mrs P clear  and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  I dont know  how 
much detail the adviser actually gave on the phone.  So Ive thought about whether better 
information is likely to have made  a difference.  But in Mrs Ps circumstances at the time, 
even if shed been given all the necessary information, I dont think  its likely to have made a 
difference to her decision. I say this because its fairly likely that the PPI could have  paid out 
for longer than her full employer  sick pay lasted.  And it would have been in addition  to any 
employer sick pay or redundancy pay. And she could have kept any savings  in reserve for 
longer. Also it doesnt look like shed  have been  affected by any of the significant exclusions 
in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially  useful.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN21582632Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2158263