K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy that TSB Bank plc have recorded  late payments against his credit file.
background
In December 2018 Mr J says TSB didnt send him his usual monthly bill for his credit  card 
account. He says because of this he missed his regular monthly payment, and thats why 
TSB recorded a late payment on his credit  file in January  2019.
In complaining about this late payment, he says he also noticed there was a late payment 
recorded against him in August 2016,  so would  like that considered  as well.
When he complained  to TSB about  the January 2019  late payment, they initially said theyd 
made a mistake by not sending him his statement. They awarded him £150 compensation, 
and said his credit file wouldnt be affected.
But after his credit file still showed the late payment,  Mr J complained to us.
Our case handler investigated  his complaint, and felt that TSB didnt have to do anything 
more. TSB told us theyd  since discovered they did send the statement, so there was no 
bank error  on their part  something our case handler felt was likely. And whether Mr J 
received the statement or not, it was his responsibility to make his monthly payment to his 
credit card on time.  The case handler  felt this applied to both late payments  so didnt think  
TSB should remove the late entries on the credit reference file. But said TSB allowing Mr J 
to keep the £150 was a fair reflection  for the mistake they made in saying they hadnt sent 
the statement, and for now saying they wouldnt amend his credit file.
Mr J disagreed. He said that this isnt right, and he had a letter  from TSB to explain they had 
made a mistake so it should be fixed.  Ultimately  Mr J and our case  handler couldnt agree,  
so the complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
January 2019  entry
Mr J is right in that he has a letter from TSB explaining they were wrong, and would remove  
the adverse entry on his credit file for January 2019.  But after they sent that letter  to Mr J I 
can also see theyve told us this was a mistake  theyve since said they did send the credit 
card statement so wouldnt update Mr Js credit file. This is something our case  handler 
explained to Mr J.
Ive looked through all the evidence weve got, and I think its likely TSB did send the 
statement to Mr J. I say this because TSB have  given us internal  screenshots to show  it was 
produced. And TSB have  shown us an errors  log, where it wouldve been mentioned  if there 
was a wider problem with them sending out statements in December.  I dont know  and cant  
say why Mr Js statement didnt arrive,  but sometimes post doesnt always  arrive  at its 
destination  and a credit card statement not arriving wouldnt automatically  mean  a 
customer is entitled not to pay their bill, or any consequences flowing from that.
Ref: DRN29199932But regardless of whether the statement was sent by TSB  or received by Mr J  it was still 
his responsibility  to make the payment on time.  I say this because the terms of the account 
he signed up to say amongst other  things:
15.6 
You must pay us even  if you do not get your statement
Our case hander also felt Mr J could have  looked  at his statements online.  Mr J says he only 
used online banking during our investigations  to check  that it was working.  I agree with our 
case handler here though. However Mr J uses his online  banking,  it still remained an option  
for him to check whether  his statement  had been issued or not  and if it had how much  he 
needed to pay.
August 2016 entry
Mr J had internet banking at this time also, so it remained an option  for him to check  his 
account to make sure he made his payment on time. Looking at the statements sent to us 
from TSB I can see that Mr J didnt make  any payment towards his July 2016 statement  
which led to the late payment  being recorded  in August 2016.
Mr J hasnt made any substantive arguments  about whats happened  here,  and has just 
asked us to look into the late entry recorded.  Based  on the information I have I cant see that 
TSB have  done anything  wrong that led to Mr J not making his payment  or in recording the 
entry on his credit file.
summary
Taking all of the above into account I dont require TSB to remove  the late payments on 
Mr Js credit file for January 2019 or August 2016.  And Mr J has told us he accepts  the £150 
TSB offered. 
my final decision
It follows I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2919993