K821x#15complaint
Mr G is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited declined the claim he made under his private  
medical insurance policy.
background
Mr G held private medical insurance through his employers group scheme and made  a 
claim in May last year after suffering problems with his knee. BUPA paid for Mr G to see a 
consultant who decided he needed surgery. 
BUPA authorised  the surgery but subsequently  refused  to cover the costs of it and a follow-
up consultation  totalling £1,895 according to BUPAs claim advice letters. BUPA  said it had 
authorised the surgery in good faith but Mr Gs employer hadnt  paid the policy premium in 
June 2018 so his policy was lapsed retrospectively  on 30 June 2018,  before his surgery  took 
place. 
Our investigator thought BUPA had made a mistake when it authorised  the surgery and said 
it should cover the associated costs. But BUPA disagreed, so the case  has come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
investigator that BUPA should pay Mr Gs claim  Ill explain why.
As BUPA points out, Mr Gs membership booklet says:
We only pay for treatment that you receive, or the benefits that you are entitled to, while 
you are covered under the agreement and we only pay in accordance  with the 
agreement. We also only pay the benefits that applied to you on the date you received 
your treatment or the date that you became  entitled  to those benefits
It also says Mr Gs membership would automatically  end if his employer does  not pay 
subscriptions or any other payment due under the agreement for you or any other person.
There sees no dispute that Mr Gs employer didnt pay the premium  due in June 2018. So I 
think Mr Gs cover was fairly cancelled at that point. But I dont think the matter ends there.
Mr G first called BUPA to get authorisation for his surgery on 10 July 2018.  But BUPA told 
him it couldnt progress  the claim at that point because an admin  error meant it couldnt 
access his policy. BUPA told Mr G to contact his employers  HR team  to find out more. 
Mr Gs employer called BUPA a week later. BUPA seems to have assumed he was calling  
about the policy renewal and this was discussed  at some length. The employer then pointed 
out that a direct debit payment hadnt  gone  through but BUPA  said there were no 
outstanding payments. The renewal  was approved and BUPA said confirmation documents  
would be sent to the employer and all employees.  Later that same day Mr G called BUPA 
and his surgery was authorised.  No mention was made of any further admin or payment 
issues even after Mr G said hed had problems previously getting the authorisation code.
I cant see how Mr G would have had any idea that BUPA may not cover  his claim:
Ref: DRN25605822BUPA gave no indication of what  the original problem mightve  been.
BUPA referred Mr G to his employer for further  information about the problem. But when 
the employer called  and specifically queried  the missed payment he was told the account 
was in order. So I have  difficulty  understanding how the employer couldve made Mr G 
aware that there might be a problem with his claim.
When Mr G called a second  time the authorisation  code  was given without any warnings 
or caveats.
Following the call between BUPA and Mr Gs employer the policy  was set to renew and 
renewal documents  were  sent to Mr G, dated  17 July 2018  and received before his 
surgery took place,  confirming cover would continue for a further year.
BUPA says the reason  the missed premium  wasnt showing when Mr G called on 17 July 
was because payment  had been requested a second time the day before and it was 
expected to go through. But BUPA knew the payment  had been  missed on first request yet 
still didnt warn Mr G about this or that his surgery wouldnt be covered if the premium wasnt 
ultimately paid.
BUPA also says the second payment failed a couple of days  after it authorised the surgery.  
BUPA knew  it had given  the authorisation and knew Mr Gs surgery was going  to take place 
in 10 or so days. I appreciate BUPA says Mr Gs employer shouldve  told him about  the 
missed payment  the arrears letter it sent on 5 July 2018 asked it to do so. But Ive seen no 
evidence Mr Gs employer told him there  was an ongoing problem.  And I think  that may 
have been because the missed premium was requested again, the employer was assured 
there was no problem during the call on 17 July and no further arrears letters were sent until 
August 2018,  after Mr Gs surgery had taken place.   
So BUPA had an opportunity when Mr G called the second  time and again between 19 and 
30 July to let him know there was a chance it might not cover his claim, but it didnt do so.
Mr G says he cant afford to cover the costs of the surgery and subsequent consultation and 
I have no reason to doubt that. In the circumstances, I think if BUPA had told him there was 
a risk it wouldnt  cover the claim he would  have sought treatment for free through the NHS.  
Overall I think  its fair to tell BUPA to cover the costs Mr G incurred.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  BUPA Insurance  Limited to cover  
the costs of Mr Gs claim  that includes the surgery costs and follow-up consultation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2560582