K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mr P took out a regular premium PPI policy  in April 2001. This was added  to an existing 
store card he had and he paid a monthly  amount for the policy. Its been agreed  in this case 
that FICL,  as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, 
Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Both Mr P and FICL  agree the policy was sold during a telephone call a number of years  
after he took out the store card. 
During that telephone call, FICL should  have taken  reasonable steps to make  it clear to     
Mr P that the policy was optional. Unfortunately FICL hasnt been  able to provide any further 
information - such as a recording  of that telephone call or a copy  of the call script used at the 
time. So its not possible for me to know  exactly what was said at the time this policy was 
taken out. But based on what I do know of the sales process at the time and given the fact 
the PPI was added three years after he applied for the store card,  I think  Mr P would have  
understood the policy was optional when he chose to take it.
So on balance I think FICL made  it clear  that Mr P didnt  have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I understand why he cant remember  this.
FICL says advice wasnt given. So this meant it didnt have to check  the PPI was suitable for 
Mr P. But it did have  to make sure he got the information he needed  to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
Mr P says he had six months  full sick pay followed by three  months half sick pay but the 
policy wouldve paid out alongside any sick pay he had  and for longer. And it wouldve also 
covered him if he was made unemployed. It doesnt look like Mr P had any other means   
such as savings  to make his repayments.  So I think it would  have been  useful  for him if 
something went wrong. 
Ref: DRN23890592From everything Ive been given, it looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. And I dont think  Mr P 
has lost out from anything FICL might have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.  
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2389059