K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained to The Prudential Assurance  Company  Limited about the sale of his 
Local Government  Additional Voluntary Contributions  (LGAVC) pension plan. 
background
Mr J took out a LGAVC plan in 1999.  At the time,  he was employed and a member  of the 
Local Government  Pension Scheme (LGPS).  On joining the pension scheme, all members 
are given a scheme  booklet, which explains the different options available to them to 
increase their benefits.
The LGAVC application form, signed  by Mr J, indicates he wanted the LGAVC to increase 
his pension benefits. The LGAVC  plan was set up with a contribution level of 9% of Mr Js 
salary and was invested in Prudentials with-profits fund. The last contribution made  to the 
plan was in March 2006. 
He complained to Prudential  in 2018  that the LGAVC was mis-sold. Prudential  didnt  agree  
and Mr J brought his complaint to this service for an impartial review. Specifically, Mr J 
complained that:
at the time he wasnt invited to have a full review of his pension  options
he can only take the pension as an annuity   not a lump sum
he will be over 100 before he makes any profit out of the pension.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and concluded that Prudential hadnt done  
anything wrong. Mr J didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Mr J added that he was not being  given the same  options as other Prudential customers. He 
also said that the annuity offering was such a poor option that Prudential would profit on his 
death long before the annuity fund value was paid out. 
Prudential made  no further comment.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. I will address each point  in turn below. 
Ref: DRN26391392the plan was mis-sold because  he was not offered a full financial  review
Mr J says that at the time he took out the LGAVC  he wasnt  invited to have a full review  of 
his pension options. Ive no doubt that this is Mr Js honest recollection of what  was said to 
him at the time. But the sale took place over 20 years ago and I do need  to take account of 
the fact that memories do tend to fade with time.  And the documents  provided from the time 
of sale suggest  Mr J didnt  want a full financial review, even if it was offered. I say this 
because the signed declaration on the application states: 
Prudentials representative has clearly explained the two alternative methods available  
to me when considering the payment of additional voluntary contributions.  I confirm I 
have chosen the following method: 
Completion of a Personal Financial Review. 
Prudentials advice is based on the information I have given. If the information I have 
given is incorrect or incomplete, Prudential  may not be able to give me the best advice
Completion of the application form only. 
Because Prudential  has not completed  a Personal Financial Review,  I understand they 
are unable to give best advice.  Any advice  will relate only to the payment of additional 
contributions. 
The box next to the second option  Completion  of the application form only was ticked. I 
think this demonstrates that there  likely was discussion  around the methods  of review and 
Mr J was made aware that he had the option  to complete a full financial review. But he opted 
not to do so on this occasion.
This means  Prudential couldnt advise Mr J on any retirement product other than the 
payment of additional  voluntary contributions. But Prudential was required to make Mr J 
aware of the alternative option  he had for topping up his retirement provision, that being the 
LGPS in-house added years  option. I can see Mr J signed the declaration  immediately 
above a statement which says that hes been made aware  of the Added  Years option. So I 
think its most likely  that Mr J was made  aware that past added  years were  an alternative 
option for him to top up his retirement  provision. And if it hadnt been  explained,  I wouldve 
expected Mr J to query this, before  signing  the declaration.
the plan was mis-sold because  benefits  must  be taken as an annuity
At the time the LGAVC was sold, and up until the introduction of stakeholder pensions in 
2001, there were  only a limited number of options available for members of an occupational 
pension scheme  (OPS) to top up their retirement provision. All employers operating an OPS 
had to provide  an in-house AVC option.  These  were  generally defined contribution plans  
like the LGAVC. But some schemes, like the Local Government Pension Scheme, also 
offered its members a defined benefit  option  called added years. If an OPS member  didnt  
want to contribute  to the in-house  options, they could  take out a Free Standing  Additional 
Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan instead. 
I appreciate Mr J is unhappy he is not able to take benefits of his AVC as a lump  sum  
presumably under  the pension  freedom  rules  and feels  he is being treated differently than 
other Prudential customers. But this is because  the LGAVC is treated as part of the main 
LGPS. And even though the LGAVC  fund is held separately from the main scheme, Mr J 
does not have a separate  plan with Prudential. 
Ref: DRN26391393Instead, Prudential  operates the LGAVC  scheme  in conjunction with Mr Js main  LGPS. This 
would have been explained to him at the time he took out the plan. And Mr J signed the 
declaration which said in part I understand that the AVC arrangements are governed by the 
provisions of the Local  Government Pension  Regulations. He would have also received the 
Key Features document, a personal  quotation  and the members booklet, which would have 
also explained how the plan worked. Mr J signed the application confirming hed received 
these documents.  
 
The introduction of pension freedom rules  in 2015 mean that it is now permissible  for 
pension benefits  to be taken as a lump sum. But in 1999 when the plan was sold,  this was 
not an option and Mr J took out the LGAVC on this basis.  So I cant  agree that the plan was 
mis-sold for this reason.  
When Mr J comes to retire the value of his LGAVC  will be added to his main scheme 
benefits and 25% of the total value can be taken as tax-free cash.  If the amount of tax-free 
cash allowed is equal to or greater than the value of the LGAVC fund,  in theory, the whole 
amount of the LGAVC can be taken as tax-free cash. This is dependent on a number of 
factors and differentials, some  of which will only be known at the time Mr J chooses to retire.  
Prudential explained  if the main LGPS agrees, it would be possible  for Mr J to transfer  his 
LGAVC to another provider and exercise the options now available  under pension  freedoms. 
the plan was mis-sold because  he will be over 100 before  he makes any profit  from it
Mr J said that an annuity is bad value for money.  I have some  sympathy for Mr Js position 
here as I understand his disappointment  that his funds  will provide a much lower income 
now than his original  illustrations in 1999 projected. But I dont think Prudential has acted 
unfairly here  or that the pension was mis-sold.  
When Mr J started  the LGAVC  plan,  he was provided with illustrations showing what  his plan 
might be worth at retirement. These  figures  would have been  based on assumptions  set by 
the regulator at the time. Unfortunately, the financial market is not as robust as when the 
LGAVC was started, and annuity rates currently  being  offered are lower than what  was 
expected at the time. But, as with any market based  investment,  the amount Mr J would 
receive from the LGAVC was not guaranteed.  And having carefully  considered everything 
thats been provided, I think  Prudential made  Mr J aware of this at the time the LGAVC was 
sold.
An annuity  is purchased with a lump sum to provide a guaranteed  income for life. The 
amount of income  that can be purchased with a pension  fund depends  on a number of 
things, including: the size of the pension fund, the annuity rate, the type of annuity chosen  
(joint life or single) and the options  selected for the annuity. If tax-free cash  is taken before 
purchasing an annuity,  the annuity  offered will be based on the reduced fund value and so 
will likely be lower.  Most importantly, the annuity rate offered will be different for different 
people and will vary from pension provider to pension provider. So its possible that Mr J 
may be offered  a higher  annuity with another provider. Prudential  explained  to Mr J that he 
could take the funds  built up in the LGAVC and purchase an annuity elsewhere. This is 
referred to as taking  the Open Market Option  (OMO). Furthermore, as explained above, it 
may be possible for Mr J to take his entire LGAVC  to another  provider to make use of the 
pension freedom options.
Ref: DRN26391394my final decision
For the reason  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2639139