K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains a car supplied to her by Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc through  a 
conditional sale agreement wasnt  of satisfactory  quality. 
background
On 2 June 2018 Santander  supplied Mrs S with a car through  a conditional  sale agreement. 
It was four years old, had travelled  about 47,000 miles and cost about £9,000.
Mrs S says the car broke down on 11 June 2018. But the car corrected itself so no further 
action was taken.  On 21 June 2018 the car broke  down again. The car was taken to the 
dealership which had sold the car. It ran some  diagnostic  tests but couldnt find a fault.  The 
engineer said it was possible a diesel particulate filter (DPF) regeneration was required.   
On 25 June 2018 the car broke down again. While Mrs S waited for recovery  the car wasnt  
secured by the handbrake. It rolled into a barrier which caused damage to the front of the 
car. Around the same time Mrs S complained to Santander. She thought there  was 
something wrong with the car so she wanted  to swap it for another. Mrs Ss insurer arranged  
for repairs to be completed to the front of the car.
Over the following weeks the car was repaired by the insurer, Mrs S had a diagnostic test 
completed and Santander  had an independent inspection completed. No faults were 
identified. Mrs S got the car back on 22 August 2018. 
On 5 September 2018 it broke down again.  It was returned to the dealership which  did a 
forced DPF regeneration  because  it found  the DPF to be blocked. On 11 September  2018 a 
further independent inspection was carried out. This said, in summary, that there was a fault, 
most likely the result  of a DPF issue, but that it wouldnt have been present or developing  
when the car was supplied to Mrs S.
Santanders response to Mrs Ss complaint  was that it thought it had supplied a car of 
satisfactory quality, so it didnt think it needed to do anything more.  Mrs S didnt  think this 
was fair. She said shed  had problems with the car almost as soon as she got it. She wanted 
to reject the car and receive compensation for the additional costs shed incurred because of 
the problems shed had with it. She brought the complaint to our service.  
The investigator thought the complaint should  be upheld. This was because he didnt think  a 
reasonable person would expect this car to have  the problems it had within such  a short  time 
of getting it. So he didnt think Mrs S had been supplied with a car of satisfactory  quality. He 
recommended Santander  allow Mrs S to reject the car and pay her compensation for the 
costs shed incurred  and for the distress and inconvenience  shed been  caused. 
Mrs S accepted this. Santander didnt. It thought Mrs Ss driving habit  - short journeys which  
didnt allow for DPF regeneration  - had led to the problems with the car. It also thought  if the 
complaint was upheld it should be given the opportunity to repair the car before a rejection 
was considered. As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint was passed  to me to 
decide. I issued  a provisional decision saying  I thought the complaint should be upheld. I 
said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN24658892The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) implies  a term into the conditional sale 
agreement that the car must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier  and finance  
provider, Santander  is responsible for the quality of the car its provided  under the 
agreement. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable  person would expect, taking 
into account all of the relevant circumstances, such as the age, mileage and cash  
price of the car.  
The independent report carried  out on 11 September  2018  commented on how the 
dealership found the DPF to be blocked and completed a forced regeneration. 
Following this the independent  engineer  started the car and took it for a road test. 
This was abandoned because the engine started  to develop an abnormal knocking 
noise. When questioned about this he said the noise was consistent with a big end 
bearing failure and meant the car was unsafe to drive. In his opinion this was a result 
of an issue with the DPF. He further  said he didnt think there was an issue  with the 
DPF at the point of sale, or when he took the car for a road test in June 2018.
From what  the independent  engineer  has said Im satisfied there is a fault with the 
engine which means the car is unsafe to drive, and that the cause of the fault is most 
likely related to an issue  with the DPF. So what I need to decide  is whether this was 
a result of a problem present or developing at the point  of sale,  the result of normal  
wear and tear, or the result of Mrs S only making  short journeys which prevented  the 
DPF from regenerating. 
On 11 June 2018, within less than 10 days of getting  the car, Mrs S says the car 
broke down.  It corrected itself without  the intervention of an engineer so no fault was 
diagnosed. As I understand  it, a DPF warning light wasnt  showing. This breakdown 
in itself suggests to me something was amiss.  
10 days later, on 21 June 2018, the car broke  down again and was recovered to the 
dealership. Diagnostic  tests didnt identify any fault codes, such  as a DPF fault code. 
But the engineer did comment on a possible DPF regeneration being required.  Again, 
although no fault was identified, the breakdown in itself suggests to me something 
was amiss.   
A job sheet  for 24 May 2018  (about  a week before  Mrs S got the car) shows  it had 
46,973 miles on the odometer. The job sheet for when the dealership  looked  at the 
car on 21 June 2018 shows 47,611 miles on the odometer. So in the space of three 
weeks and less than 650 miles the car had broken down twice.  
There was a third breakdown (and an accident) a few days later,  on 25 June 2018. 
The insurer  undertook repairs and on 9 July 2018  Mrs S had a diagnostic test 
completed. This showed two fault codes, but as I understand it, these didnt relate  to 
the engine or the DPF. On 13 August 2018  Santander arranged for an independent 
inspection. At this point  the car had 47,851  miles  on the odometer,  so Mrs S had 
travelled 240 miles since the dealership  looked at the car on 21 June 2018.  The 
independent inspection involved a diagnostic test and a 556 miles road test. No faults 
were identified. But again, the breakdown in itself suggests to me something  was 
amiss.
I dont think the accident  caused  the engine or DPF problems. I say this because it 
hasnt been suggested that it did, and because my understanding is that the accident 
Ref: DRN24658893caused the car to need body work  repairs to the front, and didnt affect the engine  or 
DPF.
Mrs S got the car back on 22 August 2018.  The fourth and final breakdown occurred  
about two weeks  later, on 5 September 2018.  The recovery  service  noted the car 
was in limp mode and there was some fault somewhere in the stop start 
operation.  The car was recovered to the dealership which found the DPF to be 
blocked so it completed  a forced DPF regeneration. 
When the second independent inspection took place, on 11 September 2018, there 
were 48,677 miles on the odometer. This means  between the two independent 
inspections 826 miles were travelled, 556 miles by the independent  engineer and 260 
by Mrs S. So in total, Mrs S had use of the car for about five weeks  and covered 
1,150 miles before the car was unsafe to drive, experiencing four breakdowns. 
Given the time and mileage involved here I dont think  wear  and tear is likely to be 
the cause of the problems  with the engine and DPF.
I accept that problems with a DPF are often the result  of continuous short  journeys 
preventing regeneration.  A DPF issue (such as a blockage) wasnt,  although 
mentioned as a possibility, identified by the dealership  in June 2018. Nor was it 
identified by Mrs Ss diagnostic test in July 2018  or the independent engineer in 
August 2018.  The independent engineer, following the second road test in 
September 2018, didnt think there  was an issue with the DPF at the point of sale,  or 
when he did the road test in August 2018.  Nonetheless, the car did break  down three 
times, which from what the independent  engineer has said,  he likely wasnt  aware of. 
And if all that was required was a long drive to allow DPF regeneration, I would have 
thought the 556 road test in August  2018 would have accomplished  this. 
Following the August  2018 road test Mrs S travelled 270 miles. Ive asked her about 
her journeys  and shes provided a detailed account of them. These show she 
undertook a mix of journeys  in terms of distance and roadway (urban and a-
class/motorway) including a 23/24 mile journey  (each way) on 31 August 2018 on the 
motorway, and a 24 mile journey (each way) on 2 September 2018 on the motorway.  
I find her testimony here detailed and persuasive. 
Taking the above into account, as well as how soon the breakdowns  occurred, Im 
not persuaded Mrs Ss driving habit caused  a DPF issue  which led to an engine  
issue, which has meant the car is unsafe  to drive.   
Having discounted  wear and tear and Mrs Ss driving habit, I think  its most likely  Mrs 
S was supplied with a car which had an underlying problem present or developing at 
the time of sale. I think this presented  itself within about 10 days of getting the car 
and got progressively  worse to the point the car needs what  appear to be significant 
repairs. I dont think a reasonable  person would  expect to experience these sorts of 
issues with this car so soon after getting  it, or expect this car to be unsafe to drive 
after only about  five weeks worth of moderate use. It follows that I dont think  
Santander supplied  Mrs S with a car of satisfactory quality and that this complaint 
should be upheld.  
putting things  right
Ref: DRN24658894Santander has said if the complaint is upheld it wants the chance  to repair  the car. I 
dont think this is appropriate in the circumstances. Mrs Ss relationship with the 
dealership has broken  down, so I dont think a repair  there  would be suitable. And 
following the number  of breakdowns without a diagnosis I think Mrs S would - 
understandably - have  ongoing concerns about  reoccurrence. Im also mindful the 
repairs are likely to be substantial and so take time to complete. I think  a clean break  
by allowing Mrs S to reject the car is the fair and reasonable  way forward.  I think  
Santander should:
-take the car back at no cost to Mrs S, and ensure she isnt charged  for any 
storage costs;
-cancel the conditional sale agreement with nothing further owing by Mrs S, 
and remove any adverse information  from her credit file; and
-refund  the deposit she paid (£700) plus simple  interest at 8% a year from 
when it was paid until when its refunded.
If the car had been of satisfactory quality Mrs S would have made  monthly payments 
towards the conditional sale agreement  - about £400  a month. Because  of whats 
happened Mrs S hasnt had much  use of the car and had to make alternative  
arrangements - such as spending money on taxis to get her disabled  son to school 
and back, and on her daughter taking buses.  Santander did reimburse her for these 
costs up to 5 September 2018,  and it reimbursed the cost of the diagnostic  test she 
had completed.
Mrs S has sent me a breakdown of the costs  she says shes  incurred since 
5 September 2018. Overall, in part because  of changes  in personal circumstances 
(Mrs Ss son was awarded school transport),  these  are less than what  she would 
have paid to the conditional  agreement over the same period.  So Im satisfied if 
Santander refunds  the payments made  over this period Mrs S isnt financially worse  
off. I will however go on to consider the distress and inconvenience not having the 
car caused Mrs S.
I think Santander should refund some of her the payments  she made towards  the 
conditional sale agreement, with interest. To recognise that Mrs S had use of the car 
for about five weeks in total, had use of a courtesy  car for a period, and that 
Santander reimbursed  her costs up until 5 September 2018 (about  three  months into 
the agreement) I think this should be from the fourth payment onward. So I think  
Santander should:
-refund  the fourth payment Mrs S made to the conditional sale agreement, as 
well as any payments made  from then on, with simple interest at 8% a year 
from the date each was paid until the date each is refunded.
Mrs S has said she was supplied with a courtesy  car by the dealership  for a period of 
time, it broke  down,  and another was provided  by a third party  firm. She says she 
was asked by the third party firm to pay £60 towards  this second courtesy car. I think  
Santander should:
Ref: DRN24658895-refund  to Mrs S the £60 she paid towards the courtesy car, with simple 
interest at 8% a year from the date she paid it, to the date its refunded, on 
the condition of her providing proof  of payment.
Mrs S has explained in detail the effect this matter has had on herself and her family.  
I can only make an award for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs S, but 
Im satisfied that the upset and inconvenience  caused  to her son and daughter  have 
contributed to the distress shes felt by not having  use of a car. 
Shes told us about the need to rely on taxis and buses and the inconvenience this 
has caused and about the stress  shes been  under (exasperated by a longstanding  
mental health condition). Shes told us about the worry of keeping  up with payments  
towards the conditional sale agreement  while paying for taxis and buses at the same  
time and the embarrassment of having  to borrow money from family. Im also mindful 
the breakdown  was in June 2018, meaning  this has now been ongoing for the better 
part of a year. All told, I think  Mrs S has been caused considerable distress and 
inconvenience. I think Santander should:
-pay Mrs S £750 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience shes  been 
caused.  
Mrs S agreed with my provisional decision.  Santander  didnt  respond  by the deadline I set. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and in the absence  of 
disagreement from Mrs S or Santander,  I see no reason to change my mind.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc to:
1.take the car back at no cost to Mrs S, and ensure she isnt charged  for any storage 
costs;
2.cancel the conditional sale agreement with nothing further owing by Mrs S, and 
remove any adverse information  from her credit file; 
3.refund  the deposit she paid (£700) plus simple  interest* at 8% a year from when  it 
was paid until when  its refunded;
4.refund  the fourth payment Mrs S made to the conditional sale agreement, as well as 
any payments made from then on, with simple  interest*  at 8% a year from the date 
each was paid until the date each  is refunded;
5.refund  the £60 Mrs S paid towards the courtesy  car, with simple interest* at 8% a 
year from the date she paid it, to the date its refunded, on the condition  of her 
providing proof of payment; and
6.pay Mrs S £750 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience shes  been caused.  
Ref: DRN24658896Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc must  pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs S accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest* on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
*If Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mrs S how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs S a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2465889