K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax)  mis-sold them  a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy in February 1998.
background
The policy cost £50.60 each month and it covered Mr H only in the event he lost his job and 
was unemployed  or if he wasnt working  due to accident or sickness. And it wouldve 
provided a monthly  benefit of £1,000 for up to 12 months following a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think its likely  Halifax  made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out the MPPI 
and they chose  to purchase the policy  although  I can understand if they cant  
remember this given how long ago it was.
This is because I can see they both signed  a mortgage application form in January 1998  
which had a specific section in it about the MPPI. The heading of the MPPI section was 
entitled Accident,  Sickness and Unemployment Insurance.  And it invited Mr and 
Mrs H to sign a box if this type of cover  was something they wanted to have. 
Alternatively, they wouldve had the option to leave  this section  blank. In this particular 
case, they both signed  the box to confirm they would like to take advantage of 
Mortgage Repayments Insurance. 
There was also another  separate  form to fill out to get the MPPI set up on their account 
and Ive seen  a copy of this form as well. This form details the person to be insured, the 
level of cover required and the monthly  cost of the policy.  And I can see that Mr H 
signed this form in January 1998  as well.
So I think these things  are strong  evidence Mr and Mrs H asked for the MPPI and would 
have been able to see they had a choice. I think they both decided they wanted MPPI  
cover and agreed to purchase it. 
Halifax confirms that this was an advised sale, so it needed to take appropriate steps  to 
ensure that the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H. And for the reasons set out below I 
think it was suitable for them,  taking into account  the policy benefits, cost of cover and 
their broader financial  circumstances  at that time. And I dont think  its likely that they 
wouldve acted differently; and not taken out the policy, if theyd been  better  advised  and 
informed.
I say this because:
Ref: DRN28765802The policy covered  Mr H and given  his circumstances at the time of the sale, (and taking 
account of the policy conditions),  I am satisfied  he was eligible for the cover.
His circumstances do not suggest that he wouldve been  affected by any of the 
significant limitations  or exclusions  of the cover, such  as those relating to health 
conditions or unusual employment arrangements. He told us he was employed and in 
good health. So he could expect to benefit  from the full extent of the cover provided  by 
this policy.
Whilst Mr H received  some occupational  benefits; twelve months  sick pay, this does 
not automatically mean  that the policy was unsuitable.  This is because if he were 
unable to work,  the MPPI was intended  to remove  the additional  pressure of 
maintaining mortgage repayments,  at what would  likely be a difficult  time.  The 
mortgage was secured against  their home and so the consequences of them  not being 
able to keep up payments could have been  serious. In the event  of a successful claim, 
the cover they bought was payable  for up to 12 months and this wouldve been in 
addition to any other  means they already had in place at the time. 
Mr and Mrs H told us they had a good level of savings  but the policy would also have 
allowed them  to leave these savings for the purpose  that theyd  intended as well as 
other essential expenses at what  is likely  to be a difficult  time financially if Mr H lost his 
job.
So although  I cant say why Mr and Mrs H decided to buy this policy,  I dont think  Halifax 
recommending it to them was unreasonable. I think the policy  was suitable.
I dont know for certain how the costs of the policy were explained during the conversation 
with the Halifax  sales adviser. The policy provided a monthly benefit  at a cost of around £50 
per month. And it seems to me that someone  in their circumstances might have concluded 
that the policy provided valuable cover at a very reasonable price. And in the event that they 
no longer wanted  to have the benefit of the cover,  Mr and Mrs H couldve cancelled the 
policy at any time without penalty.
Summary
So, having  considered all the evidence  carefully,  although I accept there may well have been 
some failings in how the policy was sold, I dont  think  Mr and Mrs H would have decided 
against taking  it out if they had been better informed. It seems  more likely to me that they 
had some interest in protecting  their mortgage  repayments and chose to go ahead  with the 
policy. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint against 
Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2876580