K820x#14Complaint
Mr D complains that Advantage Finance  Ltd refused to let him reject a faulty  car.
Background
In January 2018 Mr D bought a second  hand car costing £2,810 funded  by a hire purchase 
agreement with Advantage.  It was some nine years  old and had done 72,727 miles. Mr D 
took the car for its MOT in May 2018  and it failed. He complained to Advantage and sent a 
diagnostic report.  Advantage said it wanted an independent report which  it commissioned 
and paid for.
The independent inspector concluded: that the vehicle would have been considered to have 
been fit for purpose  at the time of its purchase  and of a satisfactory standard. Although there 
is an underlying  issue/s with the vehicle  these are the result of the vehicles natural wear and 
tear through general usage, only developing into an issue that requires rectification after 
purchase.
Advantage rejected Mr Ds complaint  so he brought the matter to this service where it was 
considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.  She said it was 
unfortunate that the problems happened  shortly after acquisition,  but the expert report 
deemed them to be due to wear  and tear. She said that unless Mr D could supply evidence 
which showed the report was wrong and the faults  had been  present at the point of sale she 
felt she had to rely on the independent report.
She noted Advantage had offered to explore  amending the monthly  payments to help Mr D 
pay for the repair and she suggested Mr D speak  to them. Mr D didnt agree with this 
conclusion and asked  that the matter be considered by an ombudsman. He hasnt supplied 
any further information.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Advantage is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Ref: DRN24874672Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I can appreciate Mr Ds position, that his car failed  a MOT test a few months after getting  the 
car and after he had driven  it some 2,700  miles and therefore it must  have  been  faulty  when 
he acquired it. However, I have to be satisfied that the car wasnt  fit for purpose  at the point 
of sale and I need some evidence  to allow me to reach that conclusion. In essence  I am 
reliant on the independent report carried out by an independent expert. 
He concluded  that there  was a problem  with the car, but he thought  it was due to wear and 
tear and not something which had been present at the time Mr D acquired it. I have looked at 
the cars  MOT history  and see that the car was last tested  on 7 August 2018  and had done 
76,036 miles at that point. That suggests  Mr D had done over 3,000  miles in it. That 
suggests it was usable  despite the later problems. 
The report  says that the breaching of the cylinder  head gasket  is common  and a product of 
age related wear  and tear. So while the fault develops over a period  time it doesnt mean 
that it was present at the time of the sale. Therefore I am unable  conclude that the car was 
faulty when Mr D acquired it and as such  I cannot  uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision 
before 22 February  2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2487467