K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined their request for an extension  
to the term of their interest only mortgage  and referred the account to solicitors.
background
Mr and Mrs S have  an interest only mortgage with Barclays. The mortgage term ended in 
July 2014, at which time the capital balance of just over £600,000 became payable. But the 
term was extended  for a year,  with the balance then falling  due in July 2015. Its remained 
outstanding since  then.
Mr and Mrs S have  been in discussions with Barclays about a way forward  since  the term 
ended, but no resolution  has been agreed. Theyve made efforts  to sell the property   which  
they say was the intended repayment  method  but havent been able to agree a sale.
At issue  here, Mr and Mrs S asked Barclays for an extension to the mortgage  term in July 
2017. They  also asked  that Barclays consider agreeing a reduced sum in settlement of the 
debt. 
Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs S in November 2017 to say that it had declined  their 
proposals. It said it didnt offer indefinite mortgage terms and had already exhausted  the 
amount of time it could offer Mr and Mrs S to sell the property.  It said it didnt consider 
reduced settlement  offers and that Mr and Mrs S had declined to pursue  its Assisted  Sale 
Scheme.
After the account  was subsequently referred  to solicitors, Mr and Mrs S complained.  They 
didnt think Barclays had done enough to help them, including  responding to their proposals, 
before taking this course of action.
Barclays sent its final response to Mr and Mrs S in July 2018.  It said it had responded to Mr 
and Mrs Ss proposals and explained  why they werent acceptable. There  were further notes 
of discussions between  Barclays  and Mr and Mrs S, in which  it had tried to assist further with 
next steps. With no resolution, the matter was now with the banks litigation department.
Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy, so they referred their concerns to us. Our investigator said 
the bank wasnt  required to agree Mr and Mrs Ss proposals or that it was unreasonable  to 
decline the request  for an indefinite term extension. With the mortgage  at an end, Barclays 
was entitled to recover the balance   but thought it had nevertheless given Mr and Mrs S a 
reasonable amount of additional time to sell the property  and explore  alternative options. 
With those avenues exhausted, he didnt think it was wrong for the bank to have referred the 
matter to its solicitors.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  accept our investigators  view. They didnt  agree  that Barclays had 
explored all reasonable alternatives and noted  by way of example that the terms of the 
banks Assisted Sale Scheme were unacceptable. They didnt think their health  concerns 
had been taken into account and that their ownership of other buy-to-let properties was 
unreasonably being factored into the decision. They also raised concerns about the sale of 
the mortgage at the outset and said that the transaction  should  be examined in detail.
So with no resolution to the matter,  it was passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN21958882my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so  and while Im sorry to disappoint  Mr and Mrs S as I appreciate the difficult 
position they find themselves in  Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and 
for largely  the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Id expect Barclays to give fair consideration to Mr and Mrs Ss request  for an extended term 
and assess their individual circumstances to see what  help it can offer.  I can see from the 
notes of activity on the account and subsequent correspondence that it did that here. It took 
details of Mr and Mrs Ss income  and expenditure, as well as medical evidence in light of the 
health concerns  theyve  pointed to, and referred  this to its dedicated review panel.   And  it 
communicated its decision to decline it, with its reasons, in writing to Mr and Mrs S as Id 
expect it to have  done.
The initial stumbling block here is that Barclays dont offer indefinite  mortgage  terms. In fact, 
such terms are quite  rare across the market. There are legitimate reasons  for this: binding 
the parties to an indefinite  arrangement  comes  with a number of risks as to the ability  of both 
to maintain their obligations for an undefined period of time. Such arrangements typically  
operate in a very different way to a conventional mortgage, like Mr and Mrs Ss.
Mr and Mrs S would,  I believe, suggest  that they dont necessarily require an indefinite  
extension; just more time (I note their request was for a more substantial period, with a 
preference for an indefinite period). So Ive thought about whether Barclays stance is fair. 
But I think it has already  shown a reasonable level of forbearance  given that the mortgage  
originally expired in 2014, after which time it gave  a further years extension. Still further time 
has then been  allowed   albeit without a formal  or contractual extension  while  discussions 
have remained ongoing and Mr and Mrs Ss various  proposals have been considered.
In situations like this, lenders  do have some flexibility to set aside their usual affordability  
assessment if a term extension would  otherwise  be in a borrowers best interests.  But its 
hard to see how extending the term by any further amount of time would be in Mr and 
Mrs Ss best interests, when theres nothing  to suggest that theyll  be in a different position  at 
some point in the future. Theyd still need to sell the property at some point to repay the 
balance they owe. Postponing  that runs both a risk of the property value (and therefore  the 
equity they have access to) decreasing,  while also meaning they have to continue to fund 
interest payments  (which could also increase over time too).
I appreciate what Mr and Mrs S have told us about  their health concerns and Ive not treated 
that lightly. I dont  think  theres anything to suggest  that the bank did, either. But as I think an 
extension would simply be postponing the situation theyre currently  dealing  with until later in 
life, I dont think that would be a reason to grant  it considering the broader picture outlined 
above. 
Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs S have  said about their buy-to-let property portfolio. 
But again,  accepting  their comments that there is no equity in those properties doesnt  lead 
me to a different conclusion in view of the considerations Ive outlined  above.
Ref: DRN21958883Looking more broadly at whether it was reasonable for Barclays  to pass  the matter to its 
solicitors, given what Ive said about the decision to decline the term extension I cant  see 
that its done anything wrong here.  Its allowed Mr and Mrs S some considerable additional 
time to facilitate a sale and explore  what options they might have elsewhere. Its also offered 
to assist with a sale of the property. I note that Mr and Mrs S found the terms of that 
unreasonable, but that dissatisfaction was dealt with by way of a separate complaint that 
cannot be revisited here. So while  I do appreciate the distress that prospective legal action 
will doubtless have caused  Mr and Mrs S, I cant say that this is down to something that 
Barclays has done wrong. 
Lastly, I note that Mr and Mrs S have also raised concerns about the sale of the mortgage.  
But as our investigator explained,  those  issues werent raised with Barclays within this 
complaint and would therefore need  to be raised separately.  Mr and Mrs S can do this 
through our service, so they should  let our investigator know  if this is something  theyd  like 
us to assist with.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 December 2019.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2195888