K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that esure Insurance Limited didnt pay him enough  for his written-off car 
when he made a claim on his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr Gs car was damaged  in a non-fault accident. As esure decided  it should be written-off, 
under the policy  Mr G was entitled  to the cars  pre-accident market  value. esure  used the 
valuations from three  of the national trade  guides  to find what  the market value was. Based 
on the guides, it said his car was worth £1,900. 
As esures  engineer found significant pre-accident damage to the car, it deducted £900 from 
the settlement  sum, so Mr G was offered £1,000. He believed  the car was worth £3,000, 
given that hed spent a lot of money on it during  the previous six months.  He said hed be 
prepared to accept  between £1,500 and £2,000 for it. He didnt accept that the pre-accident 
damage esure had referred to was present. He later sent photos of the car to us as proof.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Gs complaint. He checked four of the trade guides, 
and said the average valuation  was £1,828.50.  So he thought the valuation esure had come 
up with was fair. He also thought the deduction  of £900 for pre-existing damage  to the car 
was fair, given the corrosion and other damage shown in the engineers photos. He didnt 
think Mr Gs photos showed  clear enough details  of the car. And they were  undated.
As Mr G didnt  accept the investigators view, it was passed to me for review.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We think the best way to establish a cars likely market value is to look at trade guide 
valuations, as theyre based on extensive  national research of likely selling prices.  We dont  
give much  weight to adverts. They reflect asking prices and are open  to negotiation. Mr G 
may well have seen  adverts for cars similar to his at higher prices. But its unlikely they 
would have sold for the asking price. And there  are often differences between  what seem  to 
be similar cars that will affect  their selling price. 
The valuations esure found were similar  to those found by the investigator. So I think its fair 
to say that esures initial valuation of £1,900 was reasonable.  I think its fair for an insurer to 
deduct a sum from the settlement amount it if it can show  why thats appropriate. In this 
case, I think esure has shown that the damage to Mr Gs car was much more than the 
standard wear  and tear that would be expected on a car of its age. 
esures engineer  noted that the car was in very poor condition. In particular, it had damage  
to the roof panel, and one of the rear lamps, plus heavy corrosion to the front wings and a 
rear wing. I think all of the damage can be seen on the engineers photos  and I agree with 
the investigator that Mr Gs photos  arent  helpful.  
esure has provided evidence of the likely cost of repairing the cars pre-existing damage to 
an acceptable standard. It thinks that would cost almost  £2,000.  We usually say that its fair 
to halve the likely sum pre-accident  repairs would  cost.  As esure  deducted £900 from its 
initial valuation, I think it acted reasonably.  
Ref: DRN28620452Mr G has shown that he spent around  £1,000 on the car since July 2018.  He said he could 
show that he spent  a further £500 on it. But the receipts  Mr G gave us show  the money  was 
spent on vital repairs to the car. Some were after an MOT check in 2018. Mr Gs required to 
keep the car in good repair, so those  costs dont affect its pre-accident  value.  
I know Mr G wont  be happy with my decision. From  his point of view,  hes lost out as the 
result of an accident that wasnt  his fault. But as I think esure acted reasonably  in dealing 
with Mr Gs claim, I cant uphold his complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2862045