K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Skipton Building Society  mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2003.  They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy. The policy only covered Mr D. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint because:
On the paperwork  that was completed  at the time of sale, I think that the PPI was 
presented as optional to the mortgage.  On Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage  application, 
there were 3 options for PPI. There was a Skipton  Assured  cover  required - if PPI 
was being taken, there was another option  that said Cover understood but not 
required, and there was a third option, Cover arranged elsewhere. Theres  a tick 
next to the option  to take PPI.

Ive also seen a separate  Insurance Application form.  On this form its been 
handwritten next to House & Contents insurance;  + 6 mths free ASU. Mr Ds name  
has been written next to the option for who will be covered by the PPI and both       
Mr and Mrs D have signed  the overall insurance application form to confirm  what 
they were taking out. This document was signed on 15 May 2003.
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage offer dated  28 May 2003. This document outlines 
that the PPI is free for the first 6 months on the condition of keeping  Skipton House 
and Contents  or Homeplan insurance in place for 12 months.  This letter  also says 
At the end of the qualifying 6 months  period, one twelfth of the annual  premium is 
included in the monthly mortgage payment quoted and you will be advised of your 
revised monthly mortgage subscriptions. 
I dont know whether or not Mr and Mrs D were advised as described by Skipton.    
But I can safely say that the increased  monthly  repayment would  have appeared on 
their mortgage statements. So I think that they would have questioned this with 
Skipton after the 6 months free period if they didnt  wish to keep PPI. The same 
document also refers  to the option  of cancelling the PPI or other  insurances,  but 
briefly describes the penalty (cost) that would have to be paid. 
So, on balance I think that its more likely than not that Skipton made  Mr and Mrs D 
aware that they had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it. 
Ref: DRN20420812Skipton recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, and it seems to have been right for     
Mr D based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The PPI policy would  
have paid out for up to 12 months per accident  or sickness claim, which is for longer 
than Mr D would have  received  full sick pay for. 
I think Skipton couldve explained  the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it 
had, I still think that Mr and Mrs D would have bought it. 
Its possible Skipton didnt point out the main  things  the policy didnt cover.  But Mr D 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ds comments, but these points  dont change  my 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2042081