K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies  alongside two loans in 2002.  
background and summary to complaint
I set out the background  to each loan below: 
Loan 1 
In March 2002, Mr and Mrs B took out a £20,000 loan for home improvements that was 
secured on their home.  They applied for the loan in a Halifax branch and at the same time, 
they were sold a PPI policy.  The PPI covered  Mr B only. 
The loan was repayable over a period of 19 years. The monthly loan repayment was 
£142.74 with the PPI costing an additional  £14.81 making the total monthly repayment 
£157.55. The policy didnt  attract  interest and could be cancelled  without penalty by either 
party by providing  written notice. If Halifax wished to cancel the policy,  it had to give Mr and 
Mrs B 30 days notice.  
Mr B would have been covered for life, accident,  sickness and unemployment, subject to the 
policys exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay the monthly loan repayment for up to 
60 months in the event  of a successful disability  claim  and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
The loan was repaid in August 2002  when Mr and Mrs B applied for further borrowing with 
Halifax and the PPI was also cancelled.  
Loan 2 
As I said above, Mr and Mrs B applied for a further loan from Halifax  also for home 
improvements in August 2002. They applied for £25,000 and I can see that the funds for this 
loan were used  to repay Loan 1. The application was also made in a branch of Halifax.  They 
were sold a PPI policy at the same time again to cover Mr B only.  
This loan was also repayable over a period of 19 years. The monthly loan repayment was 
£179.10 with the PPI costing an additional  £18.58 making the total monthly repayment 
£197.68. The policy didnt  attract  interest and it could have been cancelled without penalty 
by one party  giving written notice to the other. If Halifax wanted to cancel the cover, it had to 
give Mr and Mrs B 30 days notice.   
I can see this PPI policy was cancelled on 9 July 2004. I can see from the screenshots 
provided to us by Halifax that the loan was repaid in August 2007. 
Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the point  of sale
I have to say that the information  provided  ostensibly by the representative in the PPI 
questionnaire appears  to me to be both confused  and inconsistent. I say this for various  
reasons, but it was stated that Mrs B was covered by the PPI when Mr B was the 
policyholder. We are then told that Mrs B was in receipt of incapacity benefit and so the 
cover should  not have  been sold to her, but at the same time that neither Mr nor Mrs B had 
Ref: DRN25800012any health conditions.  It was also stated that Mrs B was in employment at the same time as 
receiving incapacity  benefit  a state benefit which was paid to people  who were  incapable  
of work. I can see at an earlier stage that the information provided to Halifax  by the 
representative suggested that Mr B had been working for many years  and was also in 
receipt of incapacity  benefit. 
Regrettably, I consider the information  contained  within the PPI questionnaires to be so 
unreliable that I have  had to make findings as to Mr and Mrs Bs personal circumstances at 
the relevant times which I have set out below in the my findings section. 
The submissions 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative made  lengthy and substantial representations  on their behalf.  
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Bs representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policies  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs 
Bs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Halifax should 
have told Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs B 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Those representing Mr and Mrs B also made a number of arguments in respect of single 
premium policies. However, the cover that was sold to Mr and Mrs B on both occasions was 
a regular premium policy.  The premium was not paid upfront and did not attract interest.  
With that in mind, I have  not dealt with the arguments in respect  of single premiums because 
they are irrelevant to the cover that was actually sold. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
Further, in 2019,  some time after our adjudicator issued the view, I can also see that those 
representing Mr and Mrs B provided  documentation  to say that Mr B had been made 
redundant in 2007. Mr and Mrs B had contacted Halifax to request a payment holiday in 
respect of their loan repayments to which Halifax responded that they would fall into arrears.  
A family member then lent them money  to pay their loan for six months.  It was argued that 
Mr and Mrs B were  not made aware they had PPI at the point of sale and if they had known 
about the cover when  Mr B was made redundant in 2007, they would have claimed. 
Ref: DRN25800013As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint
These PPI sales took place in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs)  overarching  Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement for Loan  1 concluded in 2002.  Loan 2 was repaid in 2007.  That 
means the unfair relationship provisions  set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the 
Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made  
by the FCA about  the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light 
of the Plevin judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
These sales occurred during a period of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance  
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for  Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN25800014The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policies were  appropriate  or suitable for them  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the cover,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the cover  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs B, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs B 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
Mr and Mrs Bs personal circumstances 
As I said above, the information provided to us in respect of Mr and Mrs Bs personal 
circumstances appeared to me to be inconsistent  and somewhat confused.  On that basis,  I 
make the following findings  in respect  of what appears to me to have been  most likely at the 
point of sale for both policies. There does not appear to have been  a discernible change  in 
Ref: DRN25800015circumstances between  Loans 1 and 2 and so what I have said below applies to both PPI 
sales. 
The evidence provided by Halifax (which I accept) suggests that Mr B was employed  in a 
supervisory capacity in the private  sector. He started that role in 1974 and had been 
employed for 28 years when both policies were sold. Given his length of service,  I think Mr B 
would have had some sick pay. He would have also been entitled to redundancy pay given 
how long hed been in work with that company.  But as Mr and Mrs B told us they ran into 
financial difficulties with their repayments shortly  after Mr B was made redundant, I dont 
think his redundancy  payment would have  been substantial. Given those difficulties, I think  
their existing means were  also most likely limited. 
As Ive found Mr B had been employed in the same job for such  a long time, I find it is most 
unlikely that he would  have been simultaneously  in receipt of incapacity  benefit, which  was 
paid to people  who were incapable  of work.  On that basis, the evidence  does not suggest  Mr 
B had a pre-existing medical condition when the cover  was sold.  
Halifax recorded Mrs Bs occupation  as housewife.  No income  appears  to have been 
entered in respect of Mrs B and so I think Halifaxs records are correct on that front. Even if 
Mrs B was in receipt of incapacity benefit at that time, this would not have affected  the PPI 
policies because only Mr B was covered by them. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policies were  optional.  
It was argued on behalf of Mr and Mrs B that because they did not make a claim when Mr B 
was made  redundant in 2007,  they did not know they had a PPI policy. It was further argued 
that if they had been told about  this cover at the point of sale, they would have  made a claim 
accordingly. However, the PPI in respect of Loan  1 was cancelled  in 2002  when  the loan 
was repaid. In respect of Loan 2, the policy  was cancelled  in 2004, some  three  years  before 
Mr B lost his job. So he was no longer covered when he was made redundant and it would  
have been impossible to make  a claim at that time.  I further find that Mr and Mrs B must 
have known about the PPI cover, if they did not, they wouldnt have known to cancel  it in 
2004. 
I can also see that the credit agreement  for both loans showed the cost of the PPI policy 
separately to the loan repayments. There were two equally prominent boxes to tick  one to 
say they wanted PPI and another to say they did not. On each occasion, the yes box has 
been marked. I can see that both of these  application forms had to be independently 
witnessed. It would have been  clear  to Mr and Mrs B that these forms were important 
documents and Im satisfied they would  have familiarised themselves with the content.  I 
think they would have seen the reference to PPI  and  if it had been  presented  as not 
optional, they would  have queried this at the time.  The evidence  Ive seen doesnt suggest  
they did. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs B knew the policies 
were optional and they agreed  to take them  out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Ref: DRN25800016Ive treated these sales as advised.  Thats because Halifax would have had some 
information as to Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the relevant times.  Mr and Mrs B could 
have reasonably concluded  that Halifax had tailored its PPI recommendation in light of what  
it knew about their circumstances when it sold the policies. On that basis, Halifax had to 
advise Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policies were 
appropriate or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policies were  suitable for Mr 
and Mrs B. It is not clear  what Mr and Mrs B recall about the meetings. The adviser  had 
some limited  information about Mr and Mrs Bs financial  circumstances,  but there is no 
specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps  to establish whether Mr and Mrs B would 
have been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant the 
policies did not fully meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing  to suggest Halifax  
considered whether Mr and Mrs B had any pre-existing  medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policies were  suitable for Mr and Mrs B given their circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policies were 
suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the cover  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs B met the eligibility criteria.
-Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policies. I accept  Mr B most likely  had some sick 
pay from his employer, but the policies would have covered their repayments  for up 
to five years if he became  unwell. And I think it is most unlikely that his sick pay from 
work would  have lasted for that long.  As I said above, Mr B likely  had some  
redundancy pay, but as Mr and Mrs B ran into difficulties with their loan repayments  
shortly after Mr B lost his job, I dont the redundancy payment would  have lasted for 
long. With that in mind,  it seems likely  that Mr and Mrs Bs ability  to meet  their loan 
repayments would have been  and actually were put under strain  if Mr B was not 
working for an extended period  of time.  I reiterate  that this loan was secured on Mr 
and Mrs Bs home and could have been  at risk if they fell behind with their 
repayments. 
-I have seen some information  Mr and Mrs B gave  to Halifax  about  their income and 
expenditure at the relevant time.  The monthly  cost of the policies appears to have  
been affordable  for Mr and Mrs B.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policies unsuitable for Mr and Mrs B. 
There was nothing  about Mr Bs employment  or occupation which  would have made 
it difficult for him to claim. And Im not aware  of any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect his ability  to claim.  
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policies to enable  them  to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the cover.
Ref: DRN25800017the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B were given a broad  description of 
what the policies  intended to cover  (that is that their payments would be protected  if Mr B 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness and disability) and of the approximate  costs. I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have taken out 
either policy without  any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium 
might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
and Mrs B agreed to take out the cover. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policies were a suitable  recommendation for Mr and Mrs B, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policies in a way that was fair and 
reasonable to Mr and Mrs B. Im not persuaded Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs B all of the 
information they needed to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Bs. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry  
codes and standards of good industry  practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought  to have done either. 
What effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent  did Mr 
and Mrs B suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ref: DRN25800018Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold these policies to Mr and 
Mrs B. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr 
and Mrs B suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs B would have still taken  out the cover, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policies were suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I have found that the policies were ultimately 
suitable. 
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs B suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mr and Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the 
policies in any event.
Mr and Mrs B say they wouldnt have taken  the cover and believe I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs B had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  that would protect  their loan payments in the event Mr B was unable  to work 
because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded they wanted  that product.  
But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  they thought  
they were getting  is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time of the sales that the cover was not fundamentally  wrong or unsuitable. 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B knew  they would have to pay 
something for the cover, I cant say its most likely  Halifax  told them  the exact premium at the 
point Mr and Mrs B applied for the policies. Having said that, I do note the cost is set out 
clearly on the credit  agreements and so Im satisfied Mr and Mrs B would have known the 
cost before the cover started and they paid for the policy in respect  of Loan 2 for a number of 
years. If the costs  were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point of sale, I 
think they would have most likely  have raised that with Halifax at the time, or reconsidered 
their decision. The evidence doesnt suggest they did. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs B would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policies.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs B would get back 
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Bs 
expectations about what the policies  would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient 
to meet  their loan repayment)  were significantly different to what  the they actually did.
Ref: DRN25800019Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they bought 
and what they actually bought were the following:
The policy in respect of Loan 1 excluded claims relating to any sickness,  disease, 
condition or injury which Mr B knew about or for which he had received a diagnosis, 
advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the 
start date and which recurred within 24 months before the start date. 
For Loan 2, the policy  excluded claims for any conditions for which  treatment or 
advice had been suggested by a registered medical  practitioner during the 12 months 
prior to the start date and which recurred  within 12 months of the start date; a 
condition whether diagnosed or not for which Mr B had experienced significant and 
substantive symptoms or for which investigations  had commenced by a registered 
medical practitioner in the 12 months  before the start date of the policy; and a chronic 
or continuing disease Mr B was aware of at the start date and which  recurred during 
the first 12 months of the start date; 
Both policies contained  limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
Both policies limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim under both policies, 
Mr B be unable  to do his own job, a similar  job or any paid work which his 
experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policies 
werent as good  as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from taking out the 
cover. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policies  
were not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable.  Mr B was eligible for the cover and the policies 
could have been valuable, despite  the limitations and exclusions, should  the insured risks 
have become a reality.  The evidence doesnt suggest Mr B would have been caught by any 
of the significant exclusions   Mr and Mrs B didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions  
and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think Mr and Mrs B had some good reasons to 
take the cover out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
B might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected  to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs B from taking out the cover,  Mr and Mrs B, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs B had known Mr B could only claim for disability if he was not only unable  to 
do his job but also any similar job or any paid work  which in the insurers  view he might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into Mr and Mrs Bs thinking about  what  
they would  do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  although its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr B was unable (through 
Ref: DRN258000110disability) to carry on his own occupation  the chances that he would  be able to take up a 
similar occupation or any other paid work would also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policies. They were suitable and 
sufficiently close to what its likely Mr and Mrs B thought  they were getting  and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences were Mr and Mrs B made 
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs B would have taken  out the cover in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs B found  themselves  in as result  of the sale was the same position  they would have been 
in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mr and Mrs B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policies. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the cover. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the cover, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policies they buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Ref: DRN258000111Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Halifax had been in breach  of its duty of utmost  good  faith.  But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 May 2021.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2580001