K820x#14complaint
Mr H took out a mortgage in 1998  with Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.  He says a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy  was mis-sold to him at the same time. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr H they didnt  think the 
MPPI policy was mis-sold.  Halifax  has since offered to give Mr H some  money  back for the 
commission it got from the selling him the MPPI. 
Mr H still thinks  the MPPI  was mis-sold in the first place and asked for his complaint to be 
passed for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the MPPI being mis-sold. 
These events took place  almost 21 years ago now, so I can understand that remembering 
what happened might  be difficult. However, I think there is strong evidence that Mr H asked 
for the MPPI  and would have  been able to see such a policy  had been set up for him. 
I say this because  I can see on his mortgage  application form there was a section  about  
MPPI. I think this section portrayed the MPPI as optional and not something  he needed to 
buy if he didnt want to. 
I can see ways in which this form could have been  set out more clearly  and I dont think the 
intermediary Mr H met with did everything right. But I can see Mr H signed his name in the 
section about  MPPI,  indicating that he was interested in this type of protection. I also note 
Mr H was later given  a quotation  about  the MPPI before deciding what  to do.
However, Mr H then went on to complete a second  - and separate - application form 
entitled MORTGAGE REPAYMENTS INSURANCE  APPLICATION. In my view,  this very 
clearly shows  he wanted to have the cover. I therefore think Mr H consented  to the policy.
Halifax accepts the MPPI  was recommended  to him, so it had a duty to make sure it was 
suitable for Mr Hs situation.  He thinks it wasnt, but Im afraid I think it was.
This is because it seems to me that Mr H was eligible for the cover and not caught by any 
of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these  policies. And at £7.59 per month,  I think  
this would have  been affordable for him. 
Mr H appears  to have had some protection from sickness  already with his job and I agree 
that it would  have been relatively generous. He also said he had some savings.
Ref: DRN29092762But Im afraid I dont think either of these made the MPPI unsuitable for him. The savings he 
had at the time appear to have been part of his mortgage deposit  and the evidence  of 
savings he sent us recently post-date the MPPI sale by many  years.
In any event, I think Mr Hs mortgage was secured against his new home  and so the 
consequences of him not being able to keep up payments could  have been  serious.  On the 
other hand, if there was a successful claim, the cover  he bought was payable for up to 12 
months in the event  of him being  unable to work or losing  his job. This would have  been  in 
addition to any other means  he already  had in place at the time.
So although  I cant say why Mr H decided to buy this policy, I dont think  Halifax  
recommending it to him was unreasonable. I think the policy was suitable.
 
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm  if he was told everything  he ought to have  been.  But I think  theres  
substantial evidence which shows the cost was set out for him and there  was information 
about who and what was covered. So on balance, I think Mr H had enough information to 
decide what he wanted to do.
This all means Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr H. But its offered to pay back some of the cost of the MPPI  because:  
When the policy was sold,  it expected  to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the MPPI  premium)  - so it should have told Mr H about  that. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland plc has basically  offered  to pay back the amount 
of commission and profit  share  that was above  50% of the MPPI premium  - and I 
think that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
My understanding is that Bank of Scotland plc has already paid the extra Mr H paid because  
the commission and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. It should  also 
pay Mr H 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank  of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the MPPI  to Mr H. 
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29092763
Ref: DRN2909276