K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains Metro  Bank PLC debited his account with a series of bank transfers which 
have been made from his current  account and his card account. He says he didnt make or 
otherwise authorise  them.
background
Mr D says 15 bank transfers which were made between 10 November 2017 and 
19 February 2018 were  not made  by him. The bank transfers were all authorised on the 
phone. He says he was in prison  custody  between those  dates  and consequently didnt have 
access to his account and his cards  and phone werent in his possession during that time. 
He also says  because he was in prison custody - he wasnt able to make calls to business 
numbers.
Mr D initially said that he didnt write down his security details although  he later said he had 
them in his prison cell. He also said that he gave his details to family members whilst he was 
in prison custody.
Mr D complained to Metro and they didnt uphold the complaint. They  said the phone 
transactions which Mr D was disputing involved setting up new beneficiaries. And were 
made using  the correct  security information   which included  two digits from his security 
number and characters  from his password. Metro say it was reasonable for them to assume 
it was Mr D authorising the transactions or someone who Mr D had given all his details to. In 
which case they were not obliged  to refund the transactions as per their terms and 
conditions.
Mr D was unhappy with Metros response, so he referred the matter  to our service.  
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ds complaint. And they didnt  think Metro needed to 
do anything further.  He said having looked at the evidence  he could see Mr D was allowing 
others to use his account. But he also said Mr D authorised the transactions  he disputed  
because some of the information given in the calls about a cheque being  requested  would 
only have been  known by Mr D. He was also persuaded the voice on the calls sounded like 
Mr D. 
Mr D was unhappy with the investigators view. He maintained  the transactions were carried  
out by someone  unknown  to him. He said other  prisoners and prison  officers  couldve had 
access to his details  and information  about  his requesting a cheque. He said all his 
information was available  to others during the time he was in prison. And he questioned the 
accuracy of the voice recognition to establish  if it was him, as male  members of his family 
sound very similar.
As there was no agreement the matter has come  to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same conclusions as the investigator set out and for much the 
same reasons.
Ref: DRN29018512Generally, Metro can hold Mr D liable for the disputed transfers  if the evidence  suggests its 
more likely than not he made or authorised them himself.
I am satisfied on the evidence the correct security  details were used to make the disputed 
transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not, on its own enough to 
enable Metro to hold Mr D liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence 
suggests its more  likely  than not Mr D consented to the transfers being made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Metro to conclude  Mr D authorised 
the transactions. I say this because:
The disputed transactions were carried  out using Mr Ds genuine  details including his 
date of birth, account number, digits from his security code and characters from his 
password.  Mr  D hasnt been consistent in saying whether  he wrote down his security 
details. I dont know whether he did write down his details or not. But even if I accept 
Mr D did write down  these details, Im satisfied  its unlikely his banking details were  
obtained this way.
Mr D has also said that his family members had access to his banking details. Even if 
that is the case. I am satisfied  its more  likely  it was Mr D who carried out the 
transactions and not a family member.
One of the disputed  transactions  is an account  to account transfer. it seems unlikely 
that a fraudster wouldve carried out such a transaction as it wouldnt have benefited 
them to do so. If a fraudster had access to Mr Ds bank account,  it seems more likely 
theyd transfer  larger  amounts  over a shorter timescale than three months.  This didnt  
happen.
On a call in December  2017  relating to a disputed  transaction, the caller mentions a 
letter being  sent to the bank  to request a cheque. This cheque  request is also 
mentioned in a later call made by Mr D in March 2018 when  he is raising the fraud 
complaint. There is no plausible explanation why a fraudster would mention the letter 
in the first call. The mention of it in a subsequent call by Mr D suggests  its more 
likely than not Mr D made the original  call authorising  the disputed  transaction. 
I find it surprising that the disputed transactions  were made from the same  phone 
number as the genuine transactions  during  the same period. This leads me to think 
Mr D did have access to phones in prison  and he made the disputed  transaction  
calls. 
Metro have said the verification process  they used in order  to set up the beneficiaries  
includes voice matching  of the customer  using  a call older  than 3 months.  Ive seen 
evidence that Metro carried out voice verification on the calls when new beneficiaries 
were set up. Metro  have  recorded this as a voice match.  The voice match suggests 
the caller on the disputed  transactions  matched  Mr Ds voice from earlier in the year. 
I have listened  to all the calls where  both genuine and disputed transactions were 
made during  the period Mr D was in prison.  And in doing so Im satisfied its more 
likely than not the calls were  all made  by Mr D.
In response to our investigators opinion Mr D said Metro hadnt  explained how voice 
recognition was an accurate replacement for a four-digit code. Mr D still thought Metro had 
Ref: DRN29018513allowed someone to compromise his account by allowing  someone  to set up beneficiaries 
without the proper process. Ive thought about  what Mr Ds said, but it doesnt change  my 
conclusion. I agree that normally Metro would send a four digit code to the consumer but in 
this case it wasnt possible.  And as Ive already outlined,  Im satisfied that security was 
passed and the disputed  transactions were all authenticated.  Having listened to the calls and 
looked at the bank  evidence I am satisfied  its more likely than not Mr D made  the calls and I 
have outlined why above.
Taking everything into account,  I find on balance Mr D authorised  the disputed transfers. It 
follows Metro is entitled to hold him liable for them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.  
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2901851