K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Airdrie Savings Bank  (Airdrie) mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about regular premium PPI policies taken out with loans in 1999,  2000 and 
2001. Mr and Mrs K applied for the PPI during a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Airdrie disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ks case. 
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Airdrie didnt recommend  the policies to Mr and Mrs K, so they didnt have to make sure they 
were suitable for them. But they did have to give them  enough information  that Mr and Mrs K 
could decide whether  they wanted  the PPI or not. Airdrie  should have also highlighted the 
main features of the policy. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, I can see that Mrs K wasnt eligible for the policy  
because she worked for less than 16 hours  a week. Having reviewed the policy  cover, I can 
see that this meant the policy wasnt of any use to them  as the terms of the policy  required 
applicants to be working for 16 hours  or more. So Mrs K wouldnt have been  able to claim on 
the policy if shed  been too unwell to work. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs K wouldve  bought the policy if theyd realised  Mrs K wasnt  eligible. 
So, I think Mr and Mrs K have lost out because of what Airdrie did wrong. 
Ref: DRN28470012putting things right
Airdrie should put Mr and Mrs K in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and Airdrie should:
Pay Mr and Mrs K the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs K made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Airdrie can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Airdrie to take off tax from this interest. Airdrie must  give Mr and Mrs K a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Airdrie Savings Bank should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2847001