K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the way Bulstrad Life Vienna  Insurance  Group JSC (BLV) 
handled their travel  insurance  claim.
All references to BLV include its agents.
background
In October  2018, Mr and Mrs A were on a trip to Spain  and they missed their flight  back 
home due to a flat tyre. As a result, they had to make alternative travel  arrangements which 
meant they incurred additional costs. Upon their return to UK they made  a claim under their 
travel insurance policy.
BLV declined  Mr and Mrs As claim saying that their policy states that cover  under the 
missed departure section  only applies to missed departure on the outward journey and does 
not include return journeys. 
Mr and Mrs A were  unhappy with this so they brought their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint  but didnt think BLV had unfairly  declined  the claim.   
Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the investigator  so the complaint  has been passed to me to 
make a decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand that Mr and Mrs A feel that a basic premise  of a travel  insurance policy  should  
cover most typical holidays,  whereby getting  to and from ones destination is covered. 
However, not all events will be covered by a travel insurance policy.  Only specific, defined 
insured events set out in the policy will be covered. The onus is for the policyholder to show  
that an insured  event  is the reason for their claim. 
Ive read through Mr and Mrs As policy and the only section  that covers missed  departures 
is the section  titled  MISSED DEPARTURE ON YOUR OUTWARD JOURNEY. An 
outward journey in the policy is defined as the initial  journey  in conjunction with your trip 
from your home in your home country, therefore  this section of the policy  would not apply to 
Mr and Mrs As return journey. 
The summary of cover,  set out on page  2 of Mr and Mrs As policy  booklet, says cover under 
missed departure only applies  to the outward journey. So I think  the policy is clear. 
The flight  Mr and Mrs A missed  is not an insured event which  is covered  by their policy. This 
means I dont think BLV has been  unfair  or unreasonable when it turned down their claim.  
Whilst I realise my decision will come  as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs A, Im not asking 
BLV to do anything further. 
Mr and Mrs A also believe  that their policy was mis-sold and have raised  various mis-sale 
points, but in this decision  Ive only dealt  with the claim aspect of their complaint, which  BLV 
Ref: DRN23793912is responsible for. If Mr and Mrs A would like to raise a mis-sale complaint then theyd need 
to direct this to the company  that sold them the policy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr and Mrs As 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 September 2019
Mike Kozbial
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2379391