K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about an application for a buy-to-let mortgage  made  by K, a limited 
company whose directors are Mr G and Mrs S. The application was made to 
Foundation Home  Loans (FHL), a trading  name of Paratus AMC Limited.  Before FHL 
decided whether to lend K the money,  the transaction fell through  after the vendor increased 
the price of the property K was trying to buy. Mr G and Mrs S say that K was forced to abort 
the purchase after numerous mistakes  and delays on FHLs  part. K is seeking  to be 
reimbursed the abortive  costs of the attempted purchase.
background 
The application was made to FHL through a broker Ill call B. The process started in 
November 2017,  but due to technical  problems, FHL only received relevant information from 
B on 14 December 2017. In early January, when seeking an update,  B was asked to provide 
information that B considered had already  been supplied. FHL responded to say it required 
further information about Mrs S, and once this was supplied, a valuation  was carried  out; that 
happened on 26 January 2018  and FHL received  it on 2 February  2018.  
FHL needed clarification  of certain comment in the valuation and this was sought from the 
surveyor. Unfortunately, before this could be resolved, the vendor told K it was increasing 
the price due to the delay. K withdrew from the transaction and complained that FHL had 
taken too long. FHL admitted to some delays, and offered to refund the £125  application fee 
and pay a further £125 in compensation for inconvenience.  
K referred  its complaint to us. Its seeking a refund of the valuation  fee and abortive 
conveyancing costs. Our adjudicator thought FHLs settlement offer was fair and 
recommended K accept  it. Mr G and Mrs S have asked that Ks complaint be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, which is why its come  to me.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
I have summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont  mention  
something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. I dont have to answer every question  Im asked. I have to 
decide whats fair in the round.
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the complainant when my 
decision is published. 
The banks customer here, and the party eligible to bring the complaint to us, is the limited  
company K. It isnt Mr G or Mrs S personally;  their role is merely to represent the company in 
bringing the complaint, in their capacity  as its directors.  
Ref: DRN23825112Mr G, in one of his more detailed submissions, quotes extensively from the Supply of Goods 
and Services Act when describing  what he sees  as FHLs many shortcomings. However, the 
arguments he makes in that regard arent  really  helpful to Ks case. 
Firstly, the act from which he quotes has been superseded by the Consumer Rights Act. 
Mr G has referenced the Consumer Rights Act too, but the point here is that the 
Consumer Rights Act is, as the name  suggests,  about the rights of consumers; that is, 
individuals. K isnt a consumer; its a limited company, which means  the legislation from 
which Mr G has quoted  is of no relevance  to my consideration  of the complaint.
Theres another point  to consider here. Of the two major items of expenditure K is asking to 
be reimbursed; only one of them  the £600  of abortive conveyancing costs  appears from 
the evidence in front of me to have been paid by the company. The evidence from K shows  
that valuation  fee of £1,060 was paid by Mr G personally from his own bank account. That 
being so, I couldnt consider it as a cost incurred by K.
I assure Ks directors that Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, Im afraid  
Ive some disappointing news for K; Im in broad agreement  with the adjudicators  findings,  
and for much the same overall reasons.
Its not my role to second-guess or otherwise interfere with the commercial  decisions a 
lender makes about how much, and on what terms, it will lend money. It was for FHL to 
decide what information it needed before it was prepared to make a lending decision. 
A lender has to be satisfied it has everything  it needs in order  to make that decision. It is the 
party best placed to judge when it has all the information necessary about the applicants and 
the proposed  security  and its not my place to interfere with that. 
Yes, its true that process took a long time, but I couldnt fairly attribute all of that to undue 
delays on the part of FHL. After all, there was a problem with getting the initial  submission to 
FHL at the outset,  and a legitimate query in the valuation that took several weeks  to resolve.  
Its also important to keep  in mind that the decision not to proceed with the transaction  was 
ultimately made by K, presumably because the directors  werent  prepared  to renegotiate 
with the vendor. That was Ks right, but it was also Ks choice. In all of the circumstances, I 
find that FHLs offer to refund the £125  application fee and pay K a further £125 is fair in all 
the circumstances.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from their submissions the focus with which  Ks directors have 
brought the complaint. They see error or wrong-doing  in almost everything FHL has done (or 
not done).  Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable. 
But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or anomalies in what both 
sides have said and done from time to time.  Be that as it may,  I have  to take a different 
approach. Im impartial and I have  to look at things subjectively, sometimes  taking a step 
back from the fine detail  and instead focussing on the broader  picture.  Thats what Ive done.
K doesnt have  to accept my conclusions, and if it doesnt, then neither it nor FHL will be 
bound by my final decision.  Subject to any time limits a court  might  impose,  Ks right to take 
legal action against FHL over the subject  matter of this complaint wont  have been 
prejudiced by our consideration  of the complaint.
Ref: DRN23825113my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont make any order or 
award. I leave it to the directors of K to decide  whether  they wish to accept FHLs offer in full 
and final settlement of the complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration 
of this complaint,  which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the directors of K 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2382511