K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  (Bank of 
Scotland) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  when they were 
applying for a loan in 1987. 
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that it shouldnt  be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion,  so the complaint has been passed  to 
me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  the reasons  for this.
First of all, given the circumstances of Mr and Mrs W at the time of the sale, I think they were 
eligible for the cover. So they could  have claimed  on the PPI if theyd needed to.
Next, Ive looked at whether Bank of Scotland made it sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs W that 
the PPI was optional. The policy was sold to them  at a meeting.  Theres  limited information  
available about  this sale, but given  that it took place in 1987 and the loan has ended, this 
isnt unusual. In complaints  where so much  time has passed,  evidence is often incomplete 
or missing.
 
However, a copy of the loan agreement is available and it shows  a section about the policy. 
This had yes and no boxes to be marked to show whether or not Mr and Mrs W wanted to 
take out the PPI and the yes box was ticked. I think the PPI section  would have been 
obvious to Mr and Mrs W. But Ive also considered that Mr and Mrs W have told us that they 
werent aware there was a choice on the form and they had the understanding  that if they 
didnt take out the policy  they wouldnt get the loan.
Of course,  I cant  be sure what was said during the meeting when the policy  was sold.  I 
accept its possible the adviser may have said something to make Mr and Mrs W think  they 
needed to take the policy.  But the evidence doesnt support such  a conclusion. Ive taken 
into account that many years have passed  since the sale and its possible Mr and Mrs W 
chose the PPI policy because it was right for them. Overall, without stronger  evidence  that 
Bank of Scotland failed to make it clear enough to Mr and Mrs W that they had a choice, I 
dont feel I can fairly  uphold the complaint  on this basis.
Next, Bank  of Scotland  has told us it recommended  the policy  to Mr and Mrs W so it needed  
to make sure that it was suitable.  Mr and Mrs W have told us that they would have received 
sick pay from their employers and that they had savings. But I think  that nonetheless the PPI 
would have been important to them. This was a secured loan and if they couldnt  pay it their 
home was at risk and there could  have been serious  consequences.  And I think  it was 
Ref: DRN20226902reasonable in Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances for Bank of Scotland  to recommend the policy  
to them.  
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs W wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But they were eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been  affected by 
any of the main things  the policy didnt cover. Overall, I dont think  any better  information  
about this would have stopped Mr and Mrs W from buying the PPI. I can also see that the 
cost of the policy has been provided on the loan agreement. So I think its most likely that Mr 
and Mrs W would have understood how much  they needed to pay for it. On balance, I dont 
think that theres anything  in this complaint Bank  of Scotland needs to put right.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs W but Im not upholding their complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2022690