K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC declined  a number of cash  machine withdrawals he 
tried to make from his bank account.
background
Mr A tried to withdraw £500 from his Lloyds  account on 29 November 2018. This request 
was declined. He tried to withdraw £250 twice  on 30 November 2018 but both these 
requests were declined.  Mr As unhappy  with whats happened and says he hasnt been  
given an explanation for the withdrawals being  declined. Hes also unhappy with the way 
Lloyds has dealt with him. He wants  compensation for the inconvenience hes suffered.
Lloyds said in its final response that Mr A hadnt  been called  back  as promised. Itd offered 
£40 compensation  for this but Mr A had rejected that offer.  Mr A was told that the reason he 
couldnt withdraw £500 on 29 November  was that this wouldve taken him over his daily 
withdrawal limit as hed already taken out money  that day. The withdrawals on 30 November 
were declined due to Lloyds fraud department adding  a restriction on the card for security  
purposes. It wouldve sent an automated  message to Mr A about this although he says he 
didnt receive it. The block was removed the following day when Mr A completed the 
required security. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
The terms and conditions of Mr As account  say Lloyds  may refuse  to allow  cash  
withdrawals including  if the daily withdrawal limit has been exceeded or if its internal 
security controls require additional  information.
Lloyds explained  in its final response letter that the withdrawal requests on 29 
November 2018 were declined as Mr A had already withdrawn his daily limit. And his 
attempts to withdraw money  on 30 November were declined because  he put in the 
wrong PIN on one attempt and two more attempts were declined  due to fraud  
assessment checks. 
Lloyds hasnt made an error. It acted reasonably and in line with the accounts terms 
and conditions. Lloyds  has offered  £40 compensation  for poor service when it didnt 
call Mr A back as it promised. Thats  fair. 
Mr A remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
Lloyds has explained  that it declined Mr As withdrawal requests on 29 November 2018 
because hed already withdrawn his daily limit. That seems fair and reasonable and is in line 
with the accounts terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN25359992One of Mr As withdrawal  requests on 30 November was declined  because the incorrect  PIN 
was used. Thats reasonable. Two other withdrawal requests that day were declined  due to 
Lloyds fraud  assessment  checks. That was also in line with the accounts terms and 
conditions. Its important  that businesses like Lloyds have processes and procedures  in 
place to try and identify  withdrawal attempts that arent genuine. Its in the nature of 
processes like these that genuine customers may be inconvenienced by them,  but thats not 
to say that Lloyds  shouldnt  have  them in place or that it shouldnt  have followed them  as it 
did here.
I also note the block  on withdrawals was removed the next day after Mr A provided some 
information to Lloyds.
Taking everything into account  I think Lloyds has acted fairly  and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably  require it to do anything  
more than its already  done. 
Although I recognise  Mr As strength of feeling  and frustration, I dont see any compelling 
reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case. I simply leave it to Mr A to decide if he 
now wants to accept  Lloyds offer of £40 compensation for the poor service he received.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2535999