K820x#14complaint
Mrs L on behalf of the estate of Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) 
mis-sold them a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
During a meeting in 1995 Mr and Mrs L took out a loan with Halifax. At the same time they 
were sold a regular  premium PPI policy to protect  their repayments. Although the loan was in 
joint names the policy was in Mr Ls name  only.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  the policy  was 
presented as optional and wouldve suited  their needs.  
Mrs L disagrees. She says they didnt need the policy.  
 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold  the late Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint.
Mr and Mrs L applied for a loan during a meeting with Halifax. Halifax needed to make  it 
clear that PPI was optional and that Mr and Mrs L agreed to take it. I dont know exactly  what  
was discussed  at the time. And given the length  of time that has passed  since  the late Mr 
and Mrs L were sold the policy I wouldnt expect Mrs L to have a detailed recollection of what  
was discussed.  So Ive given more weight  to what the documents from the time of the sale 
show.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ls loan agreement. I can see on the loan agreement that the 
costs of the loan and PPI are set out separately on the right. Mr and Mrs L have  signed  just 
to the bottom  left of the agreement. I think Mr and Mrs L wouldve read the agreement  that 
they signed and understood they were taking out PPI with the loan. And I dont  think that PPI 
wouldve been included  on the agreement if there hadnt been  a discussion about PPI and 
Mr and Mrs L hadnt agreed to take it. 
So I think its likely that Halifax did make it clear  the policy was optional  and that Mr and 
Mrs L chose to take PPI at the time of the sale.
This was an advised  sale. What  this means  is that Halifax not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs L could 
make an informed choice  about buying PPI. They also had to make sure that if they were to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to their needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Halifax did take all the steps they shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs L for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN26571902Mr L was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been  caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.  
At the time of the sale Mrs L says Mr L was entitled to a good  level of sick and 
redundancy pay but had no other  means of making their repayments  if they couldnt  
work. The policy wouldve  paid out on top of any sick or redundancy pay and for 
potentially longer covering their repayments for up to 60 months  if Mr L was too sick 
to work and for up to 12 months  if he lost his job. So I think  the policy wouldve 
provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs L in their circumstances.   
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs L at the 
time and if they no longer wanted  the policy they could cancel  it.  
I also need to consider  whether Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs L information in a way which  was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. I can see that cost of the policy was shown on the loan 
agreement but I dont know if Halifax gave all of the information as they shouldve.
For the same reasons  that the policy was suitable and based on what  Mrs L has told us 
about their circumstances at the time,  I think  they wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  if 
theyd been given all the proper information on the policy.  
This means  Mrs L and the estate of Mr L arent  worse off as a result of any wrong doing by 
Halifax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold the estate of Mr Ls complaint against Bank 
of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2657190