K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Santander UK Plc has recorded adverse information  on his credit  file.
background
Mr S went  overdrawn on his Santander account.  He says its an account he barely used and 
although hed set up text alerts  he didnt receive  any. He says this resulted in charges being 
added to his account. Hes unhappy  with the time taken  to resolve his complaint and that 
Santander has recorded adverse information on his credit file. He wants  it removed and 
compensation for the time taken to resolve matters.
Santander said in its final response that the data itd recorded is a correct and accurate 
reflection of the usage of Mr S account as he didnt make some payments into it for a 
number of months and had gone over his authorised  overdraft limit. Itd also correctly applied  
fees.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
The terms and conditions of the account set out the fees and charges associated 
with going overdrawn  or into an unplanned  overdraft. The account statements show 
Santander applied  them correctly  to Mr S account.
Mr S also exceeded his overdraft limit and Santander reported this on his credit  file. It 
has a duty to do so.
Although Mr S was registered for text alert services the number Santander held is 
different to the one hes supplied to us. This may explain why he didnt receive text 
alerts. He was also registered for internet banking and statements were being sent. 
These showed the account as overdrawn and advised of the charges to be applied. 
Mr S couldve checked his account online, in a branch or at an ATM.  Santander  also 
responded to Mr S complaint  in a few days.
Santander has dealt  with Mr S fairly.
Mr S doesnt  agree.  He says the mobile  number  Santander had for him is the one he used at 
that time.  He wouldnt have had reason to check the account balance online  or at an ATM  as 
it wasnt his main account. If hed received a text alert he wouldve paid in money and 
wouldnt have remained overdrawn.
Santander has supplied  evidence of the dates when either SMS or email alerts  were sent to 
Mr S and the contact  details used. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S previously made a complaint to Santander which  resulted  in it issuing a final response 
letter, refunding some charges and paying  him some compensation. Because  of the time 
thats gone by since  this letter was sent out I cant consider anything  to do with that 
complaint here.
Ref: DRN22816502But despite  the redress made  in that complaint, Mr S account remained overdrawn over its 
authorised limit. Santander has shown it sent Mr S various communications about  this. Mr S 
says he didnt receive them. Whatever  happened to these communications  and although  I 
realise this account  wasnt Mr S main account,  it remained his responsibility to check  on the 
status of his account and monitor it. Mr S also had access to his account online, in branch  
and by using ATMs. He was also sent statements. Its not Santanders fault if he didnt do so.
Santander has an obligation to accurately record the conduct  of Mr S account with credit  
reference agencies.  In this case it recorded some adverse information as a result of the 
account being overdrawn and some payments not being made, as it was entitled  and obliged  
to do.
Santander also hasnt  delayed dealing with Mr S complaint.
Taking everything into account  I dont think Santander has done  anything wrong and I cant 
fairly or reasonably ask it to amend  Mr S credit file or pay him any compensation as hed 
like.
Overall although  I recognise  Mr S frustration and strength of feeling,  I dont  see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2281650