K821x#15complaint
Mr F complained because Zurich Insurance PLC refused to accept his buildings insurance 
claim for damage to his property.
background
Mr Fs policy started in September 2017.  He bought the property in January 2018 and shortly 
after moving in he noticed wet rot on most of the joists under two bedrooms. His neighbours 
told him the previous owners had a serious flood roughly two years before. Mr F claimed on 
his policy  for the damage. Zurich  didnt accept the claim. It felt it wasnt  responsible for 
damage that happened before the policy started.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I didnt think the complaint should  be 
upheld. The relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined  below.
Mr Fs policy covered damage  caused  to his property during the time its in force,  by a 
range of specific insured events. Based on that Mr F didnt have  a valid claim because  
the damage he claimed for happened  before  the policy started.
Mr Fs complaint was largely  based on a technical note on our website which  comments 
on secondary flooding (also referred to as latent flood damage). Secondary flooding  is 
damage that a consumer discovers some time after a flood. What  usually happens is that 
the insurer at the time of the flood settles  a claim in good faith for the damage known 
about at the time,  not realising there  is other damage that was caused that hadnt been 
discovered. Problems arise when  a consumer changes insurer  after a flood and then 
discovers the damage some  time later, or when a house is sold and the new homeowner  
finds the damage after theyve bought it. In both cases, the current  insurer  usually 
declines to pay for the damage because they didnt insure the home  when the damage 
occurred.
The situation Mr F found himself in is similar to the latter situation. But I felt there  was a 
subtle, but distinct, difference between  secondary  flooding  and what had happened here. 
I didnt think the damage  Mr F tried to claim for was secondary flooding.  So I didnt think 
what we said in our technical  note about  secondary flooding applied  in this case. That 
was because the original damage  to Mr Fs home wasnt  caused by flood. And if there 
wasnt primary flood damage  there  couldnt  be secondary flood damage.
The original damage was caused  by an escape  of water  that is, water  that escaped  
from a pipe, an appliance or some other  water  installation.  Although  an escape of water  
might flood a property, the actual cause of the damage would still be the initial escape 
of water  if that didnt  happen  there wouldnt be any damage.
I acknowledged that the difference  between flood  damage and escape of water  damage 
might be a technicality. But neither secondary  flooding nor secondary escape  of water is 
covered by a consumers  current  policy.  Its just that the industry  decided  in respect of a 
specific flood in the mid-2000s that the current insurer should accept a claim in the 
circumstances described above  (unless the insurer could show that the damage wasnt 
caused by flood). And since then, weve often adopted a similar approach  to complaints 
about claims for secondary  flooding.
Ref: DRN25123412I therefore concluded that Zurich  had treated Mr F fairly when it refused his claim. That 
was because it was only liable  for damage that occurred  after the policy  started. And I 
didnt think it was fair on Zurich for me to make it pay for damage caused by an escape 
of water before the policy started.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr F felt that my distinction between flood and escape of water  wasnt in line with the 
definition of flood  outlined in a technical note on our website. He felt a flood had occurred  in 
his case as the source of the water  was irrelevant.
Mr F also said my conclusion was based  on his assumption when I spoke to him that the 
original damage was caused  by an escape of water.  He said that when speaking  to me he 
made that assumption  because the property  is not close to a river or body of water. Hes 
considered this further and has discovered  that his property is in a medium to high risk area 
for a type of flood called Surface Water Flooding.  He added  that whilst carrying  out some 
recent renovations  a build-up of water  was discovered in the floor void where the secondary 
damage occurred. He thought recent  rainfall  seems to have caused the build-up of the 
water. He felt this strengthened the case that the original  cause  of the flooding was external.
Overall, Mr F felt my conclusion was based on an incorrect definition of flood, which was 
then applied to a scenario  that was speculation on his part  rather  than the facts of the 
original claim.
I havent heard further from Zurich.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Contractually, Mr Fs claim  isnt covered by his policy. Thats because the terms and 
conditions say that damage  occurring before the policy started isnt covered (irrespective of 
how it was caused). So the only reason why I would uphold  this complaint is if I felt Zurich  
treated Mr F unfairly by applying the terms of the policy  strictly. And thats where  the 
argument about secondary flooding comes in.
Im aware of what the technical note on our website says about  the definition  of flood and 
about secondary flooding. Specifically, Im aware  that water  escaping from a pipe can cause 
a flood just as much as a river bursting its banks can (I said in my provisional decision that 
an escape of water might flood a property if it was severe enough). But Im not persuaded 
that makes Zurichs  decision  to decline this claim unfair.
All we know, from what Mr Fs neighbour said, is that the previous owner previously had a 
serious flood. We dont know what that actually means. For example, we dont know  where  
the water  came from; we dont know whether the water really  led to a flood (ie did the water  
build-up and sit on top of the surface for a period  of time or did it just seep away  into the 
ground or flooring?);  and we dont know what damage was caused.  For me to conclude  that 
Zurich treated Mr F unfairly because it didnt treat this as secondary flooding,  I need more 
persuasive evidence  than a neighbour simply saying that there was previously  a serious  
flood.
Ref: DRN25123413Neither I nor Mr F knows what actually happened  when  the original claim was made  (and I 
have no way of accessing the original claim file). So I must decide the case  based  on what I 
think most likely  happened given the circumstances.  My provisional  conclusion was in part 
based on Mr F telling  me when I spoke to him that the original damage was probably caused 
by an escape  of water rather  than by a flood due to natural causes. But, whilst it was 
speculation on his part, my conclusion was also based on the fact that the escape of water  
scenario made sense  and was the most  likely  given where Mr Fs property is situated  and 
there being no evidence of damage  being caused to neighbouring  properties (which  might 
be more likely if there was a natural flood).
I note what Mr F has said about water being  found in the floor void. But I dont think  that 
adds to his case.  Theres  nothing to say that what  he found is similar to what the previous  
owner experienced. And theres nothing to say that what  he found is actually what caused 
the original damage.
So overall my opinion remains as I originally outlined. Im not persuaded its been shown the 
damage the previous owner claimed  for was caused  by flood, as opposed to an escape of 
water. And Im not persuaded its been shown the previous insurer dealt with the claim as 
flood, as opposed to escape  of water1. So Im not persuaded  that Zurich  should have treated 
the current claim as secondary flooding  damage.
I therefore conclude  that Zurich treated Mr F fairly  when it refused his claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
1 To avoid any doubt,  even if an escape of water causes a flood,  my view is that the predominant 
cause of the damage  was the escape of water  so its not unfair  for an insurer  to deal with a claim on 
that basis.
Ref: DRN2512341