K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that a car she has on finance with Close Brothers  Limited (Close 
Brothers) was not of satisfactory quality when she received it.
background
I issued my provisional decision in April 2019. I explained why I was planning to uphold  
Mrs Bs complaint in part. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
Mrs B took receipt of a used car in April 2018. The car had completed  74,230  miles and was 
first registered in 2009. She financed the vehicle through a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers.
But Mrs M says she had problems with the car and shed lost control of it on a couple of 
occasions as the ABS hadnt worked. She replaced the brakes  but that didnt resolve  the 
problem and the garage she took it to noted  there  was a fault with the Central Processing 
Unit (CPU) which wasnt notifying the brakes and anti-locking brake system (ABS) to work.  
She complained to Close Brothers in early  September 2018 and an independent  inspection  
was arranged. At that point Mrs B had, herself, covered 6,000 miles in the car and the 
overall mileage was 80,197. 
That inspection took place at the end of September. The inspector noted:
the brake pad wear  indicator had failed and needed replacing but this was likely to 
have happened  since the car had been in Mrs Bs possession
the rear brake discs  were excessively worn and wouldve been from the point of 
supply as would the pads which had now been replaced
there was a fault with the canbus  wiring which needed further investigation and could 
render the vehicle unsafe. This showed as a K-CAN fault. Other  electrical faults, 
related to this, had shown up as fault codes. He thought it was most  likely this issue 
would have been present at the point of supply
it would  be possible to drive  the vehicle 6,000 miles with this canbus fault as there 
were no warning lights and the consumer would  not be aware of it
But when the car was returned to the supplying dealership they looked at the fault codes and 
didnt think the independent engineer was right. They thought hed been  using out of date 
diagnostic equipment and the faults  had only recently  developed.
So a further  inspection was arranged by a different independent company. This inspection 
took place in mid January  2019 and it was noted that the car had covered only three 
additional miles since the inspection in September. The inspector used the dealerships  most 
up to date diagnostic  equipment. He noted  that the K-CAN fault was logged  as occurring at 
80,149 miles and so were  a few other electrical  faults to power management; glow plugs and 
additive fill levels. He said the logged mileage  suggested these faults occurred more recently 
and were not present at the point of supply. 
So Close Brothers  didnt  think there  was evidence  that the faults had been present when 
Mrs B took receipt of the car and they didnt accept responsibility.
But Mrs B thought they should and she therefore  referred her complaint to this service.  Our 
investigator didnt  agree  with Close Brothers. He thought the initial  engineers inspection had 
Ref: DRN28189032been conclusive and he didnt think the subsequent inspections had been  necessary. On the 
basis of the first findings, which  he thought  were  more persuasive, he suggested that Close 
Brothers end the finance agreement and allow Mrs B to reject the car. He thought they 
should also refund any deposit;  pay £500  compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience 
Mrs B had experienced and refund 10% of her monthly instalments from the point  of the 
initial inspection. He also suggested Close Brothers should refund the repair  costs  Mrs B 
had incurred.
But Close Brothers  disagreed. They agreed that the first inspection  had suggested  the 
brakes were  faulty at the point  of supply. But they explained that as Mrs B had the brakes  
fixed herself they would  have  suggested  she return the car to this repairer and ask them to 
attend to the issue. They  said the first inspector had, in his further commentary, suggested  
the brakes warning  light and related  fault codes were not present  at the point of supply but 
the electrical faults were. So they thought this was confusing  and a further investigation  was 
required. They explained  that this subsequent  investigation had identified faults but that it 
was now clear these faults had only developed in the last few miles and were not there at 
the point of supply. This, they said, left the brake issue. And as Mrs B had the brakes 
repaired herself and hadnt given them a chance to review any problem it wouldnt now be 
fair to insist  the car was rejected by her. So Close Brothers asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators view on this complaint and Im only intending to 
uphold it in part. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Mrs B acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. The relevant  law says that the 
car should have  been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt  then Close Brothers  
are responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right.  
But Close Brothers  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for 
its condition at the point of supply  they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
the first inspection
braking issues
This is the only point  at which  the brakes  have been considered.
Ref: DRN28189033The first inspectors comments are confusing. He initially says the brake pads are new and 
supplementary comments say the brake pads were faulty at the point of supply. I think, 
having read this at length, that the engineer was trying to explain that discs hadnt  been 
replaced by the repairer when the pads had been.  He therefore suggests  that the discs were  
worn from the beginning and as the discs and pads  should be replaced as a pair, the pads 
were therefore likely to also be unduly  damaged at the inception  of the deal.
He also comments on the brake wear  sensor  but its clear he thinks this wasnt  reset by the 
repairer and should have  been. For this reason he thinks this problem wasnt present from 
the beginning.
So theres evidence  here that its likely  the vehicle was provided  to Mrs B with unacceptably 
worn rear brake discs  and pads and I think its therefore fair to ask Close Brothers  to pay for 
the repair of those items.
CPU/K-CAN issue
The engineer identified that several fault codes  were related to a problem with the cars 
electrical system and wiring. He thought it was most likely the case  that these issues  had 
been there from the beginning. 
But the diagnostic  equipment appears  to have been more limited  than that used later  at the 
dealership and by the second independent  inspector. 
the second independent inspection
The first inspection suggested that the K-CAN issues needed further  investigation. So the 
car was returned to the dealership. When looking at the repair the dealerships more 
advanced diagnostic  equipment will have identified that the fault occurred later. 
So I dont  think Close Brothers were wrong to commission a second  independent  inspection.  
They would have  wanted to clarify matters before they commenced  any repair.  
Im persuaded that the diagnostics available to the second inspector  were more advanced 
because he says they were and because hes independent. This, more sophisticated 
diagnostic, was able to pin point the mileage at which the K-CAN was first identified and this 
was about 50 miles  before the first independent  inspection.
I think its reasonable to suggest, and the independent inspection  supports this, that the 
other electrical fault codes relate  to this fault with what appears to be, in effect, the cars 
nervous system.
So it wouldnt be fair for me to suggest  that the K-CAN issues or electrical  faults were there 
from the beginning. The evidence now suggests  they were  not.
Ref: DRN28189034misrepresentation
Mrs B also complains that she wasnt told the car had previously been used by a driving 
instructor and had some of the brackets  for the dual controls still fitted.
She thinks the hard braking  done, when learners completed emergency stops, could be the 
reason why the brakes have failed  and she think the dealership should have told her about 
the cars  previous use.
If this information would have led to Mrs B not proceeding with the deal I may have asked 
Close Brothers to take some further  action. But I dont think  thats the case  here. Ive not 
been provided with evidence  Mrs B would have walked away  from the deal and Im not 
persuaded that learner drivers  style or emergency  stops would contribute  to brake failure.
the redress
Mrs B has been without a car for some time. She also incurred storage costs of £84 and 
shes needed to replace  the rear brakes  at her own expense.  
But on the other hand Close Brothers have refunded Mrs Bs finance  instalments for the 
period she didnt have the car between  the two inspections. 
That period  has, however, been  excessive. Mrs B was without the car for 17 weeks  and has 
evidently been inconvenienced by the fact its taken Close Brothers so long to get to the nub 
of the issue. Its not her fault that shes been waiting for the experts  to decide and I think  its 
therefore fair to compensate her for the inconvenience. In think £250 is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
The storage  costs were  incurred before  the inspections and the car was evidently not 
driveable as the brakes had failed. So I think Close Brothers should refund the storage costs  
Mrs B incurred.
It may be difficult  for Mrs B to provide an invoice for the rear brake pads and discs that I 
think Close Brothers should refund. I say that because  she only had the pads replaced 
initially. For that reason  Im suggesting Close Brothers ask the dealership for an estimate  of 
this cost and refund  it to Mrs B. She should be given  a chance to dispute this amount and if 
she doesnt accept  it I think it would be fair for her to supply three quotes herself to Close  
Brothers and for them to pay the lowest estimate.
my provisional decision
So Im expecting to uphold this complaint in part and tell Close Brothers  Limited to refund  the 
cost of rear brake disc and pad replacement; refund £84 of storage costs and pay Mrs B 
£250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
Close brothers didnt  respond but Mrs B did and she agreed with my findings.  So my final 
decision remains unaltered.
Ref: DRN28189035my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and tell Close Brothers Limited to refund the cost of rear brake 
disc and pad replacement; refund £84 of storage costs and pay Mrs B £250 to compensate 
her for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2818903