K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr H took out a secured personal loan with Halifax in 1993 and PPI was added to his 
account at the same  time.  It wouldve covered Mr Hs loan repayments  for up to 12 months if 
he lost his job and for up to 60 months if he couldnt  work because of sickness  or an 
accident.
Mr H says he cant remember anything about the sale, because  it was so long ago. But he 
says he had good sick pay and so didnt  need it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Hs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr H disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax needed to make it clear to Mr H he had a choice about PPI and get his agreement to 
it. As Ive mentioned,  Mr H doesnt remember anything about the sale  and this doesnt 
surprise me, given how long ago it was. On top of this, Halifax doesnt have any of the PPI 
paperwork for Mr Hs sale  which,  for the same reason, doesnt surprise  me, especially 
since businesses arent required  to keep paperwork from so far back.  However, from what 
we as a service know about how Halifax  sold PPI at the time, it was usual for it to make  it 
clear to customers they had a choice about  PPI and get their agreement to it. 
The information I have  about this sale is very limited. And it isnt enough information to make 
me think its likely  Halifax  didnt follow its usual  sales process in Mr Hs case. So I havent 
seen enough to make me think Halifax added PPI to Mr Hs account  without  his knowledge 
and consent.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr H so it had to make  sure it was right for him. 
From what  he says of his circumstances at the time and the policy  details Halifax has given 
us, I think it was. I say this because:
Mr H was eligible for the PPI. And I dont think he wouldve been affected by any of 
the main things the policy  didnt cover, for example unusual employment  terms or 
known medical conditions. So there  was nothing to stop him claiming on the PPI if 
hed needed  to.
Ref: DRN25159082Mr H says he wouldve got very good sick pay from his employer if he was unwell. 
The PPI wouldve  covered  Mr Hs loan repayments for up to 12 months if he lost his 
job and for up to 60 months  if he had an accident or became too ill to work. And this 
wouldve been in addition  to his sick pay. So I think the PPI gave him useful 
protection. Mr H also says he couldve got help from family and friends. But this sort 
of assistance  isnt guaranteed and isnt the same  as having an insurance policy to fall 
back on if things  get difficult.  So it doesnt change  my conclusions  on this point.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the cover was unaffordable  for him. 
As well as making sure the policy was right for Mr H, Halifax  also had to give him enough  
clear information about it so he could decide if he wanted to buy it. Its possible some of the 
information Halifax gave  Mr H wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But for the reasons Ive 
given above about why I think  the policy was right for him, I dont  think  clearer information (if 
it had been needed) wouldve stopped Mr H buying  it. 
I dont think Mr H has lost out because of anything Halifax may have  done  wrong,  so theres  
nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2515908