K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  with the way Barclays Bank  UK PLC treated him during a branch visit. 
background
Mr F visited a Barclays branch on 23 November 2018 to deposit  money.  Barclays said that 
as it didnt hold a telephone number or email  address for him, the staff member was 
prompted to request this information  from him. And this was to hold for security  purposes.  
Mr F said that Barclays refused to return his card until he gave a contact number. But he 
didnt, and still doesnt, want Barclays to have his telephone number. 
Mr F was unhappy that hed been  asked to give his contact details in branch and contacted  
Barclays by telephone the same  day to make a complaint. But Barclays  didnt log the 
complaint until 11 December 2018  when  Mr F got in contact  again. It said this happened 
because the usual way it processes complaints involves making a call to the customer, 
which Mr F didnt  want to happen. But it acknowledges it shouldve dealt with this differently 
and said it has arranged  for feedback to be given around this. 
Barclays offered £40 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the situation and a 
further £20 to cover the cost of the telephone calls. It also gave  feedback to the branch 
involved to explain that it shouldve accepted that Mr F didnt want  to provide a telephone 
number. And it said it had put a note on its system to say that Mr F didnt  wish to be 
contacted by telephone  or to provide  any telephone numbers. 
Our investigator considered this case and thought that Barclays  offer was fair. But Mr F 
disagreed. He thought a compensation payment of £250 would be more appropriate. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I acknowledge that Mr F found  this to be a distressing experience, I think Barclays  
offer is fair in the circumstances.  Ill explain  why. 
Barclays has apologised for what went wrong here. It agrees with Mr F that it shouldnt  have  
asked him to provide his telephone number when he didnt wish to do so and that it should  
have logged his complaint  earlier. So the disagreement here is about the amount of 
compensation its offered to reflect the impact of its actions, not about whether something  
went wrong.
Barclays didnt provide Mr F with the level of service hed expected to receive in branch or in 
the follow-up communication. There isnt sufficient evidence to know  exactly what happened 
in the exchange between  Mr F and Barclays. However, it doesnt seem unreasonable that 
Barclays ideally wanted to have additional security material  in place (particularly as it might 
be held liable for any lost funds if the account or card were later misused by a third party).  
But, based on whats been said, it seemingly went too far when trying to obtain  this 
information.
Ref: DRN25321212Ive thought about the impact this had on Mr F. Its important to note that our service isnt 
here to punish  businesses  but to award  compensation  for actual loss or damage (whether 
financial or otherwise).  Nor is it here to regulate  a businesss internal processes or 
commercial judgments.  So its not for me to say that Barclays shouldnt  choose to ask 
customers for their telephone numbers. Its not an inherently unreasonable  request  and not 
contrary to any law or contractual provision of which Im aware.  On the contrary,  it seems  
like a sensible security measure to protect both parties. But Mr F clearly  found this situation  
distressing, so I think the branch staff should  have recognised this and tried to find a way of 
achieving an outcome that was mutually acceptable.
Im satisfied that Mr F hasnt lost out financially as a result of what Barclays  did. And, while  
Barclays shouldve logged  the complaint before  it did, Mr F received a final response letter 
well within the timeframe  Barclays  is allowed (eight weeks). So, on balance,  I do think that 
£40 is fair compensation for the distress or inconvenience caused by what  happened here, 
plus £20 to cover the cost of the telephone calls. 
my final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has made  an offer to pay £40 compensation, plus £20 to cover  call 
costs. I conclude that such an offer is fair in the circumstances. My decision is that Barclays  
should pay Mr F £60  if it hasnt already done  so  within 28 days of receiving notice of his 
acceptance of my decision. 
Mr F should note that if he accepts  my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties and he 
probably then wouldnt  be able to take legal action over this matter  for additional  
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between him and Barclays as to whether  the offer still remains 
open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding  on the offeror after rejection of 
it has been communicated. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2532121