K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that he got poor service from Europa Group  Limited when he asked  for the 
date of the payment for his motorcycle insurance  policy to be changed.
background
Mr C told us he called Europa on 18 June 2018  to cancel  his policy and an advisor told him 
hed have to do that after the date his monthly  direct debit was due. He also said the advisor 
agreed to change the date of the direct debit, but didnt  do so. As the payment wasnt  made 
on the due date, Mr C was charged a default fee by his credit  provider. Mr C says he spoke 
to the same  advisor  again and she said if he wanted to speak to a manager hed have to call 
back. Mr C said when  he did so, he was told to call the credit provider  but it told him to go 
back to Europa.  Europa then said hed be called within three  days, but that didnt  happen. 
Mr C says the advisor wrongly told him shed logged  a complaint he made during a call on 
25 June 2018.  The policy was cancelled in July 2018 with a payment owing on it. In 
December 2018  he got a letter from Europa  about debt collectors  having  been instructed to 
pursue him for the sum owed.  He said thered been  no prior contact from it for five months,  
which he thought  was poor service.
Europa said Mr C called  it on 18 June  2018  purely to change the date of his direct  debit 
payment. It said the advisor told him he couldnt  do that until the payment on 20 June 2018 
had cleared, so he should  call back after that. Europa said it was advised by Mr Cs credit  
provider on 22 June  2018 that the payment had been returned by his bank as unpaid. So 
Europa wrote to Mr C to say the policy would be cancelled. As the credit  provider was 
unable to collect the payment for a second time, the policy  was cancelled on 25 July 2018. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Cs complaint. Mr C accepted  he owed a payment on 
the policy, but he was unhappy  that Europa  took so long to chase him for it. He said if hed 
had a letter  in from it August  2018  hed have complained to us then. Mr C also said he never  
got a promised call from a manager, and that letters he sent to Europa in July 2018 werent 
acknowledged. He wasnt happy with the time it took to deal with his concerns.
Our investigator contacted Europa  to clarify  the issues. It said Mr C hadnt tried to cancel his 
policy. It was cancelled  due to the outstanding payment, which Europa had advised Mr C to 
settle. It didnt accept that there were  any delays  in the way it dealt with Mr Cs concerns.
The investigator reviewed  Europas case file and listened to the calls it provided. He said the 
advisor hadnt agreed to change the date of the direct debit, or promised a call back from a 
manager. He noted that the sum due in June  2018 was collected  from Mr Cs bank account 
in August 2018. But Mr C got his bank to recall the payment.  Europa  only found out about it 
in November 2018  hence the gap in chasing  Mr C. Mr C then disputed that there  were  no 
funds to meet the direct debit  in June 2018.  He said he stopped  the payment because  a 
business whose  name he didnt know tried to collect the funds. He also disputed the date his 
monthly payment  was due. He said Europa had passed his concerns to others rather  than 
deal with them. And he said we should look into the unanswered letters he sent to Europa.
  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
Ref: DRN28903602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the call recordings, I think its clear that Mr C was mistaken  in thinking the advisor  he 
spoke to on 18 June  2018 had agreed  to change the date of his direct debit. She said he 
should call back after the pending direct debit  was paid. Mr C didnt do that, possibly 
because he misunderstood the situation.  If thats  the case, I dont think  it would be fair to say 
that the advisor caused the confusion.  I think what she said was clear.  The call also shows 
that she didnt  say shed get a manager to call Mr C. She said shed ask a manager if the 
manager would contact the credit  provider, which is what Mr C had asked  her to do. 
I cant see how Europa contacting the credit provider would have assisted Mr C in the way 
he seems to think anyway. All Europa could have said was that it hadnt  agreed to change  
the date of the direct debit - not that it had agreed  to do so. Thats  what  Mr C wanted it to 
say. He hoped the credit provider might then refund the default charge it had made. 
Mr C has suggested that he was passed from one business to another because Europa 
didnt want to deal with his situation.  I dont think thats the case.  Mr C may well have been 
confused about the roles of the insurer, the credit  provider  and Europa.  I think many  
consumers are confused  by the way businesses work together  or the names businesses 
use. But I dont  think any confusion on Mr Cs part was Europas fault. Mr C said he stopped 
the payment as he was concerned about which business was taking money from his 
account. But Mr C could  simply  have  queried  the issue with Europa rather  than stopping the 
payment. And Europa has confirmed that the reason given by Mr Cs bank for the direct 
debit not being paid was insufficient funds. 
If Mr C was concerned about the default charge, only the credit provider could assist  him, so 
I dont think it was wrong for Europa to suggest  calling it. If the credit provider gave Mr C 
poor service (such  as not calling him back) thats  not something  for Europa to address.  
I think Europa can show that it did all it could to assist Mr C. It wrote  to him three times in 
July 2018 warning him of the cancellation  and giving him the chance  to pay the sum due. 
When the policy was finally  cancelled, Europa  gave him notice that it would try to collect  the 
payment due for June 2018  in seven days.  The payment was collected  on 2 August  2018, so 
as far as Europa  was concerned, that was the end of the matter. It didnt know  Mr Cs bank 
had recalled the payment  on his instruction - until November 2018. I think that explains 
why it didnt contact  him until December 2018. And I cant see how Mr C was disadvantaged 
by that anyway. If Europa had known earlier that the debt was still owed, it would have 
instructed debt collectors earlier, so Mr C would have been no better  off.
Mr C thinks his complaint wasnt dealt with properly either, but I dont think theres any 
evidence of that. I think hes mistaken in believing he made  a complaint when he spoke to 
Europas advisor on 25 June 2018. Mr C asked  to speak to a manager, but he didnt say 
anything about  making a complaint. I think the call recording shows  he wanted  to explain his 
situation to someone  else, as the advisor didnt accept what  he was saying. Theres  nothing 
to suggest that he followed up that call to enquire what  was happening with a complaint. 
Ref: DRN28903603On 7 July 2018 Mr C called Europa and spoke to a second advisor. He queried the letter 
hed had from Europa to say his policy was to be cancelled. Mr C told the advisor that hed 
called on 18 June 2018 and the advisor  he spoke to then had agreed to change the date of 
the direct  debit. He also said that in a second call with the first advisor, hed logged a 
complaint. The second advisor  checked the call notes and told Mr C that according  to 
Europas records, that wasnt the case.  He logged a complaint for Mr C that day. He also 
volunteered to get a manager  to call Mr C, who accepted the offer.  
Theres no evidence that a manager called  Mr C at that point, but Europa wrote  to Mr C on 
11 July 2018 to say it was dealing with his complaint. It wrote  to him again  on 17 July 2018 
to say the same. Europa has provided a recording of a call made to Mr C from it that day. 
The caller  left a message  asking Mr C to call Europa urgently, but it seems Mr C didnt do 
so. If Mr C didnt  get a call from a manager prior to 17 July 2018, I can see why he would 
have been disappointed by that. But Europa  was dealing with his complaint and I think  it did 
so promptly, so I dont  think thats  enough to merit a compensation payment.  
I dont think Mr C has been able to show that there were any delays on Europas  part in 
administering his policy or in dealing with his complaint. Mr C says he wrote to it twice  in 
July 2018 but got no response to either  of his letters. We asked Europa about  that and it said 
it hadnt received  any letters from Mr C. He says he sent them by post, but when we asked 
about proof of posting, Mr C said he didnt have any. So theres nothing to show  that Europa 
got the letters and ignored them.
In my opinion, Mr C hasnt been  able to show that Europa provided him with poor service. As 
I dont think theres any evidence that it acted unreasonably, I cant uphold  Mr Cs complaint.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2890360