K821x#15complaint
Miss A complains that advice from Whitehead Group Limited  (Whitehead)  to transfer her 
final salary  occupational pension  (OPS)  benefits  to a personal pension plan (PPP) in 
1994 was not reviewed  as part of the industry-wide pensions review  directed by the then 
industry regulator in 2000.  
Miss  A complains  that she may have  been  financially  disadvantaged  by unsuitable  advice.
background
In 1994, Miss A was advised  by Whitehead to transfer the accrued benefits from her OPS to 
a PPP.
Miss A gave Whitehead a deferred benefits statement, from her OPS, which  showed  her 
OPS benefits at April 1994.  It showed  a revalued pension  of £9,740.88 per year payable 
from 1 July 2014 for a minimum  of five years.  
The OPS  benefits  also had a death after retirement spouses pension  of £6,493.92 a year 
plus a lump sum of any outstanding balance of the five year guarantee. 
A letter from May 1994 from Whitehead confirmed the transfer form was sent to Scottish 
Life. It says an investment growth rate (critical yield)  of 10.5% per year was needed to 
improve on the OPS  scheme benefits.
I have seen an application form signed  the same day in May 1994  showing the transfer  
value of £23,870. And a welcome letter from Scottish Life in July 1994  saying  the application 
had been processed.
I have also seen Whitehead letters from 2000  to Miss A about the industry wide pension 
review. They  show a review was started in 2000 but not completed.  
Our adjudicator considered Miss As complaint. He concluded that as the Pension  Review 
was not completed  Miss As complaint should  be upheld.
He said that if a loss was then shown, Whitehead should compensate Miss A as required by 
the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority. 
Both parties  to this complaint were sent the adjudicators view.
But as there  has been  no communication from Whitehead either  before  or after the 
adjudicator issued his view, to Miss A or to this service, the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide if this complaint falls 
within the jurisdiction  of this service.
I have concluded  it does for reasons  set out below. 
I have also decided it is appropriate, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, to depart 
from our usual practice to not address in a final decision jurisdiction and merits issues.  
Ref: DRN28691992There is persuasive evidence, by way of Royal Mail receipts  signed  by a former  director of 
Whitehead, that it has received Miss As complaint. 
However, it has not responded to her complaint. It has also not responded to any 
communication from the Financial Ombudsman  Service.
In these circumstances, our rules say that I have discretion to reach my final decision on the 
merits of a complaint  from the evidence and information that is available, notwithstanding  
that it has been provided only by the complainant. 
In this case, I am exercising that discretion.  But first, I consider it appropriate to comment  on 
the jurisdiction of this service to consider the merits of this complaint and so the context in 
which I am exercising my discretion to decide its merits.
our jurisdiction to consider  Miss As complaint  
Whitehead has not given  Miss A its final response  to her complaint (as required in our 
rules) so the six month time limit does not apply. 
As the transfer  falls within the pension review  population, as defined under the terms of the 
industry wide pension  review, it also cannot be time barred on the six and three year rule 
as set out in DISP 2.8.2.
This is because in the circumstances  of Miss As complaint, where a review was not 
completed, DISP  2.8.5R  says:
The six-year and the three-year time limits do not apply where:
(2)  the complaint concerns a contract or policy which is the subject of a review directly or 
indirectly under:
(a)the terms of the Statement of Policy on 'Pension  transfers and Opt-outs' issued  by the 
FSA on 25 October 1994; or
(b)the terms of the policy statement for the review  of specific categories  of FSAVC  business  
issued by the FSA on 28 February 2000.
My view is that only the outcome of a completed review would  inform Miss A if she had 
cause for concern or not. But the review  was not completed.
So I agree with our adjudicator that this complaint is within our jurisdiction, notwithstanding 
the passage of time since the advice was given. 
I am aware  that Whitehead Group Limited,  since the advice was given, has undergone 
several name changes. I am also aware  that its Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
authorisation ceased in 2014. 
But generally speaking, a firm remains responsible for complaints about events and 
activities which occurred when it was authorised, even if the firm is no longer authorised to 
carry out investment business and/or it has stopped trading.
Ref: DRN28691993This reflects the general principle that peopl e and firms providing professional services 
cannot just walk away from their responsibilities and duty of care to their clients.
Accordingly, I am satisfied  this service has jurisdiction to consider the merits of this 
complaint.
A firms  failure to co-operate with us, on the grounds  that it is no longer trading or authorised, 
does not prevent us from investigating the merits of a complaint against  it. 
Nor does  it prevent us from issuing a final decision with or without the input  of the firm in 
question. 
Our final decision will be legally binding on the firm, if accepted by the complainant. The firm 
will then be liable to pay the complainant any award  we may make against it.
the merits of Miss As complaint
I have carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the merits of this complaint.
The pensions review period was between  29th April 1988  and 30th June 1994. The advice 
and application to transfer was made and completed in May 1994. 
So this advice and transfer  falls within the review  period. The evidence  we have on file 
indicates a review was started. But there is no evidence the review  was completed.  
So if the advice  and transfer had been found unsuitable, Miss As plan should  have  been  
uplifted by any compensation  as required by the guidance.  
But as the review  was not completed  Miss  A does  not know  if the advice  she received  in 
1994  was suitable  for her circumstances.
On that basis  alone,  I have  decided  to uphold  Miss  As complaint.
In this case, notwithstanding the name changes and cessation of FCA authorisation, the 
entity that was originally  Whitehead Group  Partners  Limited, which advised Miss A in 1994,  
appears still to be in existence and with assets in its balance  sheet.  
I say this because  Whitehead Group Partners Limited had a Companies House registration 
number of 2009447. That same number  has applied to its various incarnations both before 
and after its FCA authorisation ceased  in 2014.
 It now applies to an entity called WGL Altrincham Limited.
Companies House  records  show that at the last balance sheet date of 30 June 2016,  WGL 
Altrincham Limited had net assets of £168,989.
Miss A has approached  the Financial  Services  Compensation  Scheme (FSCS) to ask it to 
consider her complaint. It has declined to do so.
It can only accept complaints against firms  it has declared in default. But as WGL Altrincham 
Limited appears to have  net assets,  FSCS  cannot declare it in default. 
Ref: DRN28691994I appreciate this leaves  Miss A in a difficult position,  not least in enforcing the terms of an 
uphold decision this service may issue. We have no power to enforce our decisions. That is 
a matter for the courts and the industry  regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority.
If firms refuse to calculate or pay redress as directed by this service,  then complainants  must 
revert to the courts to enforce our decision. I understand that this may prove an onerous  and 
time consuming process for Miss A.
But I trust my final decision here will be helpful  to Miss A in bringing her complaint to a 
satisfactory resolution.
For the reasons  set out above, I have decided that the advice to transfer Miss As OPS 
benefits in 1994 must  now be reviewed in accordance with the regulators latest guidance for 
such reviews.
what must Whitehead  Group Limited (now WGL Altrincham Limited)  do?
In determining  redress, my view is that a fair outcome would be for Whitehead to put Miss A, 
as far as possible, into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable  advice.
Whitehead  Group Limited must undertake a redress  calculation in line with the pension 
review  methodology, as amended by the Financial  Conduct Authority  in October  2017.
This calculation should be carried out using the most  recent  financial  assumptions  published 
by the FCA at the date of the actual calculation. Whitehead Group Limited may wish to 
contact the Department for Work  and Pensions  (DWP) to obtain Miss As contribution history 
to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a 'SERPS  adjustment' in the calculation,  to take 
into account the impact of leaving the occupational  scheme  on Miss A's SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If this shows a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid into Miss A's 
pension plan. The payment should  allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
The compensation shouldn't be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isn't possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss A as a lump sum after making  a deduction to reflect  the rate 
of income tax Miss A pays or is likely to pay in retirement.
This is because  the payment would otherwise have been used to provide pension benefits,  
which would have been  taxed according to her likely tax paying status in retirement.  My 
understanding is that the rate applicable  to Miss A would be 20%.
25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have  been taxed.  So making a notional  
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Our award  limit for complaints brought to us before 1 April 2019 is £150,000. Where total fair 
compensation requires payment of an amount  that might exceed £150,000, we may 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
Ref: DRN28691995The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to
Miss A within  90 days of the date Whitehead Group Limited receives  notification of her 
acceptance of my decision.  
Further interest should  be added to the compensation  amoun t at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of this decision the date of settlement  for any time, in excess  of 90 
days, that it takes Whitehead Group  Limited  to pay Miss  A this compensation.
It's possible that data gathering for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual  time 
taken  to settle goes  beyond the 90 day period allowed  for settlement above. 
So any period where the only outstanding item required  to undertake the calculation  is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest won't apply.
If Miss A accepts my final decision, the money  award of up to £150,000  would be binding  
on Whitehead  Group Limited.  Our recommendation for the amount over £150,000  would 
not be binding.  
Further, it's unlikely that Miss A can accept a final decision  and go to court  to ask for the 
balance of the compensation  owing to her after the money  award has been paid. 
Miss A may want to consider  getting independent  legal  advice before deciding  whether to 
accept my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Whitehead Group Limited (now WGL Altrincham Limited) must  review its advice in 1994 to 
Miss A, taking account  of the latest guidance from the regulator  in respect of such  reviews. 
If a loss is shown, it must redress  her as I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2019.                        .
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2869199