K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Miss D says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays), trading as Barclaycard mis-sold her 
the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss D says she cant remember  being offered or taking out PPI  and so knew nothing  
about it. Barclays have  given  me a copy of Miss Ds signed credit application form. On it 
theres a section for PPI, and I can see a ticks  been made against where it says Yes, 
please can I apply  for Barclaycard Payment Protection. So because of that, I think  
Barclays made it clear that Miss D didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Miss D so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss D about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss D has said - but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2327335