K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that his account  wasnt credited  when he returned an item to Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited (trading as Very).
background
In July 2018 Mr M placed an order for a Samsung  Galaxy S9 Plus phone with Very. The cost 
of the phone was £869.00.
Mr M says the phone he received was a Samsung  Edge S7. He sent the phone back  to Very 
and contacted them to explain what had happened.
Very applied an advance  credit to Mr Ms account. Following inspection of the phone  it was 
found that Mr M had returned a different phone to the model  he had ordered. Very also said 
that the phone returned  by Mr M had been used.
Very sent the phone back to Mr M and reversed the credit on his account.  Mr M returned the 
phone to Very for a second time. Very inspected the phone again and found that Mr M had 
returned a different phone  to the model he had ordered.
Very advised Mr M that the phone wasnt eligible for a refund. The phone was returned  to 
him.
Mr M is unhappy  that Very hasnt  credited  his account. He says he received an incorrect 
item. Hes refused to make payments to his account and he wants  the adverse information 
removed from his credit file.
Very says it doesnt believe it made a mistake. It says that Mr M ordered an S9 and was 
supplied with an S9 but that he returned a used S7.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said it was more likely than not that a 
Samsung S9 was sent to Mr M and that Very had acted reasonably in refusing  to credit 
Mr Ms account because he returned a different  phone to the one he received. The 
investigator also said that because Mr M hadnt been making payments on his account, Very 
had a duty to report this to the credit  reference agencies.
Mr M didnt  agree. He said that hed been sent incorrect items  before but that Very had 
always refunded  him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M and Very disagree about whether  he received an S9 or an S7 phone. In order  to 
decide what phone Mr M received I need to look at all of the available evidence and 
determine, on the balance of probabilities, whether Mr M received  an S9 or an S7.
Very has provided a screenshot from its system which shows an item code which  
corresponds with the item code for an S9. If, as Mr M suggests, Very had sent an S7, I 
Ref: DRN23370052would have expected to see the item code for an S7. But this isnt what the system shows. 
Based on the computer  records  I think its more likely than not that an S9 was sent to Mr M.
Ive taken account of what  Mr M has said about receiving an incorrect item in the past in 
respect of which his account was credited.
Whilst it may be the case that Mr M has received an incorrect  item before, I havent seen 
enough information to be certain  that this was because  of a mistake  by Very. Even if Very 
has made a mistake in the past and sent an incorrect  item to Mr M, this doesnt mean that 
Very has made a mistake  this time.  Very has explained  that the item previously returned by 
Mr M was the same  item as he ordered, so there  was no issue about crediting his account  
on that occasion.
On balance and based on the available information I think its more  likely than not that Very 
sent Mr M an S9.
Mr M hasnt  been willing  to make payment to his account. Very has recorded late payments 
on his credit file as a result of this. I understand why Mr M has decided not to make 
payments. However,  Im unable to say that Very has done  anything wrong, because it has a 
duty to report accurate  information to the credit reference agencies. Im satisfied that the 
information reported by Very is an accurate reflection of Mr Ms account and therefore I wont 
be asking Very to remove it from Mr Ms credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2337005