K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a charge 
card. Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill 
refer to Allianz as the seller to keep  things simple. Mrs W says Allianz mis-sold her the PPI 
policy on her charge card. 
Mrs W bought the policy  in 1995 at the same  time as taking out the card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ws credit agreement. In it, there was a separate  section relating to 
PPI. It included a brief description  of the PPI and it set out some basic cost details. I can see 
the box requesting  cover  has been ticked and Mrs Ws name  and date of birth have been 
placed in the PPI section  to confirm the cover was for her. Shes  then signed this form. 
And looking at the way the form was set out, I think Mrs W would have understood what  she 
was applying for, and wouldve known that she could say no to the cover if she didnt want  it. 
I also note that the premiums for the PPI appeared on Mrs Ws account statements,  so if it 
wasnt something that she had agreed to take then I think  she would have questioned it 
when the premiums were  taken from her account. 
So with all Ive seen,  I think Allianz  made  it clear Mrs W had a choice about taking the PPI, 
and she chose to take it, knowing  she didnt have  to.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think Allianz recommended the PPI to Mrs W so it 
didnt have to check it was right for her. But it did have to give her enough clear information  
so she could decide if she wanted to take it. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mrs W was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any 
of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
Based on what I know about Mrs Ws circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been 
useful to her. Mrs W has said she was entitled to some sick pay at the time, but this policy  
couldve paid out 15% of her monthly balance  on top of any sick pay until her balance was 
repaid if she was off work. It also could have provided the same cover if she became 
unemployed. So I think she couldve found the policy to be useful. 
With this in mind, I dont think better information  wouldve  stopped her buying  it. And I dont 
think that Mrs W has lost out as a result  of anything Allianz mightve  done  wrong.  
Ref: DRN20939482my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2093948