K821x#15complaint
Mrs R says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. The policy was taken out in 2002 when Mrs R applied for a new 
credit card. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already told Mrs R that they didnt think her mis-sale complaint 
should be upheld.  However, before going  in to more detail, Id like to point out that Ive 
noticed Mrs R doesnt appear to have ever had a significant outstanding  balance on this 
particular credit card. As PPI charges are calculated on the basis  of the outstanding monthly 
balance, I dont think Mrs R would have  ever incurred many  PPI charges.
This doesnt affect the merits of whether or not Mrs Rs PPI was mis-sold to her. But
Halifax has now offered  to give back to Mrs R some of the cost of the PPI and if she 
accepts, it will calculate what this might  be. Id just like to point out that as the amount of 
PPI ever charged to Mrs R looks to have  been very low, the offer from Halifax might  be 
based on that.
The company representing Mrs R still thinks the PPI was mis-sold in the first place and has 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs mis-sale  complaint.
Weve seen a few similar cases  to this and as a consequence, we now know  quite  a bit 
about how the sales processes normally worked  and the type of paperwork that was used 
during the course of these  particular  sales. We know, for example, that consumers usually  
spoke with a Halifax adviser to discuss  their requirements and as a result of that discussion 
a credit agreement was then drawn up for the consumer to check and sign.
We were sent a copy of Mrs Rs agreement and I can see a box about PPI was selected on 
the form. We know the sale was carried out in a branch, so I think  the PPI being chosen in 
this way would have been done as a result  of the conversation Ive mentioned above. Mrs R 
also signed the agreement, so I think this shows she asked for the cover.
So whilst I accept this is all quite a long time ago, I think its more likely Halifax got Mrs Rs 
consent for the PPI.  
Halifax concedes this was probably an advised sale. This means it had a duty to make  sure 
the PPI was suitable for Mrs R. I think it was.
Based on the income Mrs R declared on her credit card application form I think she was 
employed for enough hours per week  to be eligible for the PPI. Also,  I dont think  that shed 
have been caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies.
Ref: DRN29484522The monthly cost of the policy  was 78p per £100 of the outstanding balance  which  was 
comparable with similar policies I know were sold around that time. Ive got no evidence to 
suggest this was unaffordable for Mrs R. 
Mrs R says she got sick pay with her job at the time and she had some savings. Ive thought 
about these things but Im afraid  they dont necessarily mean  the PPI wasnt of any use. In 
the event of a successful  claim for example, the PPI could have paid out 10% of her 
outstanding credit card balance for up to a year. So having very carefully considered 
everything Mrs R has told us, overall I think the policy was suitable for her.
Halifax also had a duty to make  sure the information it provided was clear enough for Mrs R 
to make an informed decision.  She says it wasnt and I obviously cant say she was told 
everything she should have been told. But as Ive said, I think there would have been a 
discussion about the policy and how it worked.  I also think Mrs R would have been given 
something explaining the policy rules.
All this means I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading  as Halifax 
doesnt need to refund everything Mrs R paid for it. But its offered to give her back  some  of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  Bank of Scotland Plc will make  
these arrangements now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt already done so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint about the mis-sale. I dont 
direct Bank of Scotland  Plc to do anything more  than the above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2948452