K820x#14complaint
Mr M had a car insurance policy he took out through an underwriting agency. The agency 
arranged and administered the policy on behalf of AXA Insurance Designated Activity 
Company. Mr M dealt with the underwriting agency, but I will refer to AXA throughout my 
decision as the agencys actions were  all carried out on behalf of AXA.
Mr M complains that AXA avoided his policy because he wasnt a resident of Northern 
Ireland, although  he maintained he was. He is also unhappy that AXA didnt accept his 
explanation regarding his place of residence.
background
In October  2018, Mr M was stopped  by the police while  driving in the Republic of Ireland. 
The police contacted AXA to confirm Mr M was insured. They told AXA that Mr M was a 
resident of the Republic  and not of Northern Ireland (NI) as stated on his driving licence. And 
they provided other information which suggested he was resident in the Republic. Because 
his policy  was only available to residents of NI, AXA said Mr M had provided  incorrect 
information when  he took out his policy. So, they avoided the policy (cancelled it as if it had 
never existed). The avoidance was added to the Claims  and Underwriting  Exchange  (CUE) 
database, a national insurance database,  so impacted the cost of insurance  for Mr M 
elsewhere.
Mr M complained to AXA. He said he lives and spends most of this time in NI. But he travels 
to the Republic because he has family  there and he rents  a property there . AXA repeated 
that Mr M had provided incorrect information at the outset, so theyd avoided  his policy.  Mr M 
then complained to us.
In April 2019, our investigator  sent out his first view. He said he had to decide whether AXAs 
decision to avoid Mr Ms policy was reasonable based on the evidence  they had about his 
residency. And since the information  which suggested Mr M wasnt a resident of NI, had 
been provided by the police, he felt it was reasonable for AXA to rely on it. So, he thought  
AXAs decision to avoid  the policy was reasonable.
Mr M responded with further evidence and arguments to explain  that although hed been 
working in the Republic,  he was resident in NI. We put all these to AXA who didnt dispute  
Mr M had lived in NI at some stage but said the police had provided compelling evidence 
that hed been a resident  of the Republic since 2003 .
In May 2019, our investigator sent out a further view. He explained  that Mr M had to be a 
resident of NI to be eligible for that particular  insurance policy. So, when AXA were told he 
was a resident  of the Republic, they avoided the policy. Our investigator said because  AXA 
were relying  on evidence from an official body, he didnt think  theyd acted incorrectly or 
unreasonably. Our investigator also noted  that Mr M had provided  various  pieces of 
evidence to show he was resident in NI. But because  he hadnt been  able to explain away all 
the evidence which showed he was resident in the Republic, he still didnt think AXA had 
acted unreasonably.
Mr M didnt  agree with our view. So, now the case has come  to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN24106352my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers  to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard  
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies available, provided  the 
misrepresentation is - what  CIDRA  describes as - a qualifying  misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show  it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt  made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding  whether  the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying  misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AXA thinks  Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when  he 
was asked where he lived and he told them that he lived in NI. And this allowed them  to 
avoid his policy.
In deciding whether  Mr M took reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation or not when 
he took out his policy,  Ive looked  at the evidence available. Although Ive not seen the 
questions Mr M was asked about  residency, from what I have seen, and from what hes said, 
Im satisfied that he was asked where he lived. And Im also satisfied that he said he had 
lived at an address in NI address for 17 years.
So, notwithstanding the evidence Mr M provided  that did link him with the property, I think  
AXAs view that Mr M failed  to take reasonable care in answering the question because he 
didnt actually live in NI is reasonable.  Because  I think the evidence provided  by AXA which  
they got from the police  strongly suggests Mr M lived in the Republic not NI.
So, Im satisfied that Mr M failed to take reasonable care to not make a misrepresentation.
I also need to decide whether AXA would have offered Mr M cover  under different terms or 
at all, if he hadnt misrepresented. Ive looked at Mr Ms policy  documentation and the 
acceptance criteria.  And under the terms of the underwriting acceptance criteria, it clearly  
states: This  policy is only available to residents of Northern Ireland.
So, Im satisfied that Mr M had to be a resident of NI to take out this policy.  And Im satisfied 
that if AXA had known he wasnt resident in NI, they wouldnt  have provided the policy in the 
first place.
So, Im satisfied that what Mr M told AXA was a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. 
So, it did make  a difference. And therefore AXAs decision  to avoid the policy  was 
reasonable because it wouldnt have provided  cover.
I also need to decide whether Mr Ms misrepresentation was deliberate, reckless or careless. 
This is significant because AXA can only retain a premium if a misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless.
Ref: DRN24106353I accept that Mr M did have a longstanding  connection with an address in NI and I can 
understand he might have  felt that it qualified  as his residence. So, Im satisfied  Mr Ms 
misrepresentation should be treated as a careless  one.
And having made enquiries of AXA, Im told that although they havent  actually classified  
Mr Ms misrepresentation at all. And the agent has confirmed that after the policy was 
avoided, Mr M was provided with a full refund of his premium in any case.  So, Im satisfied 
that AXA have  done the right thing here.
And as CIDRA  reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases,  I think  
AXAs decision to avoid  Mr Ms policy produces a fair and reasonable outcome  here.
In light of all this, I dont  think AXA did anything wrong, and I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2020
Simon Stanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2410635