K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way that their home insurance claim for theft following a 
burglary was handled by Society of Lloyds and with the settlement paid to them.
background
In October  2017 Mr and Mrs S suffered a burglary of their home.  A large  amount of jewellery  
was stolen as well as designer bags, accessories and some  electrical  goods.  They  made a 
claim to Lloyds who sent out a loss adjuster. She went through  with Mr and Mrs S the value 
of all the contents in the property, those stolen and those remaining. She concluded that the 
contents were substantially underinsured. The contents had been insured by Mr and Mrs S 
for £40,000, whereas it was estimated that their true value was around  £115,710. As a 
consequence Lloyds  said in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, it would reduce 
the claim by the amount it was underinsured.  The stolen contents were valued  at £59,710. 
The policy limit for jewellery and high risk items was £10,000. It paid a that figure  plus 
£11,757 for the other contents  stolen, a total of £21,757.
As regards  damage  to the building, it was thought  that the burglars had got in through the 
back door, so Lloyds agreed  to pay the cost of repair.  But based on the police report Mr and 
Mrs S said that both the front and back doors  had been damaged. Lloyds initially  declined to 
pay for the front door, believing it was damaged due to wear  and tear. 
Mr and Mrs S were  very unhappy that their claim had been reduced  they said that their 
estimates of the value  of the items stolen were  guesses when they were under  pressure.  
They have now reinsured with another provider  for substantially less than the amount Lloyds 
estimated their contents to be worth. They also complained of substantial  delays  in agreeing  
the claim.
Lloyds agreed  that there had been  delays. It agreed to pay £250, then on review  made  a 
further payment  of £100. It reassessed  the claim for the doors and offered to pay for both 
front and back doors to be repaired or to pay a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs S of £315.95.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Lloyds should pay a further  £100  
compensation in respect of the delay in dealing with the repair  of the doors.  He said however 
that he thought  Lloyds  had acted fairly in its settlement of the contents  claim.
Mr and Mrs S repeated their view that the value of their contents  had been overestimated  by 
Lloyds. They further pointed out that the loss adjuster had said the front door would be 
replaced at the first visit, so they think it unfair  that Lloyds has only offered to repair  it and 
has still failed to do anything about it. Mr and Mrs S have referred to the damage to the 
porch in their response to us but I understand from them that they mean damage to the door.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
contents claim
Ref: DRN23302722If it believes the contents were underinsured Lloyds  is entitled under  the terms of the policy 
to reduce the amount  it will pay out. In the general  terms and conditions  of the policy and in 
the section of the policy regarding settlement of claims it says:
Your insurer  may pay only part of the claim if at the time of loss or damage the sum insured 
figure is less than the amount required to replace  your contents as new or rebuild your 
property.
This type of condition  is fairly common to most home insurance policies. Mr and Mrs S took 
the policy out through a price comparison website, then through  a broker. I understand that 
the question asked was What is the total value of the contents in your home? I dont think 
they are disputing that they were asked  proper questions about  the value of their contents, 
rather they dispute that the contents were underinsured. But if they have an issue  with the 
questions, thats a matter they should take up with the broker.
I know Mr and Mrs S believe they were treated unfairly by the loss adjuster when they were 
asked to complete  a value at risk form for all their contents. But when its thought that the 
contents are underinsured this is a common procedure for insurers to go through.  When a 
consumer takes  out a policy they arent asked to carry out a full valuation  of their contents, 
rather they are asked to assess  the value of the contents of their home. So I dont think  it 
was unfair  for them to go through that procedure with Lloyds. After this exercise was carried 
out Mr and Mrs S produced a detailed list of the items stolen and their value where  they 
were able to provide it. The items  they provided  values for added  up to over £39,000, but 
this didnt include a good number of gold jewellery items. So I think that by their own 
estimates after the loss adjusters visit the £59,000 figure for items stolen seems to me to be 
a reasonable estimate. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs S have now got insurance for much less than the assessed 
value by Lloyds  of their contents. But I cant make a direct comparison, although they say 
most of their items stolen have been replaced.  At the time of the loss adjusters visit I 
understand that they were  under stress but they could've at any time after that provided  
further details  of their contents if they believed  they were properly insured. They  didnt do so. 
I think Lloyds fairly  estimated the value of their contents and it was entitled  to reduce the 
claim by the amount by which they were  underinsured.
claim for the doors 
There was some confusion about the doors.  Lloyds  initially  agreed to pay only for the repair 
to the back door and said the damage  to the front door was wear  and tear. Then in its final 
response it said it would pay for both doors  to be repaired or pay a cash  settlement. 
Because of the delay in dealing with that issue our investigator proposed that Lloyds pay a 
further £100 compensation and contact  Mr and Mrs S to agree the final settlement.
Whilst I think it would have been  helpful if Lloyds  had got on with dealing  with the repairs  to 
the doors it appears  that Lloyds was waiting for a final decision from this service before 
proceeding. I will require  Lloyds to take the necessary  action with regard to the doors.  
Mr and Mrs S believe the doors  should be replaced rather than repaired, but if they can be 
repaired Lloyds isnt obliged  to carry out a full replacement. Lloyds will have to assess this 
when it contacts Mr and Mrs S to agree a settlement.
delay
Ref: DRN23302723After the claim was assessed  and Mr and Mrs S had sent through  the necessary information, 
there were substantial delays. Essentially Lloyds had all the information necessary to 
proceed by 24 October 2017. Yet it took until 5 June 2018 for it to advise Mr and Mrs S of 
the proposed  settlement. I understand that underwriters had made a decision by March  2018 
but this wasnt  communicated to Mr and Mrs S until June. In the meantime they had to chase 
up for a response. A number of their emails  werent  responded to. 
Lloyds has paid a total of £350 to reflect the delays and I think  in the circumstances of the 
case that is fair. I dont  propose to increase that figure.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Society  of Lloyds to:
pay Mr and Mrs S a further £100 compensation, in addition to the £350 already paid.
settle their claim for the damage to the front and back doors.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2330272