K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP did not carry out proper affordability checks  
when lending to him. 
background
Mr D took 11 high-cost short-term loans  with Uncle Buck between January 2015 and July 
2017. The amounts ranged between £100 and £350. All of them were repayable through  
three instalments although the terms ranged  from 67 days to 96 days. All of the loans have 
been repaid. This table contains  some of the information Uncle Buck  has provided about 
Mr Ds loans.
 date taken amount date repaid
Loan 1 02/01/15 £100.00 13/03/15
Loan 2 14/03/15 £200.00 15/05/15
Loan 3 16/05/15 £350.00 14/08/15
Loan 4 06/09/15 £100.00 13/11/15
Loan 5 17/11/15 £150.00 15/02/16
Loan 6 17/02/16 £150.00 13/05/16
Loan 7 15/05/16 £100.00 15/08/16
Loan 8 11/09/16 £100.00 15/12/16
Loan 9 23/12/16 £100.00 15/03/17
Loan 10 23/03/17 £100.00 15/06/17
Loan 11 11/07/17 £100.00 15/09/17
One of our adjudicators recommended that Mr Ds complaint be upheld from the point he 
took Loan 5. Uncle Buck didnt agree but offered to refund the interest Mr D had paid in 
respect of Loans 8 to 11. Mr D declined Uncle Bucks offer and so, as the complaint hasnt 
been resolved  informally,  its come  to me  an ombudsman  for a final decision.  If Mr D 
accepts my decision it will be binding on the parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  provided  the loans in question  while  it was authorised  and regulated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA).
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with. These  included  PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: A firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC)  set out the rules  and guidance which  apply to 
credit providers like Uncle Buck when providing  loans. CONC  5 sets out a firms obligations 
in relation to responsible lending.  
Ref: DRN28383742Section 5.2.1R of CONC sets out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
borrower a loan saying:
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must undertake
an assessment of the creditworthiness of the customer.
And at Section  5.2.1(2) a lender had to consider:
(a) the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  is to 
be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of 
the regulated  credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable  period.
CONC also included guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) 
saying:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  
on, for example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought  and the potential  risks to 
the customer. The risk of credit not being  sustainable directly  relates  to the amount  of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit  relative  to the customers  financial 
situation.
CONC 5.3 contained further  guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking 
about affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) saying:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account  more than assessing the customers ability 
to repay  the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then added:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps  to assess the customers  ability to 
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner 
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse  
consequences.
CONC 5.3.1G(6) clarified  what is meant  by sustainable:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated 
credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue  difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments;
Ref: DRN28383743(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within  a reasonable period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and 
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
CONC 5.3.1G (4) added that if a firm does take account of income and expenditure in its 
credit worthiness assessment:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
(c) its assessment should be based  on what  the firm knows at the time of the 
assessment
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are some overarching  questions  I need  to consider in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint: 
1.Did Uncle Buck complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  itself that Mr D 
would be able to repay his loans  in a sustainable way? 
If so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
If not, would  those checks have shown that Mr D wouldve been able to do so?
2.Did Uncle Buck act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive outlined above some  of the regulations in place at the time Uncle  Buck provided the 
loans to Mr D. In summary, it had to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of 
whether he could afford to repay them  in a sustainable way. 
The checks  Uncle  Buck  did had to be proportionate  to the specific circumstances of the loan.  
And what is proportionate will depend on a number  of factors including things like the 
consumers financial history and current situation as well as things such  as the amount, type, 
cost of the credit being sought.
It is important  to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent  and scope and the types  and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough  to be able to reasonably  assess  the sustainability  
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other  words, the assessment needs  to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the Uncle Buck of not recovering its money but of the risk to the Mr D of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequence  as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC,  the risk to the consumer  directly  relates  to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would  likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
Ref: DRN28383744consumer might not be for another, or indeed  what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same  consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment  of creditworthiness  to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle Buck should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
So, Uncle Buck was required to establish  whether  Mr D could sustainably  repay  his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable  on this basis might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because  as I've set out above   CONC defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. 
It follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  what a reasonable and proportionate check  shouldve  looked like 
when Uncle  Buck was in the process of approving the loans for Mr D. 
It has shown me that it asked Mr D about his income and outgoings each time he borrowed 
from it. It also did some credit reference agency checks to confirm some  of the information 
Mr D had provided  as well as establish  his current credit  situation.
When Mr D applied for Loan 1 he declared a monthly income of £1,200 and expenses of 
£680, leaving a declared monthly  disposable  income from which to make his repayments of 
£520. The repayments were due to be around  £44 per month.  At this stage Uncle  Buck was 
already aware  that Mr D had a current county court judgment (CCJ)  from June 2013. And 
hed previously had one from 2012 which had been  satisfied in late 2014.  So although 
borderline, given the circumstances I've outlined, I dont think  I can safely conclude  that 
Ref: DRN28383745Uncle Buck  needed  to do more in its assessment at this stage. It was Mr Ds first loan for a 
relatively small amount.
But when Mr D came  back to Uncle Buck for Loan 2, one day after hed repaid his first loan it 
shouldve done  more to verify the information  it had. This loan was for double  the amount of 
his earlier  loan and the recent CCJ was still active on his credit file. Similarly he came back  
for Loan 3  the highest amount yet (£350) a day after he repaid  Loan 2. And although there  
was a break of around 23 day before Mr D took Loan 4 and this was for a smaller amount,  
this was his fourth loan in eight months.  Furthermore Mr D declared that he was only paying  
£50 towards credit when  Uncle Buck could see on his credit  file that he had 7 active  
accounts with outstanding  loan balances of £1,352. He also said he his monthly commitment 
to others was zero. 
With all of this information  in its possession at the point Mr D took Loans  2, 3 and 4 and 
thereafter Uncle Buck shouldve  been doing  far more to confirm  that he would be able to 
repay these  loans sustainably. But it continued to carry  out the same level of checks, relying 
heavily on what Mr D was saying about his circumstances. I dont have any information 
about what Uncle Buck wouldve found out had it done better checks  at the time of these 
earlier loans   so Im not upholding  Mr Ds complaint about  them.  But at the point Mr D took 
Loan 5 a pattern was emerging.
Im satisfied that at the point Mr D took Loan 5 Uncle Buck  should  reasonably  have 
concluded that further lending was unlikely to be sustainable for him. This was his fifth loan 
in just over 10 months with hardly  any breaks.  Loan 5 was for more than Loan 4 and was a 
taken four days after Loan 4 was repaid. So a pattern of borrowing shortly after an earlier 
loan was repaid  was now established.
Where Loan 4 had been taken over 67 days,  Loan 5 was over 91 days. And Uncle  Buck was 
aware that the CCJ I mention above  hadnt yet been  satisfied. And I note that Mr D declared 
a lower disposable income.  
At the point Mr D took Loan 5, Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was more likely than not 
he was having  to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in 
his finances and that his indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. He wasnt making  any 
real inroads  into how much he owed.  But he was continuing to pay high rates of interest in 
respect of the credit  Uncle  Buck was providing to him. 
I think that Mr D lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide him with credit  from Loan 
5 onwards. These loans had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging  Mr Ds indebtedness by 
allowing him to take expensive  credit  intended for short-term use. The sheer  number of 
loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Ds ability to access mainstream 
(and cheaper) credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans. Ive thought 
about everything Uncle Buck has told us in response to our adjudicators view but I'm not 
persuaded that it  as a regulated business   acted fairly when it provided Loans  5 to 11 to 
Mr D.
So, Im upholding  Mr Ds complaint about  Loans  5 to 11.
putting things right
Ref: DRN28383746Uncle Buck  shouldnt have given Mr D Loans 5 to 11 and should  put things right as set out 
below:
a)Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards  interest, fees and 
charges on these loans,
b)Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr D which were 
considered as part of a) calculated from the date he originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
c)Pay Mr D the total of a) plus b).
d)The overall pattern  of Mr Ds borrowing for these loans means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Uncle Buck should remove these loans entirely 
from Mr Ds credit  file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Mr D a certificate showing  how much  tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part and I require Uncle Buck  
Finance LLP to put things  right in the way Ive explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2838374