K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that RAC Insurance Limited  didnt attend his breakdown under his European 
roadside assistance policy. He wants compensation and an apology.
background
Mr O took out his cover shortly before he travelled  to Europe. When his car broke down, he 
called RAC  but it said no cover was in place, although Mr O had his documents in front of 
him. Matters became  heated,  and RAC  ended  the call and declined to provide further 
service. RAC later agreed that Mr O did have cover  but this hadnt  yet been updated on its 
system. It said it would  honour the cover and refund  Mr O for his repatriation and other 
expenses that would  have been covered  by the policy. But Mr O wasnt  happy with this.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought RAC could 
have handled  the call better  and confirmed that cover was in place and so avoided the 
problem. He thought RAC  had reasonably agreed to refund repatriation  and other  costs  in 
line with the policy terms subject to receipts being  provided. But he also thought it should 
pay Mr O £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr O replied that he wanted £2,500 compensation and his car restored. RAC questioned 
whether it could have  confirmed  Mr Os cover  at the time as it was outside office hours.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Os experience. I can understand that it must have been very 
upsetting and worrying having  broken down on a motorway with his family  in the early hours. 
I can see that RAC agrees that a mistake was made and that Mr O did have European 
breakdown cover when  he called for assistance.  As hed only recently taken this out, this 
wasnt visible on RACs system. And so RACs  advisor told Mr O that no cover was in place. 
But I agree  with the investigator that the advisor could have asked Mr O about  the 
documents he had that showed he had cover.  The advisor could have said that hed contact 
the insurer when  the office  was opened to confirm the cover. So I think RAC could have 
done more at the time to provide Mr O with the cover he was entitled  to and so avoid Mr O 
losing his temper and the family being left stranded. I can see that RAC  contacted  Mr O later 
in the day to confirm  that his cover was in place. By this time Mr O said he had paid for his 
recovery to a garage.
When a business  has made a mistake,  as RAC  has done here,  we expect it to restore the 
consumers position  to what it would have been without that mistake. RAC has agreed to 
honour the policy and pay for the repatriation  of Mr Os car and the familys expenses in line 
with the policys  terms and conditions and subject  to reasonable evidence of them.  I think 
thats fair and reasonable as its what RAC  should have provided under the policy.
Mr O also wanted RAC  to restore his car. But this isnt covered by his breakdown policy. I 
can see that this is clearly set out in his policy under what  is not covered. Mr O would always 
have been responsible for the repair costs. So I dont require RAC to do this. 
Ref: DRN20651642I also cant hold RAC  responsible for damage Mr O says was caused  to the car whilst it 
awaited repatriation.  From what I can see, Mr O had the car moved  to the roadside  to avoid 
parking charges. I think this was his decision and I cant reasonably hold RAC responsible 
for this.
Mr O said his family was caused  distress  and upset because of RACs refusal to honour his 
cover at the time. RAC agreed that Mr O had a justifiable reason to feel frustrated.  I agree  
that Mr Os language and threats at the time werent acceptable and I can understand RACs 
decision to decline further service. But, as Ive said above, I think  RAC could have done 
more when Mr O first called and so avoided this and the familys later upset.  
The investigator recommended  that RAC  pay Mr O £200 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused  him. I think this is fair and reasonable as its what  Id require in similar 
circumstances. I can understand that Mr O feels that more compensation is warranted.  But it 
isnt our role to punish businesses when they make mistakes.  I dont  think  RAC needs to pay 
him more  than this for the impact of its error on him. It sought  to put things right as soon as 
cover was confirmed. Mr O also wanted an apology from RAC, but this isnt something I can 
require it to do. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require RAC Insurance  Limited to do the 
following:
1.Refund the repatriation costs Mr O incurred, subject to receipts  being  provided, as its 
already agreed  to do. 
2.Consider Mr Os other expenses under the terms and conditions  on the policy,  subject to 
reasonable evidence of these.
3.Pay Mr O £200 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2065164