K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Financial Management (U.K.) Limited (FM) mis-sold him a policy for 
his property that didnt cover  all the required units.
Mr S has been represented  throughout this complaint by his son. For ease of reading,  all 
references to Mr S include the actions of his representative.
background
Mr S is the freeholder of a property. The property is made up of six flats and 2 commercial  
units on the ground floor. A building management company, that I will refer to as N, owns  the 
leasehold for the six flats. Mr S took out an insurance policy through a broker - FM.
In 2010 there was a fire in the commercial  units on the ground  floor.  This caused  damage to 
the six flats above.  Mr S made a claim for this damage on the insurance and the insurer 
accepted the claim.
Mr S then made  another  claim for the retail units. This claim was declined  by the insurer  who 
said the insurance policy was in the name of N and it didnt have an insurable interest in the 
retail units,  so these  werent covered.
Mr S made a complaint to this service about  the insurer.  He said it hadnt  acted fairly by 
declining the claim as the insurance had been  intended for all units and they had all paid 
towards the premiums.  
An ombudsman at the service made a decision on the complaint. He didnt uphold  it as he 
said he agreed that the policy didnt cover the retail units, so the insurer acted fairly by 
declining the claim.
Following this decision, Mr S made a complaint to FM, as it was the broker  that sold the 
insurance. He said it was his intention that the policy  covered the whole property, so this had 
been mis-sold.
FM said that it had thought the policy did cover the whole building.  It said the information 
provided by the insurer was unclear,  so it was the insurer  that provided it with incorrect 
information that it passed on to the consumer. It said the insurer had told it that it wasnt  
possible to only insure part of the building  on a phone call. But the insurer  was unable to 
provide the call recording.
Mr S was unhappy with this response. He felt he had been  clear about wanting cover  for the 
whole building  and it was the brokers responsibility to ensure  it provided a policy that did. 
He brought his complaint  to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld.  She 
said Mr S had approached FM with the intention to insure the whole building.  However  the 
policy was set up in the name of N. Therefore FM failed  to protect its customers  interests by 
setting it up in the wrong name. She said FM and its insurers  should investigate  the quote 
provided by Mr S and the damage  and agree a settlement for the retail units. 
FM disagreed with our investigator. Firstly it said that it didnt consider the complaint to be 
within our jurisdiction, as the insured event happened more than six years  ago.
Ref: DRN29970042However aside from this it said Mr S was an experienced property investor and works in the 
legal profession,  so he should have enough experience to pick up any errors with the 
insurance. It also said that it had properties on the same block with the same  insurer and it 
hadnt encountered this problem so the insurer was inconsistent. Finally it said that as it 
hadnt been able to get a copy of the call recording with the insurer, a crucial bit of evidence 
was missing that would  prove the insurer was to blame. It asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
Since the complaint came to me I have reviewed  the points FM raised regarding  the 
jurisdiction of the complaint and have found that we are able to consider the complaint. I 
explained my reasons  to both FM and Mr S and neither had further comment  to make on the 
matter. So I have proceeded to consider the merits of the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have outlined, a decision against the insurer has already been issued by an 
ombudsman at the service. FM maintains that the insurer  confirmed  that the policy  covered  
the whole  building and disputes some of the evidence provided by the insurer as part of that 
decision. However I can only review evidence relating to this complaint. And I cant  consider 
anything that has already  been considered by an ombudsman here. So I have not addressed  
any points raised in relation to evidence that has already been considered and decided  upon 
as part of the complaint against  the insurer.
Mr S says that he requested a policy from FM that covered the whole building, including  the 
retail units.  So I need  to decide whether FM has acted  fairly and reasonably  when selling the 
insurance policy to Mr S. And if not what it should do to put things right.
When looking at whether a broker has mis-sold an insurance policy,  I need to consider  the 
information provided by the consumer about what they needed and the information  provided 
by the insurer  about the policy. I can then assess whether the insurer did enough to meet the 
needs of its customer.  And if it treated them fairly  and reasonably  
Mr S approached FM to buy an insurance policy for his property. It was his intention to get a 
policy that covers the whole building he is a freeholder for, including  the retail  units.  This isnt 
disputed - FM agrees that Mr S was seeking a policy for the whole building. Infact it has said 
that it considered  the policy to cover the whole building. So it appears that Mr S was clear 
about what he needed. And this was understood by FM.
However what Mr S ended up with was a policy that didnt meet those needs. The insurer 
has explained that as the policy  was taken out in the name  of N, this would only ever have 
insured Ns interests.  And as N is a leaseholder just for the six flats,  and has no interest  in 
the retail units,  it wouldnt have covered  these  units.  So although FM understood what Mr S 
needs were,  what it provided  didnt  meet  these.  
FM has maintained throughout  that the policy it arranged with the insurer did meet these 
needs. However the decision from this service decided that it didnt.  So I cant agree that this 
is the case.
Ref: DRN29970043FM has also said that Mr S has a portfolio of properties, so he should have realised from the 
paperwork that the insurance wasnt  suitable  and it was his responsibility to do so. I have 
considered this and I dont think  its fair for the onus  to have  been  on Mr S. He went  to a 
broker in order to ensure  he got the right insurance  for his properties. He was relying on its 
expertise to help him. When a broker sells insurance, it is an advised sale - so they 
recommend a policy based  on the insureds needs.  So Mr S would be reasonable to expect 
the policy to reflect what he had asked for.
Further FM has said that it thought the insurance  covered the whole building.  And it said that 
having seen all the same  paperwork.  If a broker cant identify that the policy wasnt what  they 
expected, then I dont think its fair to say that the consumer should have picked up on this 
instead. 
For these reasons, I think Mr S made  his needs  clear to FM, however it failed to meet these 
needs and to provide the correct information to Mr S regarding  the policy. So I agree it did 
mis-sell the policy as it didnt meet its responsibilities  as a broker. 
In deciding what FM should do to put things  right I have considered  what  would have 
happened had FM sold a policy  that met Mr S needs. In that circumstance, the retail units 
would have been covered  by the policy,  as required by Mr S. I am particularly  convinced  of 
this as the claim for the part of the property that was covered  the six flats  was accepted 
in full. So I think it is fair for FM to pay out the reasonable costs of the claims.
I asked Mr S to provide  the reasonable amounts to rectify  the damage caused  by the insured 
event. He has provided evidence to show it would  cost £71,842  to rectify the damage to the 
retail units.  Further  he has shown he would have received £18,000 per year in rent that he 
didnt receive due to the fire. As the property has now been out of use for around two years  I 
think it is reasonable for FM to cover this cost too  this amounts to £36,000.
I provided these figures to FM for its comments before issuing  this decision. It commented 
that the limit for loss of rent under the policy was £45,000, but this was intended to be split 
across all six flats and the two retail  units. So it thought the loss of rent payment should be 
reduced proportionately. I have  considered this but I dont agree this would be a fair 
approach. It has already  been decided that the policy didnt cover the retail units. So I dont 
think its fair to split the limit across eight  different  entities. Further,  I cant  be sure whether 
the policy limit for loss of rent would have been  higher had the policy covered all of the 
required units. This would have been a decision for the insurer.  And considering  the amount 
claimed for is less than the current policy limit, I think its fair and reasonable for FM to cover  
the full amount.
For these reasons I will require FM to pay Mr S £71,842 to rectify the damage caused to the 
retail units  by the fire. I will also require it to pay a total of £36,000  to make up for rent Mr S 
would have received during this time. I will also require FM to pay 8% simple interest on both 
of these amounts  from the date they were incurred until the date payment is made to make  
up for the time Mr S has been without the money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I require Financial Management (U.K.)  Limited to:
Pay Mr S £71,842 to cover the cost of the repairs that should  have been covered by his 
insurance policy.
Ref: DRN29970044Pay Mr S £36,000 to cover the rent he would  have  received during this period.
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on both of the above from the date of the loss until 
the date settlement is paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2997004