K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that The Co-operative  Bank  Plc (when  it was trading as Britannia 
Building Society) mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI). 
The Co-operative Bank merged with Britannia Building Society and it is dealing with this 
complaint. So, to keep things  simpler, from now on Ill just refer to Co-op  Bank  as the seller  
in my decision.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out PPI alongside a mortgage  in 2006. The policy  provided them with 
cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Mr and Mrs J 
disagreed. They mainly say that the advisor they spoke to didnt explain the policy  terms 
clearly and made them think that they wouldnt be able to get a mortgage  without taking  out 
PPI. 
Mr and Mrs J also told us they didn't need  the insurance as they had other  means to rely on 
to pay their mortgage if necessary. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
I dont know what the advisor told Mr and Mrs J about PPI. But I cant  fairly say that 
Co-op Bank  didnt make  it clear that the cover was optional  just based on what Mr and Mrs J 
say about the way they were sold PPI. I think the paperwork they had to complete wouldve 
made it clear  that PPI was optional and it was up to Mr and Mrs J to say if they wanted it with 
their mortgage.
Ive seen their mortgage application. This shows that PPI was offered to Mr and Mrs J when 
they were applying for their mortgage.  There was an option on the form to say that PPI 
wasnt required. So I think that Mr and Mrs J wouldve seen that PPI was available as an 
optional extra and it was their choice if they wanted  it with their mortgage. On the application 
they signed theyve filled in a box to indicate  they wanted to have cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
A separate  PPI application had to be filled in if they wanted to take out PPI. Ive seen the PPI 
application that Mr and Mrs J completed. They filled in their details and answered questions 
to check they were both eligible for the policy. They chose the amount  of benefit they wanted 
to have and said how they wanted to share the policy benefits between them. Mr and Mrs J 
signed the completed form to get the policy. 
Ref: DRN25980942The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mr and Mrs Js home wouldve been  at risk if their mortgage payments  werent  kept 
up to date. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs J mightve  felt PPI was useful  to have.  
I can completely understand if Mr and Mrs J have forgotten these details as this happened 
such a long time ago. But, based  on the information Ive seen,  I think  its likely that 
Mr and Mrs J decided they did want the benefits  that PPI offered. And, on balance, I find that 
they chose to buy the policy, knowing it was up to them to say if they wanted it.
Co-op Bank  recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs J. If a business makes  a recommendation 
about PPI, it doesnt  just have to give important policy  information  in a clear  way. It also has 
to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs J told us about their circumstances  when 
they took out the PPI. I've also seen the record of their discussion with Co-op  Banks advisor 
when Mr and Mrs J talked about their money situation and discussed  their financial needs.
Based on all the information I've seen  and been  told, I think that the PPI recommended  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs J. The policy wouldve paid out the monthly benefit amount they 
chose for up to 12 months per claim. This couldve been a useful  benefit  at whats  likely to 
have been a difficult time if Mr J and/or Mrs J had been off work sick  especially if they 
faced extra costs as a result of being  unwell or disabled and bearing in mind what  theyve 
said about their sick pay entitlement through work. 
It looks like they told Co-op  Banks  advisor that they were on a tight budget  and it appears  
their savings were being used to pay the balance of the purchase price on their new home.  
So I dont  know if Mr and Mrs J wouldve always had savings  they couldve relied on if theyd 
needed to make a claim. In any event, having PPI would've meant  they could keep any 
savings intact  to spend on other things or provide them with financial security for the future. 
Relying on other  people to help out in the event of money problems  isnt as dependable as 
PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Although Mrs J was eligible for death in service benefit from her employer, and she also had 
life and critical illness insurance, PPI provided  a different sort of cover and paid out in 
different circumstances. 
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped if Mrs J was off work sick. And 
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed lost her 
job, giving  Mr and Mrs J some additional  financial security in those circumstances.
I think it unlikely that selling their personal  assets  wouldve  been  enough  to pay the 
mortgage for very long  bearing in mind it was a financial  commitment Mr and Mrs J were 
expecting to have  to pay for many years. The policy provided them  with long term protection  
as they couldve  made  repeated claims on it. 
Its possible some of the information  Co-op  Bank gave Mr and Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But it doesnt look as if they were affected by any policy 
conditions that mightve  made it difficult for them  to benefit from the cover. So, I dont think  
more information  about policys exclusions and limitations wouldve made any difference to 
their decision  to take it out. 
Ref: DRN25980943I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs J when they applied  for PPI. But 
the policy was free for the first 6 months and the cost of the policy was shown on the 
schedule of insurance which Co-op  Bank  says it wouldve  sent to Mr and Mrs J when  the 
policy was set up. They would've also been  able to see that they could cancel the policy 
without charge if it wasn't something they wanted after all.
And prior to the free period ending, Co-op  Bank  wouldve  written  to Mr and Mrs J. This letter 
would've confirmed  that theyd  have  to start paying  for the policy if they wanted to keep it 
running and informed them what the monthly  premium would be and the date it would be 
collected from their bank account  each month.  So Mr and Mrs J couldve queried it then if 
they decided PPI wasnt something  they wanted  to pay for. But, from what Ive seen, it 
doesnt look as if that happened.  Mr and Mrs J havent suggested that they couldnt afford 
the monthly premiums.  And as they wouldve signed an instruction  form to their bank to 
cover the cost it seems  to me that they were  happy  at the time to pay for PPI.
Looked at overall, even if there were failings in the way Co-op Bank sold PPI to 
Mr and Mrs J, I dont think its likely that better information wouldve put them off buying it 
when they took out their mortgage.  Given the useful protection  it offered them I think its 
likely that they wouldve  still bought  the policy. 
On balance, I dont  find theres enough  information for me to say that Co-op  Bank mis-sold 
PPI to Mr and Mrs J. I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment, but 
I hope that setting  out the reasons as Ive done  will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.
my final decision 
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2598094