K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that when she made a claim on her motor insurance policy she got poor 
service from Admiral Insurance Company Limited. 
background
Miss Cs car was written-off on a motorway in an accident caused by poor weather 
conditions several  hundred  miles from home.  She says that when she called  Admiral  she 
was asked to call again from a quieter location. Meanwhile, Miss C used the breakdown 
cover from another  policy to have her car towed away  and to get to a place of safety. 
Miss C wanted the large items she had to leave in her car to be transported to her home by 
Admiral. She wanted the car to be taken to a garage close to her home so its dashcam and 
satnav unit could be removed there.  She also wanted a replacement  car. 
In a later call with Admiral an advisor told Miss C that only the small personal  items shed left 
in the car would be returned to her, by post, in line with standard  practice.  The advisor said 
as the policy  was due to end shortly, and there  was no car to insure,  it would be cancelled. 
But Admiral  later contacted Miss C about the renewal  in error. An advisor  also told Miss C 
that as she had a separate  motor  legal protection policy shed  be able to claim back any 
losses that werent covered by the main policy, such as travel costs,  if she kept the receipts.  
Miss C later found the advice shed been given about uninsured losses wasnt correct, as no 
other driver was involved in the accident.  Admiral paid her £50 for the confusion about  the 
renewal and £250 for giving her the wrong advice. Miss C thought  Admiral  should also pay 
for her car hire, plus the cost of train tickets  and a taxi shed used to get to the hire firm. And 
she thought it should pay for tools shed bought in order to remove  the dashcam and satnav  
unit from the car herself, plus a refund of the £400  policy excess. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Miss Cs complaint.  He thought  the £300 compensation 
Admiral had paid Miss C for distress and inconvenience was fair. But he thought it should 
also cover  her uninsured  losses,  given  that she was led to believe theyd be covered.  
Admiral said the policy  didnt cover Miss C for the cost of transporting her possessions, and 
as the car was a total loss, it didnt cover delivering  it or Miss C home  either. It thought it had 
compensated her adequately for giving her the wrong advice. As there was no agreement, I 
reviewed the complaint  and issued a provisional decision as follows:
I can see why Miss C was upset to find that shed been given the wrong advice  by Admiral, 
as its advisors had raised her expectations in error.  But the policy  didnt cover the items she 
wanted Admiral to pay for. Uninsured losses can only be recovered from another  party  who 
has accepted  liability for an accident.  In this case, no-one else was involved. The policy 
documents set out when uninsured losses can be pursued  but at the time of the accident,  I 
think it was reasonable  for Miss C to rely on what Admirals advisors told her. 
Having listened  to the calls, it seems the breakdown  firm took Miss Cs large personal items  
to her home. But even  if that wasnt the case,  theres no cover under the policy  for Admiral to 
arrange for such a delivery or to transport a written-off car home.  Nor was Admiral 
responsible for the cost of Miss Cs journey home,  or for the tools  she bought to remove the 
dashcam and satnav  unit. Had the car been  repairable, it would have been  taken to a garage  
close to the site of the accident,  and Miss C would then have been given a replacement  car. 
Ref: DRN28744302So I think its very unfortunate it wasnt repairable, especially so far from home.  But either 
way, Mss C would have had to pay the policy excess, as its payable  on every claim. 
Admiral accepted that its advisors gave Miss C the wrong information about her uninsured 
losses. I think she was certainly  distressed and inconvenienced by that, as well as by the 
circumstances of the accident  itself and the aftermath. So I do sympathise with the position  
Miss C found herself in. But in my opinion, she hasnt shown that shed have acted 
differently but for Admirals poor advice, or that she ran up extra costs as a result of it. 
Based on everything  Ive seen so far, I think Admiral acted reasonably by offering Miss C 
£250 compensation, plus a further £50 for the renewal  confusion.  So I dont think it would be 
fair and reasonable to uphold her complaint
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional view. Admiral didnt comment. Miss C said 
as the policy  only had 14 days left to run, Admiral  didnt  care about her plight and was happy 
to leave her at the accident site. She repeated her concern about the confusion around  the 
renewal. She said Admiral  sold her the legal protection  policy  on the basis that it covered 
losses where no other party was involved.  Miss C said that later on, Admiral gave her the 
wrong number for the firm of solicitors that would provide help with uninsured  losses. The 
solicitors then provided poor service and also led her to believe that the policy  shed paid for 
was there  to assist Admiral, not Miss C, so it was a waste of money.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss C first called  Admiral on 16 March 2019, its clear from the recording that she 
was at the accident site. She said the accident  had taken place in the last half hour. I think  
traffic noise  made it harder to hear what was being said at times, but very early in the call the 
advisor asked where Miss C was and whether the car was driveable. Miss C said it wasnt - 
but that a breakdown firm was on its way. The next call she made to Admiral  was from a 
train station, having apparently been  taken  there  by the breakdown service or the police.
In the circumstances, I dont think its reasonable to say that Admiral was content to leave 
Miss C at the roadside or that it wasnt concerned about her welfare.  Given  what  she said to 
the advisor, it wasnt necessary for Admiral to arrange a recovery.  Had Miss C not said a 
breakdown firm was on the way, theres no reason to think Admiral  wouldnt have acted in 
line with the policy by instructing a recovery agent to collect the car and Miss C.  
As I noted  in my provisional findings, Admiral accepted that there was confusion around  the 
renewal of Miss Cs policy and offered her £50 compensation for that (and another  issue). 
So although  I understand Miss Cs continuing frustration with what happened, I still think 
Admiral made a reasonable attempt to resolve  it to Miss Cs satisfaction. 
Admiral also accepted that Miss C was given the wrong advice after the accident about the 
legal protection  policy  - and she accepted compensation  for that. Miss C hasnt complained 
previously about  the mis-sale of the policy. As Admiral hasnt had a chance  to consider the 
issue, it isnt something I can comment on. I think the same applies to her being given the 
wrong details for the firm of solicitors. And any poor service on their part would be something 
for the firm to address in the first instance. The Legal Ombudsman service  may be able to 
consider any concerns  Miss C might have  about the firm subsequently.   
Ref: DRN28744303I know Miss C will be very disappointed  with my decision, but having  taken  into account her 
further comments, I still think Admiral acted  reasonably overall. I think  it dealt with the poor 
service Miss C complained to it about  fairly, by offering her £300  compensation. So I wont  
be upholding Miss Cs complaint.     
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN2874430