K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Legal and General Insurance Limited (L&G) declined his claim for storm 
damage unfairly.
background
Mr D had a household policy with L&G when roof tiles came  off his roof and damaged  his 
conservatory roof in November 2018.  He made  a claim for storm damage for the main roof. 
He also considered making a claim for accidental damage for the conservatory  roof but 
didnt pursue that claim because the cost of repair was less than the excess. 
L&G rejected the claim for the roof because  it said there was no evidence  of a storm on the 
date the damage  occurred. Mr D argued  that the damage had been caused  by a longer  spell 
of stormy weather. But L&G said this wouldnt be covered under the policy. So Mr D 
complained. L&G rejected  his complaint so he came to this service. Our investigator looked  
into the complaint  but didnt think it should be upheld  so Mr D asked for review by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what  Ive seen, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld  and Ill explain why.
Mr Ds policy  clearly states what  L&G considers as a storm for the purposes of a claim for 
storm damage. It defines STORM as:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 47mph/ 75kmh  or torrential rainfall  at a rate of at least  
one inch/25mm per hour or snow to a depth  of at least one foot/30cm in 24 hours  or hail of 
such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
I have looked  at weather reports from the area around Mr Ds home on the date of the 
damage. The maximum wind speed on that day was 38mph with rain of 7mm per hour. So 
the conditions  on the day wouldnt be classified as a storm under the policy. Mr D says that 
there had been  a lot of stormy weather before the incident. But L&Gs  policy doesnt cover 
general weather  patterns. 
I note Mr Ds lived at the property for 23 years with no significant maintenance carried out to 
the roof in that time.  The policy contains a warning  on the first page which says:
This policy covers  the costs of unexpected loss or damage. It does not cover: 
 Wear and tear 
 Maintenance costs  such as refixing loose roof tiles, repointing  brickwork  or replacing 
guttering. 
 Damage that happens over a period of time for example damp, rot and damage from 
vermin 
To make a successful claim  you must  keep your property  in good repair and take all realistic  
and practical steps to prevent loss or damage. .
Based on what Ive seen,  I think its likely that the damage to Mr Ds happened over a period 
of time due to wear  and tear on the property.  So I dont think  it was covered in the policy.
Ref: DRN22754652For these reasons, I think L&G has handled  Mr Ds claim fairly and does not need to do 
anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2275465