K821x#15complaint
Mrs M, along with the executors of the estate of Ms S, have complained about Society of 
Lloyds, which provided commercial property insurance for their property. It declined  a claim 
Mrs M made  following  a water leak.
background
Mrs M and Ms S owned a property. Ms S passed away in 2013. At the point of renewal in
2014 Mrs M was the policyholder and Ms Ss estate  was still to be settled. Mrs M and her 
husband, Mr M, are the executors for the estate.
Prior to the policy  renewing on 30 July 2014  Mrs M told her broker that the property in 
question, whilst currently vacant, would become occupied  during the 2014/2015 policy  year. 
In April 2015  Mrs M told the broker the property had, a few months earlier,  become occupied  
as expected.
On 2 July 2015 SOL was advised  by the broker that the property was now occupied. SOL 
noted the update  but said the renewal terms, which were being discussed at the time, would 
remain on an unoccupied  basis because the end of the current  tenancy was due to coincide 
with the renewal date.  SOL then acknowledged a request to provide a premium  refund 
(backdated to April 2015) based  on the occupancy risk having changed. Mrs M was sent 
£50.
On 15 July Mrs M told her broker, which  in turn notified SOL,  that thered been a water leak 
but that she hoped the property would dry and thered be no need to make a claim. SOL said 
it would  note the incident, but it thought there  might  be problems if a claim was made.
In August 2015 Mrs M contacted her broker again.  She said shed tried to dry the property 
but this had been unsuccessful. SOL said it could log a claim for Mrs M but this would 
probably be declined.  It said this was because  there  was a limitation  on the policy  which 
restricted the cover provided. It said, as a result, there was no cover in place for water 
damage.
Mrs M was surprised  and disappointed. She believed shed had full cover  in place from the 
point shed told the broker about the change in occupancy. And certainly  given that SOL had 
accepted this and refunded some premium.  For its part SOL said it had never been asked to 
remove the restriction to cover. The broker and SOL then began  debating liability  for the 
situation. In February  2017,  having  done some  repairs and re-let the property in between 
where possible, Mrs M and the estate complained to this service.
Our investigator felt that SOL had acted as requested and, therefore, it couldnt be fairly said 
to have been  at fault. The matter came to me for review and I issued a provisional decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so I think  SOL did fail Mrs M 
and the estate on this occasion.  Ill explain why below and set out what I think  it must now do 
to put matters right.
The cover available  to Mrs M was restricted because of an endorsement:
Ref: DRN26988412unoccupied  FLEA  Cover
But Mrs Ms property wasnt unoccupied. And SOL knew that was the case  and accepted it. 
It even acknowledged that by reimbursing  some of the premium.  So I dont think  it can fairly 
rely on the fact of restricted cover to decline the claim.
However, I have to look at the policy a bit further  because both the wording  and schedule  
are labelled Unoccupied Property Wording/Schedule. And there is the following clause in 
the policy wording:
9. Occupancy  Clause
This clause  shall apply specifically whilst the premises hereby insured are unoccupied. In the 
event of any changes underwriters shall be notified within 14 days  of such  a change taking 
place.
So, on the face of it, SOL might argue (and from its file it has intimated this at times) that the 
policy as a whole was never  meant  to cover occupied properties, so removing or ignoring the 
FLEA endorsement wont resolve that. On the one hand I disagree because the policy 
wording as a whole isnt focused on unoccupied  premises,  only the clause  makes  this the 
case (although I accept the name  suggests it). And clauses are used  because  they can be 
easily removed without  the whole document being  redrafted. Theres also clearly an option 
for underwriters to consider a change when  notified
On the other hand, I think my view of policy wording  and a debate about its intent is 
somewhat academic here. In my view SOL moved beyond the point of being able to 
successfully argue that it was never  offering cover for an occupied property at the point it 
accepted the property  was currently occupied and made a premium reimbursement. That 
action also, I think, took it beyond the point of being  able to reasonably  argue that Mrs M 
hadnt notified it within 14 days of the occupancy change occurring.
As it is. I think what likely happened is that in July 2015 both SOL and the broker  were 
focused on looking forward  to and agreeing the renewal  terms. I dont think  SOL really 
thought about the present  cover or expected  there would be any loss in the few short weeks  
before the renewal  began  again.  But in not thinking  about it whilst simultaneously acting as 
though cover was in place SOL, in my view,  affirmed the policy  as applying to the now 
occupied property. As such it cant then fairly  rely on an unoccupancy endorsement as being  
in place to restrict the cover otherwise available.
All of which  means I think SOL acted unfairly and unreasonably in refusing this claim. As 
such, I think it now needs to accept it and deal with it.
Whilst I know Mrs M and the estate have  completed some work, I understand there is still 
some to do. SOL, therefore, will have  to make  reimbursements for the costs  incurred to date 
in reinstating the property  as a result of the water damage, as well as covering anything 
outstanding in line with the policy terms and conditions. On that note, from what Ive seen,
I accept that Mrs M has always tried to act to mitigate the loss and that shes  attempted  to 
deal with the damage the best she can in the situation she was left in following SOLs unfair  
and unreasonable decline of the claim.
Ref: DRN26988413Mrs M has provided invoices for work done already, which I understand SOL has seen,  and 
shes totalled her current  outlay/loss, less solicitors  costs, as at 18 February 2017, as 
£1,284.56 . That breaks down as:
 Painting materials £319.02
 Replace light £65.00
 Pressure washer hire £47.25
 Sander (for stained beams) £53.97
 Light £35.00
 Carpet replacement  £448.82
 Lino replacement £35.50
 Refitting doors  £280.00
There may well have  been costs since then which SOL will have to consider as part of its
on-going claim consideration, should my final decision remain  the same  and Mrs M and the 
estate accept it. However, unless SOL can persuade me otherwise, Im going  to award these 
costs now, rather than leave it to consider them later. They  seem reasonable in the 
circumstances and if Mrs M hadnt  done  any work  she wouldnt have been able to re-let  the 
premises which I understand she did do. As I say I think she did what  she could to mitigate 
her loss. But if there were any periods when the property  couldnt be let due to the damage
or related repairs then SOL will have to consider  its liability for that as well.
In terms of her outlay to 18 February 2017, Im going to require SOL to pay the total of 
£1,284.56. On the individual sums that make  up this total or its sub-totals, SOL will have  to 
add interest* from the date each cost was incurred until settlement is made.
Im not going  to require SOL to reimburse solicitors costs. I understand Mrs M was dealing  
with a lot at this time but I dont think she was incapable of dealing  with this too. And I expect 
the solicitors would always have needed to be involved, even from the point of loss, because  
of the involvement  of the estate.
I do think SOL should pay compensation. But my award in this respect will be limited  
because I cant take into account some  of the distress and inconvenience  experienced.
The estate  isnt a person  so cant suffer distress. And whilst executors can experience  both 
distress and inconvenience, they arent complainants in their right. So I cant consider how 
Mr and Mrs M, acting  as executors, have suffered.
Regarding the estate,  I know there were some financial issues that mayve  been resolved 
more easily  if the property couldve been sold. However, the claim occurred. Whilst its true 
that a ready acceptance  from SOL would  likely  have meant the damage was quickly  
resolved, there are then many variables  that may well have affected the sale being  achieved. 
So many that I cant be sure that the sale would most likely have quickly followed the claim 
resolution. Therefore,  I think that, in the main, the inconvenience the estate has been put to  
cant reasonably  be said to have  most  likely occurred because  of SOLs unfair  decline of the 
claim. But I accept that some limited  inconvenience  likely did occur  as a result  of that.
Mrs M though, as a policyholder and part property owner in her own right,  has, Im satisfied, 
suffered both distress  and inconvenience  as a result of SOLs  actions. I understand  shes 
suffered anxiety and a lot of worry. I have to bear in mind  though  that her worry as a whole 
includes that which relates  to her role as executor of the estate and I know  she was very 
Ref: DRN26988414keen to ensure  the estate  and her mothers wishes were settled fairly. In the circumstances 
I think that became  very difficult and she was caused a lot of worry as a result.  So my 
compensation award will need to be tempered  in that respect.
Mrs M has also suffered the inconvenience  of trying to progress the claim. Again though, her 
actions in this respect  have been  done both for herself as an individual and as an executor. 
So again  my considerations  and award have to reflect that.
Having considered everything  Im minded to make  SOL pay Mrs M £500 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  shes suffered, and the estate £100  to compensate  for its 
inconvenience. All as a result of SOL having unfairly and unreasonably declined the claim for 
water damage.
SOL said its only concerns were that it felt there  wouldnt be any other costs or any lost rent 
and that the compensation award was a bit high. Mrs M explained a bit more about  what had 
happened; the costs  she and the estate  had had, and what theyd all been through. Mrs M 
sent various invoices  and requested I decide what is to be settled, and that all of their lost 
rent is reimbursed.  She provided solicitors bills to show the estate issues were dealt with 
separately. Mrs M explained  that she felt SOL had deliberately omitted to give advice that 
would have been crucial to how the damage was handled and that it should be penalised to 
stop it from doing this again. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand what Mrs M went through following this loss and SOLs failure  to deal with it. 
But Mrs Ms comments in response to my provisional decision dont  persuade me I should 
be making SOL do anything more than suggested  provisionally. Apportioning blame in this 
situation is not straightforward, but from my removed position Im satisfied the findings Ive 
made are fair and reasonable. 
I dont think SOL is fully aware yet of how the repairs  progressed and what  was necessary to 
fully reinstate the building. Whilst it was intended for sale that doesnt mean it could be let in 
the meantime,  or that there werent gaps in the rental due to repairs being  done. But Ill pass  
the invoices and detail about  the rent that Mrs M has provided on to SOL to be considered 
as part of the claim. I note Mrs M has explained that the decorating quote is provided to 
show the cost of work she and Mr M undertook, on more than one occasion.  It is illustrative 
rather than a request  for payment in that sum.  But I do think SOL should  give some  thought  
to the time Mrs M took carrying out work  and compensate  her for that  it would be 
unreasonable, as Mrs M accepts to have SOL pay professional rates for that, but her time 
still has a worth in monetary terms. I can only say this in respect  of Mrs M as SOLs 
policyholder, I cant extend  it to Mr M.
The solicitor  may well have undertaken work  regarding probate  and the like for the estate 
separately. But as the property, at least in part, belonged to the estate, Im not persuaded 
the solicitors involvement can reasonably be said to be entirely unrelated to the 
machinations of the estate. I regret any disappointment this causes Mrs M, but Im not 
minded to change  my view on this.
Ref: DRN26988415If the handlers who dealt  with this on behalf of SOL had been technically skilled enough  to 
foresee the problems  that Mrs M ultimately  faced, then I think she should  have been 
forewarned. Regardless  of liability I think that would  have  been the decent thing to do. But 
Im not persuaded those involved did know or should reasonably have  known or been 
capable of foreseeing what might  (and then did) happen. But, whether  there  was any failure 
in this respect or not, it is not my job to penalise  insurers or make awards designed to 
prevent them from acting in the same way in the future. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied that SOL did fail Mrs M and the estate here and Ive set out what  
I think it has to do to put things right. I appreciate that SOL thinks  my compensation award  is 
too high but it hasnt  said anything thats given me cause to change  my mind  in this respect.  
Therefore, my provisional  findings  in this respect havent changed and they are now part of 
the findings of this my final decision.
 
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require Society  of Lloyds  to:
Accept and deal with the water claim by reimbursing  the sum of £1,284.56, plus interest*, 
and considering any outstanding loss, including rent, or damage under the remaining 
terms of the policy  but taking into account  my comments  above, including that Mrs M 
should be compensated for her time spent re-decorating.
If in doing that it is felt that something isnt covered by the policy,  consideration should be 
given to whether  the loss or damage has resulted  from the unfair decline, which  would 
mean liability  would attach regardless of the policy.
Pay Mrs M £500 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Pay the estate £100 compensation for inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and the 
executors for the estate  of Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple  per year and paid on the amounts specified  and from/to  the dates stated. If Society of Lloyds 
considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from any interest  due to Mrs M and/or  the estate,  
it should  tell them how much  its taken off. It should  also give Mrs M and/or the estate  a certificate showing this if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2698841