K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Gain Credit  LLC trading as Lending  Stream lent to him irresponsibly.  
background
This complaint is about one instalment loan Lending Stream provided to Mr T in August 
2017. The loan of £300 was due to be repaid in six monthly instalments of varying amounts. 
Mr T hasnt  been able to fully repay  this loan
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr T could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint and have  explained why below.
Ref: DRN21070792why I think Lending Streams checks were proportionate
For this loan Mr T needed to make  monthly repayments that varied between £75 and £125 
over a six month period. 
Ive seen a record  of the information Mr T provided when he completed his loan application. 
Mr T said he had a monthly income of £2,100 and he had regular monthly outgoings of 
£1,600. This left him with a disposable income  of £500. So it wouldve been reasonable for 
Lending Stream to think that Mr T could afford the repayments to these loans. 
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely Lending Stream  was made  aware 
of any financial problems  Mr T mightve been having. Or anything  that wouldve prompted  it 
to investigate his circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to 
rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Lending Stream did before 
approving this loan was proportionate. And so I think its decision to lend was reasonable. Im 
not upholding Mr Ts complaint about  this loan.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2107079