K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains about the amount that hes been  charged by Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, 
trading as Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions, for damage to a car that he returned when his 
hire agreement ended.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr W under a hire agreement with Hitachi Capital that he signed 
in February 2016.  He returned the car when the agreement ended and it was inspected by a 
third party on behalf of Hitachi Capital in February  2019. The cars  mileage  was recorded as 
being 61,927 miles.  The vehicle inspection report identified damage to the car and 
recommended a charge of £1,282.03. Hitachi Capital reduced that by £225  and charged  
Mr W £1,057.03.  
Mr W complained  to Hitachi Capital about the charges  some of which  he said were  
excessive  and that he paid for components to be added to the car  including  a sat-nav   
which should be taken  into account. He wasnt satisfied with its response so complained  to 
this service. Hitachi Capital then agreed to remove the £60 charge for damage to the left 
centre post  leaving an outstanding amount of £997.03.
The adjudicator considered that Hitachi Capitals offer was a fair resolution  to the damage 
shown on the report and taking into account the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  
Association guidelines on fair wear and tear. He said that the charges had been applied  
fairly and he couldnt  say how much  should  be charged for the replacement carpet. He also 
said that Hitachi Capital  wasnt obligated to take into consideration the components that 
Mr W had added to the car when  applying the damage charges at the end of his agreement.
Mr W has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. He says,  in 
summary, that:
the system is unfair  and the expectation is that a three year old car should look like 
new;
hes not happy about the carpet charge   he could understand if the carpet  was 
repaired or replaced but he was told that the car was going straight to auction so 
Hitachi Capital would  just profit as the additional component and the good  general 
state in which he returned the car would  have ensured a fair market price;
he bought  manufacturers mats from a main  dealer the week  that he got the car;
the issue with the dents  on the pillars is based on the seat belts not retracting 
properly and getting caught  in the door;
the bumper  is plastic so cant rust and the paint  is flaking which  is an issue  with the 
paint quality; and
this was his first lease  car and he didnt realise the excessive charges that would be 
levied against  him at the end of the lease - if the charges had been reasonable he 
wouldve understood somewhat.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W returned the car when his hire agreement ended and it was inspected  by a third party  
on behalf of Hitachi  Capital in February  2019. The inspection report  records  the cars 
Ref: DRN27721912mileage as being 61,927  miles and identified the following damage to the car: dented  centre 
posts; chipped  bonnet,  front bumper,  left front door and left quarter panel; scuffed left front 
wheel, rear bumper  and right rear wheel;  and holed carpet. The report  included photos of the 
damage and estimated  the total repair cost to be £1,282.03. Mr W signed the report but a 
note was added to show that he disagree with price.
Hitachi Capital charged him £1,282.03 for the damage but then agreed to remove the 
charges for the chipped bonnet, door and quarter panel which  reduced  the total charge to 
£1,057.03. And after Mr W had complained to this service Hitachi  Capital agreed to remove 
the £60 charge for the dented  left centre  post. 
In the terms and conditions of the agreement, Mr W agreed to: to keep the vehicle in good 
condition and repair;  and that he would  be responsible for: any damage  caused to or 
deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than through fair wear and tear as indicated in the 
guidelines issued  from time to time by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association.
I consider that the photos in the inspection report show  that there was damage to the cars  
right centre post, both bumpers and two wheels.  And I dont consider that damage to be fair 
wear and tear in accordance with the British  Vehicle  Rental and Leasing  Association 
guidelines on fair wear  and tear. And Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to 
show that the charges that have  been made for that damage are unfair or unreasonable.
Those guidelines say that: carpets should  not have holes; but the photo in the report clearly 
shows that theres a hole in the carpet. Mr W says he bought mats to protect the carpet  
which was under the mats  and that he did everything that he could do to protect the carpet.  
But I dont consider the hole in the carpet  to be fair wear and tear. Mr W has been charged 
£557.03 for a replacement carpet  but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to 
show that thats unfair or unreasonable.
Nor am I persuaded  that the damage is the result  of any manufacturing defects that were  
present in the car when  it was supplied to Mr W. 
The car that was supplied  to Mr W included a multimedia  kit as an optional  extra   the 
payments that hed made to Hitachi Capital  included a payment for the multimedia kit. But 
when he returned  the car he was also required to return the multimedia kit  and Im not 
persuaded that it was his to keep   or that Hitachi Capital should  now be required to pay him 
any money for that kit.
Mr W has referred to other components that hes had added  to the car  including  a sat-nav, 
tow bar and dash-cam. It was his choice to add those components to the car and hes had 
the benefit of them  when  he used  the car. It was also his choice not to remove  those 
components before he returned the car  and he didnt do so. In the terms and conditions of 
the agreement  Mr W agreed: not to convert,  modify, or fit extras to the Vehicle (unless 
otherwise agreed  by us in writing). Ive not seen any evidence to show  that Hitachi  Capital 
agreed that Mr W could fit those components to the car  and even if it had  Im not 
persuaded that it would  now be fair or reasonable for me to require it to pay him any money 
for them.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require 
Hitachi Capital to reduce or waive any of the damage charges  that its made to Mr W and I 
consider that its offer to reduce the total charge to £997.03 is fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN27721913my final decision
So my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2772191