K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) gave misleading information about 
online transfers and about the way in which they processed a CHAPs  payment.
background
Mr M brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with the response from RBS.  The bank 
didnt think theyd made any mistakes. RBS said their website clearly  stated  the limits for 
online banking payments. And the cancellation of Mr Ms first CHAPs  payment was in line 
with the CHAPs terms and conditions. They said no information was given when he called 
on 5 January 2018 for security  reasons  and theyd followed  the process they had in place to 
protect his account   writing to the address on file. So they didnt uphold  his complaint.
Our adjudicator issued  two views. In the first - whilst  appreciating Mr M was very upset and 
concerned with the situation which added to an already stressful time - was unable to find 
that RBS made a mistake so didnt think it fair to ask them to pay Mr M compensation. In the 
second she dealt  with Mr Ms concern that his complaint was incorrectly interpreted and she 
addressed the three areas he highlighted.  Those being misleading  information on the online 
banking portal, inappropriate customer service processing the CHAPs payment and 
inacceptable reasoning  given for rejection of Mr Ms signature. But her view on the overall 
outcome remained  unchanged.
Mr M asked  for an ombudsman to make  a decision. He said it wasnt  appropriate to compare 
the current information on the RBS website to that which was available when he made the 
transfer and he sent us a screenshot of the information he saw and felt was extremely 
misleading. Mr M repeated his concerns that the customer  service for the CHAPs payment 
wasnt acceptable and that he didnt accept  the assessment of RBS on his signature.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr M has helpfully set out the main heads 
of his complaint  and Ill use those to explain my decision.
misleading information on the online banking  portal
Ive looked at the information Mr Ms asked me to, namely the screenshot he says he saw in 
the days leading  up to the payment. But it doesnt persuade me that the information  was 
misleading. On the contrary I think its clear  from that information  the advice about  transfer  
limits couldnt apply here. On the screenshot  in response to the question what's the 
minimum/maximum amount I can transfer  online?  it says provided that there are sufficient 
funds in the account that you want to transfer from, you can transfer into another account 
that you view online  and then goes on to set out the limits  - up to a maximum of 
£99,999.99 per transaction  - but with no limit on the number of transactions. Whats  key here 
is that Mr M would know the account  he wanted  to transfer to wasnt one he could view  
online or otherwise.  Thats because hes told us the transfer was to the client account of his 
solicitor acting in the property purchase. And he had no access to that. So I think it ought to 
have been clear to him from the guidance  in the screenshot hes sent us that those limits 
couldnt apply,  given the account he wanted to send the money to wasnt one he could view 
online. And I think RBS simply reinforced this when Mr M called them  on 4 January 2018 
Ref: DRN28464372when they confirmed the correct transfer  limits  on payments to another  account and the 
alternatives open to him.
inappropriate customer service processing CHAPs payment  
Mr M agreed  to the terms and conditions for a CHAPs payment which set out the process for 
payment. In this instance it wasnt completed in line with that process due to a discrepancy. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the bank didnt follow their process  and as Ive explained below 
I think RBS were entitled to take the view they did on the signature.  RBS said that when a 
CHAPs payment is cancelled they write  to a customer to inform  them.  I can see that this 
wouldnt be ideal in Mr Ms circumstances  but I cant ask a bank to change  their processes. 
And from everything Ive considered I think RBS did their utmost  to help Mr M over the 
weekend and the CHAPs payment was completed the next working  day on 8 January 2018.
inacceptable reasoning  given for rejection to my signature
The terms and conditions  for a CHAPs payment explain the payment may not happen  in line 
with the payment process detailed if the payment instruction isnt signed in accordance with 
the account mandate. RBS say the signature on the form didnt match that which  they held. I 
know Mr M doesnt accept RBSs assessment of his signature; he doesnt  see any material 
difference between  his signature in the faxes  sent on 4 and 8 January 2018.  Having  looked  
at all the signatures provided  here I think RBS are entitled to take the view they did. It seems 
to me there are differences and given the amount of the transfer  it wasnt  unreasonable for 
the CHAPs request to be cancelled.
I appreciate the events  here caused Mr M worry and concern.  But for the reasons I hope Ive 
explained above I dont think thats been  as a result of anything RBS have done wrong here.  
Given how strongly Mr M feels  about what happened he may want to pursue the matter  
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
his dispute with RBS informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr M. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2846437