K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund to him the money  that he 
paid for legal services  in connection with his claim against a time-share company. Hes being 
helped with his complaint  by a representative.
background
Mr P entered into a contract with a legal services company in October 2014 for legal 
services in connection with his claim against  a time-share company. The cost of the legal 
services was £18,480. He used his NatWest credit card to make  two payments to the legal 
services company  a deposit of £99 and then a payment of £100. He also paid it a further  
£18,281 by bank transfers later that month.  Other than a power of attorney being  set up, 
Mr P says that the company  has done  no work on his claim and he hasnt received any form 
of resolution on his claim. And the legal services company  has stopped trading. Mr Ps 
representative, on his behalf, claimed  a refund of the money that hed paid to the legal 
services company from NatWest under section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. But 
Mr P wasnt  satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She was satisfied that 
there was a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier relationship  between  Mr P, NatWest and the 
legal services company  (which has been  liquidated). And she said that thered been a 
breach of contract.  So she recommended that NatWest should refund to Mr P the money 
that hed paid to the legal services company (with interest).
Mr P has accepted the investigators recommendation but NatWest has asked  for this 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in summary, that:
the debtor-creditor-supplier chain is broken for the payment of the deposit;
the recipient  of the deposit was acting as a master  merchant  and its not aware of 
any legal  authority which establishes that section 75 applies where  there are five 
parties (debtor, creditor, merchant acquirer, master merchant and supplier); and
it doesnt have  a pre-existing arrangement with the master merchant that received 
the deposit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. One of those  circumstances is that there  must  be a 
relevant relationship between the debtor, the creditor and the supplier. And to be able to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint  about NatWest, I must be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the legal services  company and that NatWests response to 
his claim under section  75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not determining  the outcome of 
Mr Ps claim under section  75 as only a court would be able to do that.
Mr P agreed a contract  with the legal services company in October 2014 and he made four 
payments to it that month.  He paid it a deposit  of £99 - through  what NatWest has said was 
a master merchant  - using  his NatWest credit card, he made a payment of £100 also using 
his NatWest credit card and he made bank transfers of £10,000 and £8,281.
Ref: DRN29168282The £100  was paid to the legal services company using a payment services provider and is 
shown on Mr Ps NatWest credit card statement  with the name of the payment services  
provider and the name of the legal  services company. I consider that in these circumstances 
there was a relevant relationship for that payment between  Mr P as the debtor, NatWest  as 
the creditor and the legal  services company which was the supplier. Im not persuaded that 
the use of the payment servicers provider is enough  to stop there being such a relationship.
I consider that theres clearly been a breach of contract by the legal services company as it 
hasnt provided  the services to Mr P that hes paid for and its stopped  trading. Under 
section 75 NatWest is jointly liable  for that breach of contract. 
So I find that NatWest  responses to Mr Ps claim hasnt been  fair and reasonable. And I find 
that it would  be fair and reasonable for it to refund  to him the £18,480 that he paid to the 
legal services company  (with interest).  
As Im satisfied that theres  a relevant  debtor-creditor-supplier relationship relating to the 
payment of £100  it isnt necessary for me to consider whether there was also a relevant 
relationship relating to Mr Ps £99 deposit payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint. And I order 
National Westminster Bank Plc to:
1. Refund to Mr P the £18,480 that he paid to the legal services company.
2. Pay interest on the amounts that he paid to the legal services company at an annual 
rate of 8% simple from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires NatWest to deduct tax from the interest  payment referred 
to at 2 above.  NatWest  must give Mr P a certificate  showing how much tax its deducted  if he 
asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2916828