K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc refused to reimburse him for fees he had 
to pay to a claims management  company who successfully pursued a Section  75 claim for 
him which the bank  previously declined.
background
In July 2016 Mr L entered into a contract for the purchase of a rewards  bundle  consisting of 
credits and vouchers  at a purchase  price of £10,000.
Mr L was told he could  use the credits to obtain  discounts with retail partners. He says he 
was also told that the credits would be redeemable  after 14 months for their full value.
After 14 months Mr L tried to redeem his credits but was told they were  no longer 
redeemable for cash.
Part of Mr Ls purchase of the rewards bundle was made using his NatWest  credit card. He 
contacted NatWest and raised a claim under Section 75.
NatWest reviewed the claim but said it couldnt  see from the contract  that the credits could 
be redeemed for cash. It also said the documents provided by Mr L didnt prove  that thered 
been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation by the seller.  It said it would consider any 
further information Mr L wanted  to provide.
In January 2018 Mr L instructed a claims management company to pursue the Section 75 
claim. In April 2018 NatWest accepted the claim and paid a full refunds to Mr L. Mr L had to 
pay the claims management companys fees of £4,009.69.
Following this, Mr L complained to NatWest. He felt the bank had unreasonably declined his 
claim and wanted  the fees hed paid to the claims management company reimbursed.
NatWest didnt uphold  the complaint. It said Section 75 doesnt provide an automatic  
entitlement to a refund and that a claim had to be proved. It explained that it had changed its 
position when  the claims management company got involved  because it was provided  with 
additional information about  the credits and vouchers  which hadnt been provided  before.
Mr L wasnt happy with the response so he complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought NatWests initial decision to 
decline the claim was reasonable taking into account the information which  Mr L had 
provided. The investigator thought that the arguments presented to the bank by the claims 
management company  were different  to those initially advanced by Mr L and that it was 
these arguments  together  with the new information  presented that resulted in the bank 
changing its view.
The investigator also thought Mr L couldve pursued other options other than the claims 
management company  (for instance, this service) which wouldntve incurred a cost.
Mr L didnt agree. He thought the investigator shouldve considered whether NatWest 
handled his claim  fairly.  He said the letter hed received  from the bank rejecting his claim 
appeared final to him and didnt provide him with information on how to contact this service.  
Ref: DRN25656212Mr L said he believed that at the time when he made his claim, the bank knew the rewards 
scheme was a scam  and that it had settled  a number of similar claims previously. Mr L felt 
that NatWest had summarily rejected his claim without taking into account that there  had 
been a misrepresentation at the time he entered into the contract.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ill be looking  at whether  NatWest  acted fairly and reasonably in rejecting Mr 
Ls section 75 claim.
In certain circumstances Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against a 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by the supplier. In considering Mr Ls complaint about  NatWest  Im not 
considering the merits of the Section 75 claim itself. Rather, in deciding  whether NatWest 
dealt with Mr Ls claim fairly, Ive taken  section 75 into account.
When presented with a Section 75 claim, a financial services provider has to decide, based  
on the information available, whether theres  enough  to prove that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation.
When Mr L made his Section 75 claim,  he said thered  been  a misrepresentation by the 
seller to the effect that the credits would be fully redeemable  for cash.  Mr Ls claim was 
brought on the basis that the seller had made an untrue statement which caused him to 
enter into the contract.  NatWest looked  at the information provided by Mr L to see whether it 
proved that there had been  a misrepresentation. In particular, the bank looked at the 
purchase contract,  but it found nothing in the terms and conditions of the contract to suggest 
that the credits  could  be redeemed. Because of this, NatWest wasnt able to conclude that 
the information showed that thered been  a misrepresentation.
I dont think there was anything unfair or unreasonable  about  the way in which NatWest 
looked at Mr Ls claim.
I appreciate that NatWest  subsequently upheld the claim. But I can see that the claims 
management company  pursued the claim in a different way to Mr L. And it provided 
additional information to the bank which hadnt been provided before. The claims 
management company  focussed its arguments  on breach of contract. Specifically it said that 
Mr L hadnt been able to use any of the credits  or vouchers  with the retails partners. It also 
argued that some of the terms implied under the CRA 2015 had been  breached  by the seller.
I understand that Mr L feels that the claims management company provided  the same  
information as he did. But I dont agree. Mr L brought his claim on the basis that the 
redeemability of the credits had been misrepresented. The claims management company 
brought the claim  on the basis that the credits  and voucher couldnt be used in the way the 
contract said they could  be used.
So although  arising out of the same  facts, I think the arguments put forward by the claims 
management company  were totally different  to those put forward  by Mr L. In the 
circumstances I dont  think  the bank acted unfairly.
Ref: DRN25656213Ive noted Mr Ls comments regarding his belief that NatWest knew that the contract was a 
scam and that the bank had settled these  types  of claims before. Ive seen no evidence to 
support this. But even  if the bank had settled similar claims before, this doesnt  mean  it was 
obliged to settle Mr Ls claim. The bank  is entitled  to look at every claim on its merits and 
decide whether  the information  supplied proves  that theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. 
I understand that Mr L is unhappy that hes had to pay fees to a claims management 
company in respect of a claim which he feels the bank shouldve settled. Ive already 
explained why I dont think the bank  dealt with the claim unfairly. I appreciate  that it may not 
have been clear to Mr L that he could pursue the claim via this service if he wished. The last 
letter Mr L received  from the bank didnt give referral rights. But it did make reference to 
further evidence and I think on balance its clear that the letter  wasnt  a final response.  So I 
dont think the bank has done anything  wrong here. It was asking Mr L to provide more  
information. 
Taking everything into account,  Im not upholding the complaint. For the reasons Ive given I 
dont think the bank has acted unfairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2565621