K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr S says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr S aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding  it 
to his card. The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago so its not surprising that theres  
no sales documentation  available. But Lloyds  has been able to send us a copy of the kind of 
application form that was in use at the time. The forms  present the PPI as optional  and 
require the consumer to give their consent to take PPI. So I think its likely  Lloyds made  it 
clear that Mr S didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why he may not remember this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr S has told us he was entitled  to generous  sick pay from his employer when he took the 
PPI so he didnt  have a need  for it. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to Mr Ss sick 
pay, and for longer than he would  have received full pay. Based on what  Ive seen of Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
Ref: DRN22589582my final decision
The PPI policy werent mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have  to pay back  the cost of 
the PPI to Mr S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2258958