K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about CIP Insurance Brokers  Ltd. He isnt happy about the fact that it 
didnt set up a commercial agricultural policy for him that covered his hired  equipment. 
background
Mr S had an agricultural  commercial policy which he organised through CIP over a number 
of years.  He put a claim  in after a harvester he had hired was damaged by ingress in August 
2015  a stone had gone in through the harvesters front blades causing  a significant 
amount of damage. 
When Mr S made the claim  through his broker it transpired that Mr S wasnt insured as he 
thought he was. CIP had placed Mr S with a particular insurer,  but that insurer had 
withdrawn from the market in March  2015. CIP said that it made Mr S aware of this and the 
fact that it could no longer get cover  for him. But there isnt any record of this. CIP went  on to 
try and insure Mr S with a new insurer the day after he made his claim for the harvester. And 
looked to make a claim to that insurer for the damaged  combine  harvester  which 
understandably was turned down as it wasnt on cover  at the time of claim.
Ultimately, CIP said that Mr S was aware  that it wasnt able to get full cover  for all his 
insurance needs in March  2015.  It highlighted that as far as it was aware all of the 
agricultural equipment  that was on Mr Ss policy was owned by him and said that any hired 
plant wouldnt have  been covered in any event.
Although Mr S tried to work  this through with CIP, as he had a longstanding relationship with 
it, things werent finalised. And as CIP maintained he wasnt insured, and so not covered for 
the claim,  Mr S complained to this service.
Two case handlers from this service  looked into Mr Ss complaint for him. They  undertook a 
number of enquiries and a great deal of investigation. And they were both of the view that 
the complaint  should be upheld. They highlighted that CIP hadnt  been able to provide any 
real supporting notes  or evidence that it advised  Mr S that he wouldnt  be covered in this 
scenario. And they were  satisfied that Mr S had made it clear to CIP that he hired plant 
equipment. So, they thought CIP should look to pay the claim as if cover  was in place (by 
finalising this with the plant provider who had to repair the damaged harvester) and pay Mr S 
£250 compensation. 
As CIP didnt agree the matter has been passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so and considered CIPs 
and Mr Ss further representations  since this services adjudication and further  view Im 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
This case is difficult to decide and is significantly  hampered by the lack of detail and 
information provided by CIP. The details of insurance cover arent very clear.  But it appears 
that Mr S arranged his insurance through CIP over a number of years and relied on their 
professional expertise as an insurance broker to understand  his business model and needs. 
Ref: DRN27426092Mr S has highlighted throughout that he relied on CIP who advertised  that customers can let 
us make sure youre covered.
It is clear that Mr S met with a senior  partner/director and discussed his business  model  and 
explained that he owned, leased and hired agricultural equipment and machinery. He tried to 
meet with the senior partner in order to discuss this on a number of occasions after the claim 
but for some reason  the representative of CIP wouldnt meet him. CIP hasnt really  provided 
any commentary about this, but I find Mr Ss testimony persuasive here. I certainly think it is 
clear that Mr S hired plant and I think CIP shouldve understood  this. Indeed,  his original 
insurance (arranged by CIP) provided cover for his needs. And I think  this evidences the fact 
that CIP understood Mr Ss position and business needs.
It would appear that during the early part of 2015 the previous insurance provider (who 
provided full cover for Mr S including his hired  agricultural  equipment)  withdrew from the 
market. And CIP didnt  renew Mr Ss policy with the insurer in March  2015. It initially wasnt 
clear if CIP placed Mr S on cover elsewhere  at this time. But it appears that it had a number 
of conversations with insurers, but they wouldnt provide  cover. CIP say that they told Mr S 
about this but there isnt any record of this. I know CIP had technology problems  when it 
moved computer systems  which has meant a loss of data.  But given that Mr S raised a claim 
a few months later I would expect it to have maintained  a separate  file about all of this. I 
would expect it to be able to provide good  documentation and notes (indeed  it is obliged to), 
but it hasnt which is surprising.
One of the factors that persuades me that this case should be upheld  stems from the fact 
that CIP looked  to place Mr S on cover the day after he made the claim with a different 
insurer. I wonder why this action was undertaken, around the time of claim, if Mr S had been 
clearly advised that he wasnt  covered. I say this as CIP should have just reiterated  that Mr S 
wasnt covered as opposed to get cover  elsewhere  and to put a claim in. Again it was clear 
that Mr S had hired the harvester  and had to use a replacement which CIP clearly knew was 
hired. Given all of this and the fact that CIP cant provide any evidence  that it told Mr S he 
wasnt on cover for his hired  equipment from March 2015 I think  it should  cover the claim as 
if insurance was in place.
I am certainly not persuaded that Mr S would have just gone  ahead and hired expensive 
agricultural equipment  that was uninsured. It hasnt  been possible  to establish if CIP would 
have been able to gain Mr S the appropriate  cover at that time. But Im satisfied  Mr S would 
have ensured that he was insured  by going  through a different broker, or he wouldve 
chosen to operate his business  differently  or ensured that the plant hire provider arranged 
insurance  indeed, CIP managed to arrange  the appropriate cover later that year. I certainly 
dont think Mr S wouldve  run the risk, with very expensive equipment, of not being insured 
and he relied on CIP for its professional advice on his insurance  needs.  
CIPs response to the adjudication mainly questioned how Mr S had made his complaint to 
this service and questioned  how his business was set up. All these  issues  have been 
addressed separately  and I have no concerns about  any of this. But it didnt really offer any 
further explanation or clarification about what had happened around the time Mr Ss cover 
with his previous  insurer  lapsed or provide any further evidence  in support of its position.
Ultimately, CIP had a regulatory duty under this advised  sale to establish  the needs  of Mr S. 
This included asking questions about his risk, the general status of his fleet and how his 
business worked in order  to ensure  it was able to find him suitable cover.  It seems  clear that 
it undertook at least part of its requirements  (probably in the meeting with the senior 
Ref: DRN27426093partner/director) when  placing Mr S on cover with the previous insurer  that withdrew from the 
market when his policy stopped in March 2015. 
So, given that I dont think Mr S wouldve decided to go uninsured  for a large part of his 
business need and CIP had a duty to consider his needs and advise  him I agree that it has 
allowed him (for reasons  that remain unclear) to underinsure. And so I think  it should step in 
and provide cover equal to that Mr S had before the claim and had he been  properly 
advised. It should pay the outstanding debt that Mr S is being  chased for by the company 
that hired him the harvester.  It should  negotiate  quantum direct ensuring that Mr S has 
nothing to pay in relation  to this claim and doesnt  face any detrimental outcome.
Finally, I agree that all of this has caused an unnecessary strain and burden on Mr S and his 
business. He has been chased  for an outstanding debt and CIP hasnt ensured  Mr S was 
insured when he reasonably believed he was (as he had been previously). As such, I think 
£250 compensation seems fair in the circumstances. 
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require CIP Insurance  
Brokers Ltd to liaise with the harvester provider to agree quantum ensuring that Mr S doesnt 
owe anything in relation to this claim and that it doesnt have any detrimental  effect  on him. 
And pay £250 compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2021.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2742609