K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained that AIG Life Limited unfairly turned down a claim under his wifes 
Critical Illness with Term  Assurance cover and cancelled  the policy from the start. 
background
Mrs E applied for Critical Illness with Term  Assurance cover  (the policy) on 17 July 2013, 
through her broker. As part of the application she was asked a number of questions  about 
her health  and lifestyle.
Mrs E disclosed that shed been  diagnosed  with post-natal depression  and had been 
prescribed medication for this. In follow up questions she was asked:  
Have you ever taken an overdose of drugs,  attempted suicide or had suicidal feelings?
Has there  been  any change  to your treatment in the last year?
Mrs E answered no to the first question, and no change   same type and amount of 
medication in response to the second question. AIG accepted  the application based on 
Mrs Es answers and cover  started  on 29 July 2013. 
Mrs E sadly  died on 2 September 2015, and a claim was submitted to AIG. The cause  of 
Mrs Es death was unknown at the time, and an inquest was ordered. 
As the cause of death had yet to be determined, and given the circumstances surrounding 
Mrs Es death, AIG sought to obtain a copy of the coroners report before  reaching a 
decision on the claim. There were subsequently  delays in obtaining the coroners report, so 
AIG wrote to Mrs Es GP to ask for her medical records for the five years prior to policy 
application. The information provided highlighted that Mrs E had a long history  of depression 
and had taken  an overdose of drugs on several  occasions. Her records also showed shed 
had some suicidal  feelings before the policy was taken out. And in the month  before she 
applied for cover her medication had been  increased.  
AIG discussed what itd found with Mr E and asked for his recollections. He explained  that 
he wasnt aware of Mrs Es previous overdoses, but he felt as they were  so long ago, when 
Mrs Es state of mind  was different, she wouldve thought she was entitled to disregard them. 
AIG agreed  to await the information  it had requested  from the coroner before reaching  a 
decision on the claim.  
AIG received the coroners report in January 2018. It confirmed in February 2018 that it was 
declining the claim.  It explained that had it known about Mrs Es medical  history  it wouldnt 
have offered her any cover. So, to put all parties back  into the position they wouldve been 
in, it cancelled the policy from the start and refunded the premiums  that had been paid. 
Mr E complained that AIGs decision was unfair.  He felt it was unfair  for AIG to refer back to 
Mrs Es past overdoses, as the coroner had confirmed her death was accidental and not 
related to her mental health.  He also said AIG was aware that she suffered from postnatal  
depression, which can lead to suicidal thoughts, when she applied for cover.
Ref: DRN29097562As AIG wouldnt change  its decision, Mr E referred  a complaint to our service for 
consideration via a representative. 
Our investigator considered the case,  but didnt uphold  it. He was satisfied that Mrs E had 
been asked clear questions about her past medical history and that she ought  reasonably  
have been able to answer them accurately.  He said that whilst  her past medical  history  
played no part in her tragic death,  it would have made a difference  to AIG when deciding  
whether or not to offer her cover.  He was satisfied that AIG had demonstrated that had it 
known the full extent of Mrs Es past medical  history it wouldnt have offered her any cover.  
So he considered it was fair for AIG to now cancel the policy from the start and refund all 
premiums paid. As no policy would have  existed it couldnt reasonably be expected  to pay 
the claim.  
Mr Es representative disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an 
ombudsmans review.  The representative noted  it was understandable that Mrs E was 
reluctant, or even  unable, to reveal  details from her past. But they noted that Mrs E had 
made AIG aware she was suffering from postnatal depression and argued it was therefore  
for AIG to assess this properly at the time.  They also disputed that AIG wouldnt have offered 
any cover  had they known  her full medical history. 
As theres  been  no agreement, the case has been  passed to me to reach a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to pass on my condolences to Mr E and his family.  I was very sorry to read about the 
tragic circumstances of Mrs Es death.  I can only imagine  the past few years  mustve been 
incredibly difficult for Mr E and his family  pursuing the claim and subsequent complaint. 
After carefully weighing all the evidence presented by both sides, Im afraid Im not upholding 
this complaint. I know this will be very disappointing news  for Mr E. I want  to assure him that 
I didnt take this decision lightly. While I dont want to add to his distress, I cant say AIG has 
acted unfairly by cancelling the policy and turning down  the claim. Ill explain  why. 
Before I turn to the substance of this complaint, I wanted to address what I understand to be 
Mr Es main cause of concern. Hes argued AIGs decision is unfair because Mrs Es death 
was in no way related  to her past medical history. Id like to reassure him that theres no 
dispute on this point. The evidence is clear that Mrs E died following a tragic  accident. The 
issue I have to consider  is whether Mrs E gave incorrect answers when she applied  for cover 
that caused AIG to offer cover it wouldnt otherwise have offered.  
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding  approach  to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and insurer  when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA  places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading),  provided 
the insurer has asked  a clear question. If the consumer  doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions  accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
Was there a misrepresentation?
Ref: DRN29097563Im satisfied AIGs  questions, as set out above, were clear and unambiguous. Im satisfied 
that Mrs E should therefore reasonably have been able to answer them  truthfully and to the 
best of her ability. 
I can also see that as part of the application process Mrs E was told on several occasions 
about the importance of answering questions honestly,  accurately and to the best of your 
knowledge.  She was also warned  that if she failed to answer  questions  correctly it may lead 
to her policy being cancelled and any future claims being rejected. 
While Mrs E answered that shed never taken an overdose of drugs, her medical  records 
show this to be incorrect. Although the overdoses had happened many years  before the 
application was completed,  the question asked  if shed  ever taken an overdose. Despite  
the time that had passed, I consider that Mrs E wouldve  reasonably been able to recall that 
she had taken an overdose on more than one occasion. 
I can understand there may have  been  reasons why Mrs E may not have wanted to, or 
indeed felt comfortable, disclosing this information  to AIG. But ultimately AIG was entitled to 
ask the question and the answer given was incorrect.  
Mr Es representatives have suggested  that AIG shouldve  been aware that Mrs E was at 
risk of suicide and suicidal feelings because shed disclosed  she was suffering from 
postnatal depression. But I disagree. 
AIG was only expected  to assess Mrs Es application based on the information she disclosed  
to it. While suicide and suicidal feelings  may feature in some people  with postnatal 
depression, this wont always be the case. Thats why AIG asked Mrs E follow  up questions 
to help it further understand the extent of her diagnosis  and the impact  it had on her. It was 
these follow  up questions  that Mrs E failed to answer correctly. 
Mrs Es medical records also show that shed  had suicidal  thoughts  or feelings  as recently as 
2010. Again,  I consider that Mrs E should reasonably have disclosed this to AIG in response 
to the application questions. 
Mrs E also answered that thered been  no change to her treatment for postnatal depression 
within the last year. This has also been  shown to be incorrect. A month before completing 
the application, Mrs E had seen her GP as shed experienced low mood and was struggling 
with stress. To help her cope the GP increased the dosage of her antidepressant 
medication. Given how close this appointment was to when Mrs E completed the application,  
I consider she should reasonably have recalled  this and disclosed  it to AIG. 
In view of this I think AIG was fair to say that Mrs E had failed to accurately answer the 
application questions, and had misrepresented  her state of health, when applying  for cover.
What would AIG have  done differently?
Its sadly not possible to ask Mrs E why she answered the questions in the way she did. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that she deliberately,  or recklessly, withheld information  from AIG. It 
may have  been  that she simply overlooked the questions. But even if she did, CIDRA sets 
out that such a misrepresentation  should  be classed as careless . 
Ref: DRN29097564CIDRA explains that where  its found that a consumer has made a careless  
misrepresentation, the insurer is entitled  to take the action it wouldve taken had it known the 
relevant information  at the point of application.  
AIG has demonstrated, with evidence  from its underwriting  manuals from 2013, that had it 
known Mrs E had overdosed on drugs  in the past and recently had her medication 
increased, it wouldnt have offered her any cover. 
While this may seem like an extreme outcome,  its not for me to decide what level of risk AIG 
should accept  when a customer applies for cover. Insurers are entitled to decide who to 
insure, what cover its prepared to offer, and on what terms. My role is to ensure that when 
retrospectively underwriting  a policy, as AIG has done in this case,  it does so fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with the guidance  it would  have followed at the time of the 
application. In this case, Im satisfied AIG wouldnt have offered Mrs E cover had it known 
the full extent of her medical history  when she first applied for cover.  
As such,  I consider that AIG has acted fairly and reasonably by cancelling the policy and 
returning the premiums  Mrs E had paid towards  the policy. This effectively returns both 
parties to the position they wouldve been in had cover not started. 
Assessment of the claim
This claim  was ongoing for an unusually long period of time before AIG reached its decision.  
I dont doubt this wouldve added to Mr Es stress  and worry throughout this time. But having  
carefully considered  the events that took place between the claim being  submitted and a 
decision being reached, I cant  say that AIG acted unfairly or unreasonably delayed  the 
assessment of the claim.  
When AIG was first made aware  of the claim, there  was a lot of uncertainty around the 
circumstances of Mrs Es death.  In the circumstances, I consider that AIG was entitled to 
await the outcome  of the coroners report before reaching a decision on the claim. This was 
so it could consider,  amongst other things, whether there was anything  to lead it to believe 
Mrs E had failed to disclose any relevant information  at the point of application. 
While this may seem insensitive,  or as if AIG is looking for reasons to avoid the claim,  it is a 
fair and reasonable part of an insurers claims handling process.  An insurer has a 
responsibility to all its policyholders to ensure  it only pays out on valid claims. While the 
circumstances of Mrs E death  were  tragic, and I can understand why Mr E would have 
hoped for a quick answer, Im satisfied there were valid reasons  for AIG to want to know  
more information  before reaching a decision on the claim. 
When it became clear that thered be a long delay before  receiving the coroners report, AIG 
asked for Mrs Es medical records for the five years  before she completed  the application. 
Again, I consider  this was reasonable in the circumstances. 
The information that was provided highlighted the information discussed above  that Mrs E 
should have disclosed  in response to the application  questions.  AIG explained its findings  to 
Mr E at the time, and the possible consequences of what it had found. 
While AIG could  arguably have declined the claim and cancelled  the policy  at this time, I 
dont think it was unreasonable  to await the coroners report  before reaching  a final decision.  
Its possible the coroners  report may have led to it reaching a different conclusion. 
Ref: DRN29097565Im satisfied that once  AIG had received the coroners report, it reached a conclusion  to 
decline the claim and cancel the policy promptly. 
So I cant say that AIG caused an unreasonable delay in the assessment of the claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2909756