K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003. Mr 
and Mrs A say Yorkshire Building Society  (YBS)  mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs A took out their mortgage  via an introducer. Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage 
application form that was completed and I can see that PPI was not selected at this time. 
YBS says that after it received Mr and Mrs As mortgage application it wouldve sent them a 
PPI application  form offering  them  the policy with 6 months  free cover. And Ive seen a copy 
of the completed  and signed application  form in which Mr and Mrs A chose to take out the 
cover in Mr As name only.  So I think what YBS have said about  how this policy was sold is 
probably correct. 
And based on this evidence,  I think  YBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs A didnt have to take 
out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although  I can understand if they cant  remember 
this. I say this because Mr and Mrs A selected accident, sickness  and unemployment cover 
on the PPI application form and signed  it to agree to the policy.  This was done after the 
mortgage application was completed  and signed, and Ive not seen anything in the PPI 
application form which suggests the policy was compulsory, so I think Mr and Mrs A 
wouldve known they didnt have to take out this type of cover.
After the free period  ended, YBS sent Mr and Mrs A a letter confirming that PPI premiums 
would be charged  going forward. Mr and Mrs A say that they called  YBS at this point to 
discuss the cover, but they were  told they should keep the policy. I dont have a recording of 
this call to hear what was said so I cant know exactly what  was discussed. But even  if YBS 
did tell Mr and Mrs A that they should keep the policy, this is different  to saying they have  to 
keep the policy.  And as I said above, I think Mr and Mrs A were already aware the PPI was 
optional and they agreed to take it out  so I think they wanted this type of cover.  
Mr and Mrs A say YBS recommended the PPI to them. YBS says it didnt. As things stand 
there isnt enough  information to determine this point. But being able to do so isnt crucial  to 
the outcome because, had YBS recommended the policy, I think it wouldve been  a suitable 
recommendation to have  made for the reasons I set out below. As a result, Ive considered 
the complaint  on the same basis as YBS.
As a recommended  sale YBS had to check that the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs A  and 
based on what Ive seen of Mr As circumstances (as the insured party) at the time, I think 
that it was. For example  they werent  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and they seem to have had a need for it.  
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
Ref: DRN26246922And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs A have  said including what theyve said about 
wanting the cover in joint names. However  looking at the PPI application form I can see that 
the benefit amount was entered for Mr A only, therefore only Mr A would be entitled  to claim 
on the policy. Mr and Mrs A signed  the application form confirming this decision. I think  its 
possible Mr and Mrs A didnt  realise that they had to enter  a benefit amount for Mrs A as 
well. But this wasnt YBSs fault. Ive also seen  that the mortgage offer and the PPI schedule 
shows that cover had been  taken out in Mr As name. So I think  Mr and Mrs A had the 
opportunity to check this and contact YBS if they werent happy with the selections theyd 
made on their PPI application  form. So this point doesnt change my decision.  
This means  YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A. But 
YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A because : 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs A about that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs A any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs A any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs A the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs A 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs A can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs A any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26246923
Ref: DRN2624692