K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains she didnt receive  notice of a change Lloyds Bank Plc made to the way 
they charge her for using  her overdraft. She says Lloyds should  refund her the fees she paid 
before she understood what was happening on her account and cleared her balance.
background
Mrs M has had an overdraft of £3000 with Lloyds for a number of years, which  she used 
regularly.
In November 2017 Lloyds changed the way they charge their customers for using their 
overdrafts. Instead  of a monthly usage fee, interest and other fees, they switched to a daily 
fee based on 1p per £7 of balance used. This resulted in Mrs M paying quite a bit more  for 
her overdraft than before.
In April 2018 Mrs M complained to Lloyds. She said she hadnt received any notice of the 
change they made, and hadnt noticed  the smaller amounts charged on her account  each  
day. She used her savings to clear  her balance and asked Lloyds to refund her the fees 
shed been charged since the change was made.
Lloyds said they sent Mrs M notice  of the change  by letter in August 2017 and this was in 
line with the terms  and conditions of the account.  As a result they wouldnt refund her the 
charges shed incurred prior to her bringing her balance back into credit.  Unhappy  with this 
response Mrs M brought  her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Ms complaint. They found:
-Its not for us to conclude whether the change Lloyds made was in general unfair. 
This could affect consumers who dont have complaints with us and is more a 
challenge for regulators to make. What we should consider is the fairness of the 
change they made in so far as it affected  Mrs M personally.
-Lloyds had a record of their notification letter being sent to the address  they had for 
Mrs M, so it was likely  it had been  sent.
-It was more likely the letter was received. Mrs M had been sent statements both 
before and after this period and there wasnt an indication these hadnt been 
received. Its also not uncommon for banking  literature not to be read or mislaid.
Mrs M disagreed. She said her account is set to paperless. Her address has a shared 
mailbox, so its not certain she will receive  post.  She doesnt expect to receive literature from 
Lloyds by post. She provided a copy of the final response letter  Lloyds sent her which she 
says she picked up in branch to support this.
Our investigator asked  Lloyds whether  Mrs M receives her statements online, which Lloyds  
confirmed is the case. But Lloyds said they send some important literature by post, such as 
those which  involve changes to an account. They say they are allowed to do so under their 
internet banking terms and conditions. Our investigator re-considered  Mrs Ms complaint in 
light of this, but it didnt  change  their opinion.
Ref: DRN23384722Mrs Ms complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
what does the law say?
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  says an unfair  term isnt binding on a consumer. An 
example it gives of a term thats likely to be unfair,  is one that allows a business  to change 
its terms unilaterally without giving a valid reason in the contract. But it also provides several 
exclusions. One of these  is a term allowing a change in charges, providing the consumer is 
told about it at the earliest opportunity, and can exit the contract. And another  is a term in a 
contract - such as a current  account  - where the consumer must be told of the change and 
can exit the contract.
Mrs Ms current account
The relevant  terms in Mrs Ms contract are quite broad  and on the face of it appear to give
Lloyds a wide discretion to make changes to the way they charge for their account. But 
because of how they are worded, its also possible Mrs M wouldnt have foreseen the kind of 
change Lloyds chose  to make when she first opened her account. After  all, this was quite 
different to interest  rate changes theyve made before.
was notice sent to Mrs M?
Im persuaded Lloyds  sent a letter to the address they have for Mrs M. And that this letter  
contained notification  of the change  they were to make to her current account. Theyve 
provided their record of dispatch,  which I consider  to be reliable. And as this was sent in 
August 2018,  this complied with the terms of the account. The terms required Lloyds  to give 
at least 60 days notice.
I think its possible someone intercepted the notification  in light of Mrs M having a shared 
mailbox. But its also possible she did receive  the letter but may have mislaid it or not read it. 
Indeed, I dont think its uncommon  for banking literature not to be read in full.
I understand Mrs M set her account  to paperless, so she likely expected to receive 
notification of a change to her terms and conditions online. Lloyds however has told me they 
only sent paperless notification to consumers  who didnt  use their overdraft. And I can see 
the terms of their internet banking, which Mrs M wouldve agreed to, do permit them to still 
send correspondence  by post.  
Lloyds has provided  a record of the amount of times Mrs Ms online banking account was 
logged into. This shows a high frequency of log-ins  throughout November 2017 and the 
following months. I understand  Mrs M has savings accounts with Lloyds and she may have 
been logging  in relation  to them. But I find it unlikely she didnt  also review her current  
account balance.
Ref: DRN23384723I agree  the daily fee is small in comparison to Mrs Ms overdraft balance.  But it wouldve 
appeared on her balance  breakdown every  day. And considering  how much her online 
account was used, I think shed have noticed it sometime  before April 2018. So on balance  
Im not persuaded she wouldve cleared her balance before the change came into effect any 
sooner than she did.
could Mrs M have exited her contract?
The terms of the current account do allow Mrs M to exit her contract at any time. But whether 
she could exit her contract before the change is also a practical consideration. 
Its clear Mrs M was able to pay off her balance in 2018. She says her savings wouldve also 
been available to her in November 2017. So I think this demonstrates she had the flexibility 
to pay off her overdraft before the change took effect.
financial difficulties
Im sorry  to hear Mrs M is experiencing  difficulty now because  she was relying  on her 
savings for income  after graduating.  But her overdraft is revocable and represents money 
she borrowed from Lloyds which they couldve  recalled at any time.  So I dont think using her 
available funds to pay off what she owed was an unreasonable action to have taken.
Lloyds has a responsibility to see how they can help customers who are in financial difficulty. 
So if Mrs M does  fall into difficulty  with her overdraft in the future she may wish to contact 
them to see what they can do.
Mrs M might also wish to seek  free advice from other organisations, which may be able to 
help her beyond  her Lloyds account. She is welcome to contact us if she would like the 
contact details of some of these organisations.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2338472