K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Arval UK Limited has taken additional money out of his account  for 
rental payments without  his agreement.
background
Mr W signed a rental  agreement for a car in June 2015. The terms of the agreement 
provided for an initial rental of £620.83  followed by 35 further payments of £206.95.
The initial rental payment  was taken on 5 August 2015. On 1 September 2015  Mr W was 
sent an invoice  for 2 rental payments totalling £413.90  to cover the period 20 August to 19 
September and 20 September  to 19 October 2015. The invoice stated  that the amount would 
be collected by Direct  Debit on 15 September 2015.  Mr W does not recall  receiving this 
invoice.  
Arval explains that according to its records,  Mr W called on 2 September 2015 about the 
invoice and it was agreed that it would be split. The arrangement was that Mr W would pay 
£206.95 manually  and the remaining amount of £206.95 would  be collected at the end of the 
agreement. Mr W explains that he has no recollection of this arrangement and he was sent 
no paperwork to confirm  that agreement. Arval hasnt been able to produce  any call 
recording because of the time that has passed.
Mr W entered into a new agreement at the end of the term and was surprised when £206.95  
was taken from his account alongside  the first rental  for the new car. Mr W says he would 
like confirmation that this split was agreed  and evidence that he signed or consented to the 
arrangement.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  was upheld. He thought that it was 
likely that Mr W had consented to the split payment on the basis that he made a manual  
payment in September 2015 and would have had to have been given Arvals bank details to 
make this payment.  He looked at the amounts paid under the agreement  and considered  
that they were  correct  and Arval hadnt  done anything wrong.
Mr W didnt agree and said that it was wrong  that Arval  couldnt produce any evidence to 
support this agreement. He pointed to errors  in invoices for July 2018  and said that it was 
likely that Arval was mistaken and should  not have taken these amounts. So the complaint 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Mr W is frustrated about the lack of confirmation  regarding the 
agreement. Given  the time that has passed  it is not surprising that he cannot  now be certain  
about what happened. I also agree that it would have been  good practice to have written to 
Mr W at the time to confirm the arrangement and again as the agreement was coming  to a 
close to remind him about the split payment arrangement.  But it doesnt follow that because 
Arval didnt do these  things the arrangement wasnt made.
Ref: DRN29032842I have looked  at the accounts information provided by Arval.  I can see that an invoice was 
sent to Mr W dated 1 September 2015  for £413.90.  That invoice states that the amount will 
be taken by direct debit on 15 September 2015.  Although Mr W says he didnt receive this 
invoice I have no reason to doubt it was sent. It is correctly addressed and sets out the 
charges due at the time of the invoice.   
Arval says Mr W contacted it on 2 September 2015 and it was agreed  that he would pay half 
of the invoice and the remaining half would be collected at the end of the agreement. Arval 
says that Mr W made a manual payment on 22 September 2015 and it gave him bank 
details to do this. Mr W, although he cant recall this arrangement, hasnt produced any 
evidence that would  enable me to conclude otherwise. I would anticipate  that his bank 
statements for this period  would reflect this scenario. The direct debits were  usually taken  on 
or around  the 15 of each month.  Mr Ws bank  statements would presumably show  that the 
September 15 debit  was not collected and a payment was made manually on the 22. 
Further, his statements would show that there  were  no payments under the agreement other 
than the initial payment  made in August until this date. 
I consider that it is likely that Mr W contacted Arval on receipt of the September  invoice and 
arranged to split the payment as it was for a double rental and he is now unable  to recall this 
conversation or the invoice.
Looking at the payments Mr W has made according  to Arvals records  I can see that they 
reflect a split arrangement and he has not paid more than he should have under the 
agreement.
As I said at the outset  I can appreciate  why Mr W is frustrated at the lack of evidence that is 
available now but I cant say that Arval  has done  anything wrong.
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
23 May 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2903284