K820x#14complaint
D, a corporate  body, complains about  poor service  from TSB Bank plc, in particular in 
relation to telephone banking. D is represented by one of its members,  who Ill refer to as 
Mr P. 
background
Mr P says he registered for telephone  banking  for Ds accounts in August 2017 and used 
telephone banking without difficulty. When he called TSB in March 2019 he found his 
registration had been cancelled. TSB cant explain why. 
Mr P wants  TSB to acknowledge D is already registered for telephone banking  and 
compensate him for the time hes spent sorting this out. He also complains that TSB hasnt 
responded to his letters about the complaint.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said he 
understood the difficulties for Mr P, but it wasnt wrong for TSB to ask him to identify himself 
when he called or re-register for telephone  banking. Our investigator said while  it would have 
been better if TSB had responded to Mr Ps letters, it had sent its final response so it hadnt  
acted unfairly in relation to the complaint.
Mr P didnt agree. He said TSB ought to explain why it cancelled his telephone banking 
without telling him and accept  this was a bank error. He said he will have to spend  time 
completing forms and TSB hadnt  previously told him he could use his bank card to identify 
himself. He said TSB hadnt  treated D or him fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr P registered for telephone banking for Ds accounts in 2017 and says he used it without  
difficulty. In April 2019 he called TSB and was told he was no longer registered  for telephone 
banking. 
TSB says telephone  banking was in place in 2017,  but isnt in place now.  
Mr P didnt cancel his telephone banking and TSB hasnt suggested he did so. I think its 
likely the cancellation  was due to a bank error.  I understand  Mr Ps frustration  that TSB 
hasnt acknowledged  that it could have  made  an error. It seems TSB doesnt know  how the 
cancellation happened, so theres  little to be achieved in me ordering it to provide an 
explanation. 
TSB says it cant now set up telephone banking using information from 2017.It says Mr P 
can complete the form to register for telephone banking. I appreciate this is inconvenient. 
But, unfortunately, the current  situation is that the registration isnt in place and if Mr P wants 
to be registered  for telephone banking hell need  to complete the form. I dont think  its 
Ref: DRN21227132reasonable to require  TSB to set up telephone  banking for him outside its usual process,  
which is intended to protect the security of accounts. 
TSB also said that Mr P can identify himself when he calls using specific  information.  Hell be 
able to get some account information if he does  this. But if Mr P wants  to authorise 
transactions hell need to re-register for telephone banking.
TSBs final response letter asked Mr P to contact it if he felt it hadnt  understood  its response  
or if he wanted more  information. So I can understand that Mr P is upset that it didnt reply 
when he wrote to it again. 
I need to bear in mind that the complainant here is D. D is a body corporate and doesnt feel 
upset or frustration. So I cant award  compensation for this. Theres  no suggestion that D 
has been caused any financial loss or that the account signatories havent been  able to 
authorise transactions on the account by other means.
I do understand that this has caused  Mr P trouble and upset. But I cant  generally award 
compensation to third parties, such as Mr P, as they arent the complainant  under our rules. 
While TSB made an error when Mr Ps telephone banking was cancelled,  it explained what 
hed need to do to re-register. I dont think,  in the circumstances,  its fair and reasonable to 
require it to do more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2122713