K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Nottingham Building Society (Nottingham) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought the PPI policy at a meeting in 1996 with a mortgage. The mortgage 
and policy  started in 1997.
Nottingham has told us the policy cover  was on Mr B and not Mrs B. At the time Mr B was 
employed as a van driver and had been  there  a year and a half, according to Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage application. From what Mr and Mrs B have  told us, Mr B was entitled to less than 
three months sick pay and at least three  months redundancy pay. 
Mrs B was employed as a machinist and had been there six and a half years, according to 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application  form. From  what Mr and Mrs B have told us, Mrs B was 
entitled to full sick pay and at least one months redundancy pay. From  what theyve told us, 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  have savings or, aside from the above, any cover for their mortgage  
payments if Mr B couldnt  work - and they were  in good health at the time of the sale.
From what  Ive seen, the policy likely offered cover for disability  and unemployment (subject 
to the policy  limitations  and exclusions).  Nottingham  has told us the policy  would pay £200 a 
month towards Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage balance in the event  of a successful claim and cost 
around £11 per month. Evidence provided  by Nottingham suggests the mortgage payment  
was £201 a month. It has also sent evidence to show the mortgage  account closed in 2004.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Bs representative  says:
 
Nottingham failed  to meet the sales standards  which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; 
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Nottingham should have told 
Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nottingham should  have  
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs B and 
the impact they would have had on their chances  of making a claim; and
The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN28890552Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nottingham  at the time.  So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
 
Ref: DRN28890553Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Building Societies Ombudsman  
in this case  might  have  been expected to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nottingham was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Nottingham gave advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nottingham gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in their favour, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr and Mrs B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs B and 
Nottingham, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
Nottingham had to make it clear  the PPI was optional. 
Mr and Mrs B have  said Nottingham told them they had to take the PPI to get the mortgage. 
I give what they say some  weight. But I also take into account that these recollections  were 
set out more than fifteen  years after the sale. Also, I havent seen anything else to make  me 
think Nottingham misled Mr and Mrs B into thinking they had to take the PPI. 
Ref: DRN28890554The mortgage application form says to take a mortgage with Nottingham the property had to 
be insured for the full rebuilding costs. It doesnt say PPI had to be taken.  Also, the mortgage 
application doesnt include a PPI application  section  so I think its likely Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have been able to take PPI without applying for it separately on a separate form. 
With all this in mind, on balance I think it was likely made clear that the PPI was something  
separate from the mortgage  and something Mr and Mrs B had a choice about  taking. But I 
can understand why they might not remember this now.
Mr and Mrs B have  also said they took the PPI because they were rushed or pressured by 
Nottingham. I give what they say some weight. But, again, I take into account that the sale 
was many years before these recollections were set out. In view of this, it isnt surprising that 
what Mr and Mrs B have  said about  this isnt very detailed. Also,  I havent  anything else that 
makes me think Nottingham  likely  pressured  Mr and Mrs B into choosing to take the cover or 
rushed them  into making  that choice. Taking account of all Mr and Mrs B have said about 
how the PPI was sold and about  why they took it, what theyve said doesnt  persuade  me on 
its own that they were  pressured. Looking at what I have overall,  it isnt enough to persuade 
me Nottingham most  likely  pressured Mr and Mrs B into taking the PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs B knew  the PPI policy  was 
optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
did Nottingham provide  advice?
Nottingham says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr and Mrs B disagree and have 
said they wouldnt have  taken the PPI if Nottingham  hadnt told them it was a good  idea. But 
Ive not seen anything else that makes me think Nottingham agreed to offer Mr and Mrs B 
advice on the suitability of the PPI for their circumstances  or told them it was right for them 
having considered their circumstances. Bearing  in mind also everything Mr and Mrs B have 
said about the sale and how long after the sale this was all set out, what  I have doesnt make 
me think advice was given by Nottingham. This means Nottingham didnt have to check  the 
PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs B. 
Instead, Nottingham had to give Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take the policy, including 
drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.
the information
Mr and Mrs B have  said the cost was discussed  and they were told the PPI would cover 
them if they lost their jobs for one year. From what Nottingham says, its likely cover  was on 
Mr B only.  Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs B were  given a broad description 
of what the policy was intended  to cover (that is that it would protect their payments if Mr B 
were unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs B wouldve taken 
the policy without  any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nottingham gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs B agreed  to take the policy.  
Ref: DRN28890555So I dont  think Nottingham gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take the policy, including 
drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Bs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nottingham ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Nottinghams shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs B suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Nottingham  didnt  do all it shouldve done when it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
wouldve still taken the policy, had Nottingham  done  things properly. 
Mr and Mrs B say they would not have taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs B had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr B being  unable to work.
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs B chose to take this policy.  So I consider its reasonable to 
conclude they had some  interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But they 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mr and Mrs B thought  they 
were getting  isnt exactly what they got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs B have  suffered  any loss or detriment. 
Ref: DRN28890556Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy - and theyve said that the cost was discussed  what I have isnt 
enough to persuade me Nottingham told them the exact premium at the point they applied 
for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs B were  told something about  the 
cost before the policy started. If the cost when they came to pay for it had been significantly 
different to this or to their expectations at the point of sale, its possible they mightve raised 
that with Nottingham  at the time or reconsidered  their decision. Overall,  I am not persuaded 
Mr and Mrs B would have found  the cost unacceptable if they had been  given the exact 
figure during the meeting in which they agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Nottingham  made clear  exactly  what Mr and Mrs B would get 
back in return in the event of a successful claim. But from the evidence  provided, its likely 
what the policy wouldve  paid in the event  of a claim wasnt significantly different to what  
Mr and Mrs B likely expected (an amount sufficient to meet  their mortgage payment).
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded disability resulting from any existing health issue  of which Mr B was 
or ought reasonably to have been  aware  or for which hed consulted or been treated by a 
doctor in the two years before the policy start and which  caused  disability during the 12 
months immediately following the policy start; 
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr B wasnt  
a permanent employee;
To be eligible  for a disability claim,  Mr B had to be totally unable  to attend  to his usual job 
and also unable to carry out any other work;  and
The policy excluded the first 60 days of any disability or unemployment - and then paid 
the policy benefit for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term of the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from taking it. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. Mr B was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to Mr and Mrs B should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr B 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  he didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I think Mr and Mrs B still had 
some good  reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs B had known they could  only claim for disability if Mr B were not only totally  
unable to attend to his usual job but also unable to carry out any other work, it might  have 
Ref: DRN28890557played into their thinking  about  what to do. And I accept it may have given them  pause  for 
thought  although given  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, on balance,  I think they still would 
have been interested in taking the cover.
Nottingham may not have told Mr and Mrs B the first 60 days  of disability or unemployment 
wouldnt be covered   and (though I note what theyve  said about this) it may not have told 
them benefits would be limited to 12 months. All this may have differed from what  they 
expected and might have  hoped for. But 12 months was longer  than Mr B wouldve received 
sick pay and his redundancy entitlement  was also likely significantly less than 12 months 
income. So I consider  it likely Mr and Mrs B wouldve still thought  a policy  that after 60 days 
paid the policy benefit for up to 12 months,  would be of benefit  and help them if Mr B couldnt 
work in the circumstances covered  by the policy. The benefit  would help cover the mortgage 
outgoings, making it less likely Mr and Mrs Bs home would be placed  at risk at what  could 
be a difficult and uncertain time if Mr B were unemployed or too sick to work.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs B would still have taken  the policy. It was sufficiently close  to what  its likely 
Mr and Mrs B thought they were getting  and provided benefits  that would help them manage 
the consequences if Mr B were made  redundant, or unable to work through  disability. In the 
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs B wouldve taken the policy in 
any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances into account,  as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude  the 
position they found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  That is because, while I accept its possible they wouldnt 
have taken the policy, Im satisfied that, of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not they 
Ref: DRN28890558would still have taken  the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in 
those circumstances,  to conclude Nottingham should pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as 
that would  put them  in a better position  than they would have been in if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B think Nottingham misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept theres  a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Nottinghams statements  misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why it failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  it gave Mr and Mrs B, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1996 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Nottingham negligently misrepresented  the contract  to Mr and Mrs B and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Nottingham  had been in breach 
of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out, I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 November 2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2889055