K820x#14complaint
Miss W says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey  National)  mis-sold  her a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2004. Miss W paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest,  and it covered her in case she lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case. 
Ive decided that Miss Ws PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because the policy closed over a decade  ago, Santander dont still have the documents  from 
the sale, but they have provided samples  of what Miss W wouldve seen. From those,  it 
looks like they wouldve presented the PPI as a separate product to the mortgage  and made  
it clear that Miss W didnt have to take it out. In order to get the policy,  she wouldve had to 
specifically apply for it, and she wouldve then got a letter confirming her choice. And Ive not 
seen any wider problems  with Santanders sales process from the time. So I think  its most 
likely that Santander  made Miss W aware  she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it at the time  though  I can understand if she might no longer remember  
doing so after so long.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Miss W, so they had to check it was right for her. And 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, 
Miss W wasnt affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations, and she doesnt  
seem to have had any other protection in place in case she lost her job, aside from basic 
redundancy pay that wouldve been  very limited. I understand that Miss Ws family wouldve 
been more than willing to help out, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help 
when needed.  And this policy meant Miss W wouldnt have to ask her family  to pay for her 
mortgage. Its worth bearing in mind that Miss W had sole responsibility for the mortgage,  
and if she fell behind  on her payments then she risked losing her home. So I think the PPI 
couldve really been useful for her in protecting her home and giving some peace of mind. 
Its possible that the information Santander  gave Miss W about PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  But as I explained above,  Miss W wasnt affected  by any of the main 
things the PPI didnt cover, and it couldve really  been useful for her in case  something went 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI wouldve been  affordable. So I dont think better  information  
was likely to have put Miss W off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN29982352my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2998235