K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC (Tesco) didnt explain that
transferring funds through a mobile  app would attract a charge, and affect his interest-free
credit card deal.
background
facts
Mr R had a Tesco credit card that was: (i) interest-free for 28 months  on new purchases; and
(ii) interest-free for three  months  on money  transfers. Shortly after being  issued  with it, he
found a car he wanted to buy and secured it with a deposit. Before setting off on the lengthy
journey to the garage selling the car, he checked his card was working, and he says it was.
But when he tried to use it at the garage, the card machine displayed a message that said
the PIN wasnt recognised.
Mr R contacted Tesco. Hes explained that he was told he might  be able to make  a manual
payment, swipe  and sign, or he could download  the mobile app. Mr R downloaded  the app
and paid for the car that way. Hes explained it wasnt until later that he realised  this method
of payment was a money transfer  - resulting in a charge  of over £300 being  applied to the
account. He also told us that his 28 month  interest-free  deal was reduced to three months.
Mr R says that neither  the Tesco operator  nor the mobile app warned him that this
transaction would  lead to this outcome.
Mr R complained to Tesco. He said that if he had known this would happen, he would have
made alternative arrangements. Mr R has since left Tesco for another  provider, incurring a
transfer fee.
Tesco has explained  that it never  mentioned money  transfers and neither did Mr R. Rather, it
said he might be able to make a manual payment without his PIN. It says that the charge
was applied correctly  and that it wasnt going  to refund it.
Mr R was unhappy with this outcome, so referred  the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. She listened to the recording of the
discussion between Mr R and Tesco. During this, the advisor used the word online, but she
felt it was unclear  why. She thought that the use of this word  had led to Mr R using the
mobile app. She noted there  was a transfer of funds warning on the app, but because  of the
situation Mr R was in, she thought  he might  have rushed through the pages of the app. She
said that Tesco should put things  right and explained how it should  do that.
Tesco disagreed.  It said that during the call, it hadnt recommended using the mobile app. It
says that the use of the word online  was in respect of a security issue  that had arisen. It 
reiterated that there is a warning on the mobile app, saying there  will be a charge incurred 
for making  a money transfer.  Tesco asked for this matter to be passed to an ombudsman for 
a decision.
my provisional decision
As I disagreed with our investigators  findings, I issued a provisional decision,  explaining 
why. It said as follows.
Ref: DRN22741252---
I can see that Mr R was looking forward to collecting his new car. He travelled a long way to
get it. It must  have  been frustrating for him when  he couldnt pay using the chip and PIN
facility. But Ive seen  no evidence to suggest  this was an issue with Tescos system. Ive
therefore looked at what happened  next.
I have listened  to the relevant telephone recording. The advisor never mentioned  the mobile
app. There was a conversation  about a security  issue, and it was during  this part of the call
that the word  online  was used. However,  Mr R almost immediately turned the conversation
back to his PIN, and online wasnt mentioned  again. On balance, Im satisfied that the
reference to going online was with a view to sorting  out the security issue, and that Tesco
did not suggest that Mr R use the mobile app. Accordingly, I wouldnt have expected the
advisor to tell him that doing so would attract a charge, and/or that it would constitute a
money transfer.
A money  transfer occurred in this case when  Mr R moved money from his credit card
account to the account of the car showroom, using  his mobile phone app to complete  the
transaction. It simply meant that Mr Rs account  was debited, while  the car showroom
account was credited.  These types of payments usually attract a charge, whereas  using  a
credit card directly to make the payment wouldnt.
I have also checked  the customer journey screenshots. These are the pages that Mr R
would have gone through when making the mobile  app payment.  Ive seen that the following
notice is contained  within the screenshots:
Please remember that we may charge  a fee for money transfers so you may want to take
this into consideration  when  you choose  how much you want to transfer.
I believe that this notice should  have  been  enough to warn Mr R that he was about to make
a money transfer,  so it may attract additional  charges. It was his decision  to continue with
the transaction. I appreciate he may not have read the notice,  but I cant  hold Tesco
responsible for this. I think its both clear and sufficiently prominent.
Mr Rs credit card deal included a three month  interest-free  period  for money  transfers. Mr R
used a money transfer to buy the car, so this period  applies  to that transfer. He also has a 28
month interest-free  deal on new purchases, and this was unaffected. Here, the purchase of
the car was made using money  transfer,  rather than being a new purchase made with the
card itself. So Mr Rs deal remained the one he entered  into at the beginning.
For these reasons, I think Tesco has acted reasonably. So Im not minded to require  it to do
anything.
responses to my provisional  decision
Tesco didnt  add anything  further.
Mr R disagreed with my provisional  decision. In summary,  he said:
Tescos chip and PIN facility failed.  His card had cash machine that morning, but was 
then declined when  he tried to use it to make  the car purchase. 
Ref: DRN22741253Accordingly, he phoned Tesco, to get advice. It advised the solution was to go online. 
He wasnt advised he would lose his 0% interest  benefit by going online to make the 
payment. He feels this was woefully inadequate.
He followed Tescos  advice by using the mobile  app.  When choosing this option, 
there was no clarity of what any charges may be, or any loss of benefits may be. 
Tescos customer  services did not highlight to him that he should check  the T&Cs 
before going ahead. Further, there was no pop up box of the T&Cs when he used  the 
mobile app. Therefore,  he made  the payment in good faith, following the advice from 
Tescos customer  services. 
When he received a confirmation e-mail of payment,  there was no information or link 
to read the T&Cs. 
He believed he had followed  the correct procedure, and that his purchase had been 
made in accordance with the 0% interest benefit. 
Had he been told that by going online to make a purchase, this would be different to 
making a purchase with a chip and PIN, then he would have checked the T&Cs. 
Therefore, Im wrong to make findings  based on him not checking  them.  
He got the credit  card for the sole purpose of using its 0% interest  offer  not to make  
an online  purchase and invalidate  it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the situation  must  have been very frustrating for Mr R, and that it resulted  
in additional expense. But I do not think Tesco was responsible for this. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, which forms part of this decision, the advisor didnt refer to fees,  which 
Im satisfied was because the mobile app wasnt discussed. And the reference to online 
appears to have been about a security  issue.
Im also satisfied from the customer journey screenshots, that a warning would have 
appeared. Mr R may well not have noticed it, but I cant hold Tesco  responsible for this. Im 
satisfied it was sufficiently  prominent.  Further, it is Mr Rs responsibility to read warnings and 
T&Cs.
In respect of his confirmation e-mail not containing T&Cs, that wouldnt  have  made a 
difference, as by then hed made the transfer.
As regards  the chip and PIN facility, I cannot say why it didnt work. It may have been that 
Mr R entered the PIN incorrectly, or perhaps there was a fault. But in any event,  the machine 
doesnt belong  to Tesco. They are provided  to merchants  here, the car dealer  by a third 
party. They can then be used by the merchant to accept payments from the cards of many 
different finance  providers. So even  if there  was a fault, which  I cannot  be sure of, Tesco  
wasnt responsible  for it.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr R. But I consider it was his decision to 
proceed, which led to the charge and the loss of the card promotion. Im satisfied he should 
have been reasonably aware of the possibility of a charge, for the reasons given above.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision not to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN22741254Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2020.
Elspeth Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2274125