K822xComplaint
Mrs F is unhappy  with the response  of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance), following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the CCA).
Background 
Mrs F was contacted by a company that supplied and installed solar  panel systems. 
Following a sales meeting, Mrs F agreed  to enter into a contract with the installer for it to 
supply and install a solar panel  system. To pay for this, Mrs F also agreed to enter into a 10 
year fixed  sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner Finance (BPF).
Mrs F made a claim under section 75 of the CCA via her representative. The representative 
said that the installer had told Mrs F that the solar panels would be self-funded and that the 
monthly loan repayments would  be more  than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income. But 
that hadnt happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments had been  much higher than the 
income.
In its final response letter,  BPF said that it didnt think the benefits of the solar panels had 
been misrepresented  to Mrs F. Unhappy with this response,  Mrs F referred  her complaint to 
our service.
Following our involvement, BPF made  an offer to settle Mrs Fs complaint. BPF said that it 
had calculated the potential savings and income to Mrs F over the term of the loan. It said it 
would restructure the loan so that Mrs F would  pay no more than this over the 10 year loan 
term. It also offered to pay Mrs F £100 for the trouble and upset caused. One of our 
investigators wrote to Mrs F and explained that they felt the offer put forward  by BPF was 
fair.
Mrs F, via her representative, didnt confirm  whether  she accepted  the offer from BPF, so the 
case has been passed to me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F says that she was cold-called  and during a subsequent sales meeting told that the 
solar panel  system would be entirely self-financing. BPF have accepted  that the benefits of 
the solar panel  system were misrepresented to Mrs F and as a result this decision will deal 
with what I consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
Ive considered whether it would be reasonable to put Mrs F back  in the position she would 
have been in if thered been no misrepresentation. However, here I dont think it would be 
fair or proportionate to require the removal of the solar panel  system from her home. Rather, 
I think the fair outcome here is to put Mrs F in a position where  the panels are cost neutral 
Ref: DRN26126132over the original term of the loan, meaning that Mrs F isnt disadvantaged  by the 
misrepresentation. By allowing  Mrs F to keep the panels, Im satisfied that she will likely 
benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the loan has 
finished).
Ive carefully considered  the methodology BPF has submitted to this service to calculate the 
total benefits of the solar panel  system.  This methodology is based on the actual  
performance and estimated future  performance of Mrs Fs solar panel  system.
When calculating the estimated future  benefits  of Mrs Fs solar  panel system, BPF has set 
out that it will use a number of assumptions. These include the self-consumption rate, 
electricity price inflation, the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price  index (RPI). Im 
of the view that these  appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an 
example, the actual  average RPI for the last four years doesnt  seem to be far from the 
assumed figure. In summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions that have been  used  by BPF 
provide a fair and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
By making  the solar panel system  cost neutral, or self-funding, Mrs F monthly payments will 
reduce. This means that she would have previously been paying more  each month  than she 
should have done. As Mrs F would have been deprived of any monthly overpayment, I would 
expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date an overpayment  was made to the 
date of settlement.  BPF has given Mrs F four options as to how shed like any overpayments 
and associated interest to be used:
1.the overpayments are used to reduce  any outstanding  balance  of the loan and Mrs F 
continues to pay her current monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early,
2.the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and Mrs F 
pays a new, lower  monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
3.the overpayments are returned  to Mrs F and she continues to pay her current 
monthly loan payment  resulting in her loan finishing early; or,
4.the overpayments are returned  to Mrs F and she pays  a new, lower  monthly  loan 
payment until the end of the loan term.
If Mrs F accepts my decision,  she should indicate  on the acceptance  form which of the 
above four options she would like to accept.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information  available at the time that Mrs F first 
contacted BPF that means her claim should have  been upheld. The fact that this did not 
happen undoubtedly caused  her trouble  and upset and consequently  Ill make an award of 
£100 to cover this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld.  In full and final settlement of it, I 
require Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  to:
(a)allow Mrs F to keep  the solar panel  system,
(b)estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr F from the panels over the 10 year 
loan of the term and rework it so she pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mrs Fs electricity bills and FIT statements  to do this,
Ref: DRN26126133(c)add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date the overpayment 
was made until the date of settlement,
(d)allow Mrs F to decide how shed like her overpayments and associated interest to be 
used, using the four potions  described  above; and,
(e)pay Mrs F £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mrs F how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs F a certificate showing this, if she asks for one, so she can claim  the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2021.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2612613