K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  about Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds  (LV) 
decision to decline their fire claim and cancel  their commercial insurance  policy  for 
misrepresentation.
background
In 2009 Mr and Mrs E took out a commercial  insurance policy for a hotel they owned. In 
2013 they transferred the policy to LV. A few years  later, there  was a fire at the hotel, so they 
made a claim under  the policy.  LV accepted there  was valid claim. But its investigations 
revealed Mr E had been the director of a company  that was liquidated in 2009 (and 
dissolved in March 2012),  something it hadnt  been  told about when it offered the policy. 
LV declined the claim, cancelled the policy from the start and refunded the premiums. It said 
Mr and Mrs E shouldve  told it about  the liquidation when they first took out the policy  and at 
subsequent renewals, and that if they had, it wouldnt  have  offered the policy.  
Mr and Mrs E complained to LV about its decision to decline  the claim and cancel the policy.  
They said that if theyd  been asked whether theyd been directors  of a company that had 
gone into liquidation, theyd have told their broker. They said theyd given verbal  instructions 
to their broker, had never signed any forms and had put the policy  documents  straight  into 
the filing cabinet when they received  them.  They also argued the claim was completely 
unrelated to their historic  financial difficulties, and that the question in the statement of fact 
couldnt assist  to assess or reduce  the risk of a fire happening  at the hotel. 
LV maintained its position and so Mr and Mrs E complained to this service.  They  explained 
that when they took out the policy in 2009,  they were distracted and worried about  the 
liquidation, and didnt think theyd need  to disclose it. They explained they declared a flood 
claim from 2009 and that their failure to disclose the liquidation had been a genuine mistake.  
They also stated they told the broker about  the liquidation in October  2013  and he said it 
wasnt relevant as it was so long ago. They said they believed  LV would have offered the 
policy on different terms if it had known about the liquidation, and that the circumstances of 
the misrepresentation werent materially relevant to the circumstances of the claim. They 
explained their financial circumstances had been sound for many years before they took out 
the policy, and they now have excellent  credit ratings and no debts.
LV explained  its the brokers responsibility to ask Mr and Mrs E a range of questions,  and 
that at each renewal, Mr and Mrs E were  sent policy documentation to check  through.  It said 
it uses the information provided to it to determine  whether the risk is acceptable, with its 
underwriting criteria telling it to decline a risk if a director has been  declared bankrupt or 
insolvent either as private individuals or in connection with any business. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She noted the statement of fact 
contained the statement "neither I or any directors or partners in the business have ever 
been declared bankrupt or insolvent  either as private individuals  or in connection with any 
business" in response to which "none" was recorded. She was satisfied this was a clear 
question and that as the answer was incorrect, there  had been  a misrepresentation. She 
was also satisfied that if LV had known about the liquidation, it wouldnt have provided cover 
and therefore  LVs decision to decline the claim was fair.
Ref: DRN26717982Mr and Mrs E have  asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  They  
maintain the misrepresentation was innocent,  that it wasnt relevant to the claim and that it 
was the result of poor administration and failings  by the broker,  who had known about the 
insolvency and who had failed to pass the information to LV. They further  maintain LV would 
have offered the policy, potentially on different terms, if it had known about the liquidation. 
Theyve also argued that, because the policy renewed in 2016,  the misrepresentation is 
covered by the Insurance Act 2015. They argue they did give a fair presentation of the risk 
and that LV accepts the misrepresentation was innocent. They  believe section 11 of the 
Insurance Act (which deals with terms not relevant to the actual loss), applies,  arguing  the 
fire claim  has no relationship to the liquidation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator, for broadly the same  reasons.
Mr and Mrs E have  made a number  of comments relating to the broker, but as the broker  
isnt a party to this complaint, I cant consider his involvement, except in so far as its 
relevant to the background of the complaint.  If Mr and Mrs E think  their broker has treated  
them unfairly theyll need to complain separately  to the broker.
Because this complaint relates  to a commercial  insurance contact and the policy was taken 
out in 2013in 2013, the Marine Insurance Act 1906 applies. But I accept that, as the policy 
last renewed in September 2016,  the Insurance Act applies after that point. 
The Marine  Insurance Act placed a duty of utmost good faith on the parties, requiring the 
insured to disclose  every  circumstance  they knew, or should have known, which would  
influence an insurer in deciding  whether to underwrite  a risk or what premium to charge. The 
Insurance Act 2015  says that before a contract of insurance is entered  into, the insured must 
make to the insurer a fair presentation of the risk, which means: (a) disclosure of every 
material circumstance which the insured  knows or ought to know, or (b) failing that, 
disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a prudent  insurer on notice 
that it needs to make  further enquiries  for the purpose of revealing those material  
circumstances. 
Having considered the circumstances, I consider that when Mr and Mrs E took out the policy 
in 2013 and at subsequent renewals, they should have known the liquidation  would influence  
LV in deciding whether to offer the policy. As for the 2016 renewal, I consider that in failing to 
tell LV about  the liquidation,  they failed to make a fair presentation of the risk. Therefore,  Im 
satisfied there was a misrepresentation  when  Mr and Mrs E first took out the policy  and at 
each renewal.
Ive considered the comments Mr and Mrs E have made about the wording of the Insurance 
Act, but this doesnt make a difference to the outcome of the complaint. The fact LV accepts 
the misrepresentation was careless is relevant to its decision to refund the premiums,  and it 
doesnt alter the fact they failed to make a fair presentation  of the risk in 2016. Further, 
section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015  only applies if a loss occurs and a particular term 
hasnt been complied with in circumstances  where  the insured has made  a fair presentation 
of the risk. And as Ive found they didnt  make a fair presentation of the risk, the section 
wont apply.
Ref: DRN26717983For its decision to cancel  the policy from the start to be fair, I need  to be satisfied the fact of 
the liquidation would have  made a difference to the terms LV would have offered, or that it 
wouldnt have offered cover at all. Mr and Mrs E have argued the liquidation wasnt  material  
to the claim or the risk of a fire and so it would have offered the policy, perhaps on different 
terms. But LVs provided its underwriting acceptance criteria and an excerpt from its training 
material which shows it doesnt provide cover for companies where  a directors been  
declared bankrupt or insolvent. Its explained it uses the information it asks for to assess risk 
and, based on its underwriting criteria, it wouldnt have offered the policy. 
Mr and Mrs E want LV to show  its never offered a policy to someone  whos  been declared  
bankrupt, but it doesnt need  to do that. It accepts  there are circumstances where it might 
offer policies to people  who have  been directors of liquidated companies, but its explained  
these circumstances  are extremely limited and based on the proximity  of time since  the 
liquidation, the vast sum involved in the liquidation and the risk being  presented  by being in 
the same  trade as a previously failed, it wouldnt  have offered the policy. Im satisfied thats 
reasonable and that, based on the evidence its produced, I think its most likely LV wouldnt  
have offered the policy if it had known about the liquidation.
Mr and Mrs E have  explained they didnt tell the broker about  the liquidation when they first 
took out a policy because  of the stress theyd been under. But they didnt  take the policy  out 
with LV until 2013 and I consider they had an opportunity  to provide the correct information 
at that point and at each renewal thereafter. Im also satisfied  they received the policy 
documents and that the relevant statement in the statement of fact document is clear.  
Mr and Mrs E have  said they told their broker about the liquidation in 2013 and that he failed 
to pass the information to LV. Its a matter for Mr and Mrs E whether they issue  a separate 
complaint against  their broker, but I consider that if they did tell the broker and the 
information wasnt passed to LV, they had an opportunity to put it right when they were sent 
the statement  of fact. I think they were careless in failing to read the documents  when they 
switched to LV, and at subsequent renewals and therefore LVs decision to cancel the policy  
and decline  the claim,  (but return the premiums)  is fair. 
I understand Mr and Mrs E will be disappointed but, having considered  all the available  
information, including the comments said on their behalves by their representative and 
others, Im satisfied LVs decision to cancel the policy  from the start and decline the claim 
was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN26717984my final decision
I understand Mr and Mrs E will be disappointed, but for the reasons outlined above I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 December  2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2671798