K821x#15Complaint
Mrs A complains she was misled into putting  her name on a conditional  sale agreement with 
Vauxhall Finance  plc (trading as GM Finance)  (Vauxhall) to fund the acquisition  of a car for 
her son, Mr A. There  is also a dispute  over who, if anyone, should pay monies  owing as a 
result of the agreement.
Background
The background to this complaint, and my initial findings, can be found in my provisional  
decision which is attached  to and forms a part of this final decision. 
However, in brief summary,  I thought on balance that Mrs A had been misled into signing the 
conditional sale agreement as a joint applicant with Mr A, and she should not be held liable 
for monies  owing as a result of it. I found  that, in principle, Mr A should pay for any use he 
had of the car, and for any loss of value of the car attributable to his failure to look after it 
while it was in his possession. I noted  that part of the monthly  repayments  towards  the 
agreement were not simply for Mr As use of the car, but were to go towards his ultimate 
purchase of it. The car had now been repossessed so there was no chance of this occurring,  
and this should be recognised when deciding a fair resolution.
I said I was minded, having considered  a range  of evidence, to direct  Vauxhall to reduce 
Mr As outstanding balance to the total of the monthly payments he contractually owed from 
the start of the agreement until the date the car was repossessed,  minus  any repayments  
that had been made.  I said I was also minded to direct Vauxhall to attempt to agree an 
affordable repayment  plan with Mr A, and remove negative information from his credit  file 
until he had finished  repaying the remaining balance,  at which point  it should  remove the 
agreement from his credit file completely.
Mrs A didnt respond to my provisional  decision.  Both Vauxhall  and Mr A responded to say 
they disagreed.  Vauxhall said it didnt think it was right to remove  negative information  from 
Mr As credit  file. It said it had an obligation to record the conduct of the account accurately  
and to remove negative  information went against this obligation.  Vauxhall  suggested  it was 
impossible to record the account without negative information in any event.
Ref: DRN23419982Mr A made a number  of points which would be best summarised as follows:
Both he and Mrs A had been misled by the dealership into entering the agreement.  
As a teenager  he hadnt known that what he was being told by the salesman was 
untrue.
Vauxhall had refused  to take the car back when asked.  It wasnt fair therefore that he 
should pay for his use of it. It had also refused to take payments from him.
He and Mrs A had suffered greatly  as a result of the mis-sale of the agreement  and 
Vauxhall should be paying  them compensation, rather  than the other way around.
Due to the problems the mis-sale had caused  between him and Mrs A, he had been  
living in the car, which was how it had come to travel such a high mileage.
The case  has now been returned to me to consider the further points both parties have  
made.
My findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings are 
unchanged from my provisional  decision and I will explain why.
Mr A has put forward a number of further points along with supporting detail, outlining why 
he should not be liable for any payments to Vauxhall. Having reflected on them  I feel most of 
them are essentially the same points Mr A has made previously, and which  Ive already 
considered.
I acknowledged in my provisional  decision  that the conditional sale agreement should not 
have gone ahead. It follows  that Mr A should also not have had the car. However, ultimately  
the agreement  did go ahead and Mr A had the use of a brand new car for some time,  which  
he would  not have had otherwise. As I set out in the provisional decision, my starting  point is 
that someone who has had use of a car should  pay for that use, and in my view that central  
principle is not changed  by whether or not that person was misled into taking on a credit 
agreement to fund their purchase. 
Ive considered Mr As other arguments.  Its not apparent to me how living in a car would  
necessarily cause its mileage to increase, so I dont find this to be a persuasive  point. Ive 
also read through Vauxhalls notes of contact it has had with Mr A and I cant see any 
reference to him offering to give the car back.  
Ref: DRN23419983It looks likely, based on the same notes, that at some point Vauxhall told Mr A it wouldnt 
take payments  from him while a complaint was outstanding, for legal reasons. I dont think 
this was correct information,  as in my view there  shouldnt have been anything  to stop 
Vauxhall from taking payments during  an ongoing  complaint, if Mr A was willing  and able to 
make them. And in fact, the account  notes  show multiple attempts to take direct  debits from 
Mr As bank  account (all of which bounced) throughout  2018  and early 2019, meaning 
Vauxhall was attempting to take payments from him while the complaint was ongoing. Its 
not clear to me whether  Mr A did in fact call up to try to make additional payments, as the 
notes dont appear to show him doing  this. Its additionally unclear  whether Mr A could have 
afforded to make  the repayments, given his direct  debits  were returned unpaid,  and earlier  
statements hed made about not having a job. So, while it seems probable Vauxhall gave 
incorrect information about whether or not it could accept payments from Mr A, I think its 
unlikely the outcome for the agreement  with the car being repossessed  would have been 
any different.
When deciding provisionally how much money it would  be fair for Vauxhall to hold Mr A 
liable for, I took into account the fact the agreement should not have gone ahead, and that 
the repossession of the car meant  Mr A had lost the opportunity to own it. I also considered, 
on the other hand, the fact that Mr A appeared not to have taken good care of the car, 
meaning that it was worth  less than it should have been when it was repossessed. As I said 
in the provisional  decision, redress is not an exact science, but taking into account all of the 
circumstances of the case I remain of the view that Mr As liability should  extend only to the 
contractual payments he would have needed  to pay for the months the car was in his 
possession.
Vauxhall has said it wouldnt  be right to remove negative information  from Mr As credit file 
relating to the agreement.  It has referenced  its obligation  to record  the conduct of the 
account accurately.  While I understand Vauxhalls  point  of view, the agreement should  not 
have existed in the first place and to record negative information about it therefore  seems to 
be unfairly punitive to Mr A. In my view a fair compromise is to record on the credit  file the 
fact that a balance  remains  on the account until it is repaid,  at which  point the account 
should be removed  from the credit  file. Vauxhall  has said its not possible to record  the 
account in this way. In my experience, it is possible to do this. However, if what Vauxhall 
says is correct and it is impossible to record the outstanding balance  without negative 
information (e.g. arrears  or default), then it will have to remove the account from the credit 
file completely. 
Ref: DRN23419984My final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my attached provisional decision, I uphold Mrs A 
and Mr As complaint  in part and make the following directions to Vauxhall Finance plc.:
Ensure Mrs A is treated as though  she was never a party  to the credit  agreement.
Reduce Mr As outstanding balance to the total of the monthly  payments he 
contractually owed  from the start of the agreement until the date the car was 
repossessed, minus any repayments  that have been  made.  If there are any partial 
months then these should be dealt with on a pro-rata basis.
Attempt to arrange an affordable repayment  plan with Mr A for the remaining 
balance.
Remove any negative  information about the credit agreement  from Mr As credit  file, 
and remove the agreement entirely  once  the balance calculated  above has been  
repaid. If it is impossible to remove negative  information and leave the agreement on 
Mr As credit file until the balance  has been repaid, then the agreement should 
instead be removed  from the credit  file entirely.
If Vauxhall Finance  plc has sold the debt to a third party then it must work with that same  
third party to achieve the results outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 July 2020.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN23419985COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mrs A complains that she was misled into putting her name on a conditional sale agreement  with 
Vauxhall Finance plc (Vauxhall).  There is also a dispute over who, if anyone, should pay monies  
owing as a result of the agreement.
Background
Mrs A and Mr A (her son) were named as joint applicants  on a conditional sale agreement  with 
Vauxhall dated 14 March 2018.
The agreement was set up to fund the acquisition  of a new car for Mr A, costing £21,050 (reduced to 
£18,550 due to a contribution from the manufacturer). No deposit was paid by Mrs A or Mr A, but they 
were expected to make an initial repayment of £488.93 followed by 58 repayments of £339.93 and a 
final repayment  of £488.93,  at which point they would own the car. The repayments were  set up to go 
from Mr As bank account and the invoice for the sale of the car was in Mr As name only.  The 
conditional sale agreement  was signed at a car dealership, which  acted  as the credit broker.
The first repayment from Mr As account bounced, so Vauxhall tried to contact first him and then Mrs 
A. When Vauxhall contacted Mrs A she said she hadnt known she would  be liable for the repayments 
and that she had been  lied to. She said she wouldnt make any repayments but Vauxhall  continued to 
pursue her for these.  As I understand it, no payment has ever been made on the account.
Shortly after being contacted  by Vauxhall,  Mrs A made a complaint to the dealership. She said that 
representatives of the dealership had told her that her name was only needed for a child/parent 
scheme and that although  her details were needed for a credit check, she wasnt responsible for any 
payments. The dealership rejected the complaint, saying essentially that it had made  everything clear  
to Mrs A. Mrs A also complained to Vauxhall, which responded that it believed she had signed  the 
agreement and that it had been her responsibility to make sure she understood what  she was signing.
Mrs A was unhappy  with the response she received to her complaint,  so she asked this service to 
review it. One of our investigators looked into the case, and concluded Mrs A had most likely not been 
properly informed of her liabilities before signing the agreement, and it had been misrepresented to 
her. She reasoned  that Mrs As testimony and actions had been consistent  from the point she was 
first contacted by Vauxhall requesting payment,  and that there were various pieces of evidence  from 
around the time of the sale which  supported her account  of events. These included incorrect 
information on the paperwork,  the fact the repayments didnt seem affordable for her (meaning shed 
have been unlikely to agree  to make them), and the sequence in which events took place.
Our investigator noted that Vauxhall had confirmed it would not have lent to Mr A on his own, so she 
recommended that the agreement should be cancelled,  the car collected by Vauxhall and any 
adverse information removed from Mrs A and Mr As credit files. But because  Mr A had used the car 
for eight months,  he should  still have to pay for eight months of usage,  minus  interest.
Vauxhall said it agreed Mrs A was probably  misled, but didnt think Mr A should  have adverse 
information removed  from his credit file, because hed known what he was signing up for. It said it 
wouldnt hold Mrs A responsible  for the repayments  but it intended to terminate the agreement, 
repossess the car and set up a repayment plan with Mr A for the arrears and any shortfall  after the car 
was repossessed and sold. Mrs A agreed to this. The car was repossessed some  time later (it seems 
Mr A initially prevented this from happening)  and sold at auction for £8,600.  This left Mr A with more 
than £12,000 to repay.
Ref: DRN23419986Mr A, who had not been actively involved in the complaint  up to that point, got in contact  with us to 
say that he didnt understand why he was being  held liable for what he described as the full costs  
when Mrs A had been misled into the agreement and it could never  have gone ahead without her. He 
said he had been young and the sale had been forced on him by the dealership, and Vauxhall had 
refused to accept repayment from him while the complaint had been ongoing.
Our investigator considered this and repeated to Vauxhall her previous recommendation that it only 
hold Mr A responsible for his use of the vehicle. She noted that things would never have got into such 
a bad position  had things been done as they should  have  been at the point of sale. Vauxhall said it 
disagreed. It said the car had been in an appalling state when repossessed,  with cigarette burns  and 
mud on the inside, and various types of damage on the outside. It added  that it didnt believe what Mr 
A had said about trying to make repayments. After considering this, our investigator said she 
accepted Mr A should pay for any loss of value  caused by the damage to the car. However Vauxhall  
still disagreed.
The case has now been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide provisionally whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before going further, Ill set out the issues which are no longer in dispute,  because  I dont propose to 
make detailed  findings on these. Firstly, its not disputed that Mrs A was misled into signing the 
conditional sale agreement  and she should therefore be treated as though she had never  been a 
party to it. Having reviewed  the available evidence  myself, Im also satisfied on balance  that Mrs A 
was misled. Secondly, its not in dispute that the agreement wouldnt have gone ahead with Mr A as a 
sole applicant, because Mr A didnt meet  Vauxhalls  criteria.
The main issue for me to determine then, is to what extent Mr A should be held responsible for the 
outstanding balance. My starting point is that I think it is generally fair that someone should pay for a 
car they have  been able to use. So Mr A should  certainly have to pay something,  even if the car and 
the conditional sale agreement were not sold in a fair way.
In a scenario like this I would  normally conclude  that Mr A should pay the monthly payments on the 
agreement which correspond with the months he had the car before it was repossessed. This is 
because in most cases the monthly payments roughly  equate to a payment for renting the car for a 
month (plus interest), and the debtor has the option  to buy the car at the end of the agreement  by 
paying a balloon payment,  which is generally set at the expected value of the car at that point in 
time. 
The agreement Mr A entered though, was quite different. It was structured so that he would make 
essentially equal repayments throughout (except for the first and last repayments,  which were  slightly 
higher), so his expected repayments  were  not only covering his usage but were  also going towards  
his ultimate purchase  of the vehicle.  There  is no chance now for him to own the vehicle,  because it 
has been repossessed and sold at auction, so Im not convinced it would be fair to expect him to pay 
the proportion of the repayments  which would have gone towards  buying the car, had the agreement  
continued to run.
On the other hand, if Mr As actions (or his failures  to act) have caused the car to lose more value 
than it otherwise would have through depreciation caused by normal  aging and wear  and tear, while it 
was in his possession, then I think its fair that he should pay more to reflect  that loss in value. After 
all, while the car was in his care Mr A had a responsibility  to look after it because  it did not belong to 
him. So if, for example, Mr A caused the car to be damaged more  than would reasonably be expected 
in terms of wear and tear for a vehicle of its age, or had driven a much larger number of miles than 
average, then I think its fair that he pays something for the loss of value caused by this. 
Ref: DRN23419987Ive seen the report  from the auction house, dated 29 January 2019,  and this indicates the car had 
covered more than 26,000 miles since it had been collected  by Mr A in March  2018.  According  to 
statistics available from the Department  of Transport, the average annual  mileage  in the UK in 2018 
was 7,600 miles, and I think its fair to say Mr A travelled  far in excess of this. The report also shows 
various dents,  scratches and scuffs to the paintwork and wheels, and burns on the seats. I agree with 
Vauxhall that when the car was repossessed it was in a very poor condition  considering it was only 
ten months old. 
Ive thought about the fact the poor condition  and high mileage of the car will have affected the price 
Vauxhall received for it at auction, and balanced  this against the fact that the agreement should  never 
have gone ahead had Vauxhall or its agents conducted the sale correctly. Ive also taken  into account 
the fact that the repayments  were effectively intended in part to represent  the purchase of the vehicle 
in instalments (which  will not go ahead) as well as being a charge for monthly use. In doing  so, Ive 
examined trade price  guides  and considered, taking into account depreciation, how much of Mr As 
monthly payments were  likely to have formed a part of the purchase  price.  In light of the above,  and 
bearing in mind that redress is not an exact science, I think it would be fair if Mr A simply  pays  the 
contractual payments  he owed for the months that he had the car in his possession,  not including  any 
additional charges for arrears. Mr A and Vauxhall will need to agree  on a suitable  plan to repay  the 
money he still owes.
In terms of Mr As credit file, I think it would be fair for the agreement to be recorded  on his credit file, 
albeit without negative information, until he has repaid  what  he has owed. It should be removed after 
this point (as the agreement should never have  existed).
My provisional decision
Im currently  minded to uphold  Mrs A and Mr As complaint and make the following directions.  As has 
already been agreed, Vauxhall Finance plc must  not treat Mrs A as though she was ever a party to 
the credit agreement. For Mr A, it must do the following:
Reduce his outstanding balance to the total of the monthly  payments he contractually owed 
from the start of the agreement until the date the car was repossessed,  minus  any 
repayments that have been  made. If there are any partial months  then these should  be dealt 
with on a pro-rata basis.
Attempt to arrange  an affordable repayment plan with Mr A for the remaining balance.
Remove any negative information about the credit agreement from Mr As credit file, and 
remove the agreement entirely once  the balance calculated above has been repaid.
I now invite  Mrs A, Mr A and Vauxhall  Finance plc to submit any further comments, evidence or 
arguments they would like me to consider, by 21 May 2020. After  that date I will consider the 
complaint again along with anything I receive  from any of the parties involved.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2341998