K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Cia Insurance Ltd (Cia) didnt give them enough information 
about the rebuilding cost of their property, which has meant  a recent  claim has only been  
partly met.
background
Cia is an insurance broker. That means  it sells insurance policies  rather  than actually 
underwriting the policies it sells. Mr and Mrs F have been insuring  several tenanted 
properties through Cia for more than ten years. 
In 2018 they made a claim when one of the properties was damaged and were  disappointed 
to find out that the property was substantially under insured  so they only received 41% of 
the cost of repairs. Thats because the insurance was based  on a rebuild figure of about  
£53,000, when  in fact this should have been about  £125,000.
Mr and Mrs F complained to Cia, which said it had taken the value provided by Mr and Mrs F 
when they first bought the insurance, and had index-linked  this in later renewals (which  
means it increased over the years in line with general price increases). Cia said it relied  on 
Mr and Mrs F providing an accurate  figure as it wasnt an expert on property rebuilding costs 
 and it also made it clear  in the renewal documentation that this was an important number 
that Mr and Mrs F should check.  
Mr and Mrs F werent happy about that and brought  their complaint to us. Our investigator 
thought Cia had done enough  to draw Mr and Mrs Fs attention to the need for them  to check  
the rebuild value, and how they might do that.
Mr and Mrs F dont  agree,  so Ive been asked to decide this complaint. In particular they say 
Cia should have been telling them about  the need  to check  the re-build value each time they 
discussed renewing the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about whether Mr and Mrs F were given enough information about 
adequately insuring their property. There  seems to be some confusion  about whether Cia 
recommended a particular policy to Mr and Mrs F. I think, from the paperwork Ive seen,  it 
did recommend this policy. That means it had to check that it met Mr and Mrs Fs needs.  But 
this complaint isnt about the policy itself  its about  the information Mr and Mrs F provided  
about the cost to rebuild the house.
I note that Mr and Mrs F insure a number of properties. They may not be experienced at 
insurance or valuation matters. But I do take account of the fact that letting properties  is 
something they have  done for a long time, so Id expect them to know  about insuring them  
adequately. Mr and Mrs F have had this particular property insured through the same  broker  
for many years, but has not sought  to change the rebuild value for at least ten years.
Mr and Mrs F say Cia didnt tell them  how important  getting the rebuild figure  right was  and 
never explained how they might check the rebuild  value for themselves. Cia says it relied on 
Ref: DRN22497622what Mr and Mrs F said about this when they first bought the policy, as it isnt expert  in 
rebuilding values. I think thats a fair thing  to do. Building costs vary substantially around  the 
country and I wouldnt expect Cia to know whether a particular figure was appropriate. It is, 
however, important that it tells Mr and Mrs F to check any information  theyve provided and 
how, if thats appropriate.
I think it was important for Cia to draw Mr and Mrs Fs attention  to the significance  of getting 
this figure  right. I dont think that necessarily means  it has to be in a phone  call, if there are 
other ways  of doing this. Cia it says it made  it clear  in all the renewals it sent out over the 
years how Mr and Mrs F could check the building sum insured for themselves.
I have looked  at the renewal documents from 2013-2014 onwards. Each  year Cia sent 
documents that included a section titled How we have  met your requirements. Almost  
immediately below that is an Important Notification  contained within  a box, which I think  
draws attention to the information  it contains.  The section is all about how important it is to 
ensure the building  is adequately insured  and how to check  this if Mr and Mrs F are 
unsure. It also warns that if the property is underinsured any claim might only be paid out on 
a pro-rata basis. The section goes on to suggest Mr and Mrs F refer to the Building  Cost 
Information Service (BCIS) website  (or a recent survey) to check the rebuild value.
I think that Cia did enough to alert Mr and Mrs F to the need  to get this figure right.
I think its reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs F to read these documents  when they got them, 
and query  any figures they thought might need amending.  Mr F told our investigator he didnt 
read the renewal  documents  but I cant hold Cia responsible for that. 
I appreciate this wont be what Mr and Mrs F want to hear, but taking everything into 
consideration I dont  think  Cia has done  much  wrong.
Mr F recently mentioned  a later conversation he had with Cia about a different policy.  I 
havent taken  that into account,  as this decision is only about this particular  complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 June 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2249762