K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold by 
Anglian Windows Ltd (Anglian) with a loan. Mrs J is unhappy with the amount of 
compensation offered.
background
Mrs J took out a loan to buy a new front door in 2005 and at the same time took out a PPI 
policy to protect her repayments. Mrs J has said that she ended up buying the door on credit  
after being  persuaded  to do so by Anglians  salesman. Her complaint is that this was a hard 
sell and she would have  preferred to buy the door without  taking out the PPI. 
She complained to Anglian about the sale of the policy. Anglian said the PPI policy  wasnt  
mis-sold.
It said Mrs J received a discount of £400  because she took out the policy  as part of a gold 
promotion. If Mrs J didnt  take out the policy, she wouldnt have received the discount. 
The cost of the policy was £401.12.  So, although Anglian didnt agree Mrs Js policy  was 
mis-sold, it offered to refund the extra it said she paid due to PPI  £1.12 with interest.
Mrs J didnt think this was fair way to resolve  the complaint, so it was passed to me for a 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision in February  2019 setting out my initial thoughts  on the 
complaint and inviting both Anglian and Mrs J to let me have anything  else theyd like me to 
think about.
I explained that I thought  Mrs J had provided very clear and detailed  memories of what 
happened. In short, she spoke with Anglian  about  getting a new front door and one if its 
salesmen came to her home  to discuss the various options.
Mrs J said shed planned on buying  the door in cash, but felt pressured  into buying it on 
credit instead. She remembers that she was offered a discount for doing  that, but she didnt  
realise she was sold a PPI policy at the same time.
Anglian wasnt able to say what happened as the salesman  had left the business.  But it did 
provide the documents  available  from the point of sale. So using those documents, and 
Mrs Js recollections,  I was able to say what I thought happened.
I saw that Anglian  offered a discount to its customers if they signed up to the gold 
promotion. And Mrs J signed a form called YOUR  PERSONAL ILLUSTRATION that set out 
what the gold promotion was in her case. The cash price for the door was £3,000, but the 
gold promotion  subsidy was £400.  But that was only available if she bought  the door on 
credit over at least 120 months along  with PPI. If the credit and PPI werent taken, the full 
price, i.e. £3,000,  was payable. 
Having looked  at the form I didnt think it was made clear to Mrs J that the PPI was added  to 
the loan and the total cost of everything, before interest was added, was actually £3,001.12. 
This was important as the cost of PPI was £401.12, but that increased to £899.99 with 
Ref: DRN25514482interest if the loan ran to term. So rather than making a saving of £400,  she was actually 
paying £1.12 more initially. And this could be a lot more with interest.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), set out examples of how PPI could 
be mis-sold by businesses in its handbook at DISP  App 3.6.2. I thought Anglians sale to 
Mrs J was flawed for some of the reasons the FCA set out. For example, I couldnt  see that 
Mrs J was told that the PPI only covered her for five years but the loan was set up to run for 
ten years  (DISP App 3.6.2(12)(b)). 
And Anglian  had to give Mrs J information  that was clear, fair and not misleading about the 
policy. But I didnt think it did. Under  the terms of the PPI policy,  if Mrs J paid off her loan 
early, as she did, her policy remained in force and turned into an income  protection  policy. 
She could  have cancelled her policy  and received a partial refund, but it wouldnt have been 
a pro-rata refund. So she wouldnt  have got back enough to pay for what  she still owed for 
PPI. I couldnt see that Anglian ever told Mrs J she could have received a refund or the 
terms of the refund. So I thought that was a failing  in the way the PPI was sold (DISP App 
3.6.2(12)(c)). 
I then considered what, if anything, Anglian needed to do to put right the failings. I didnt 
think the flaws  in the way PPI was sold meant she wouldnt  have bought  the door using  
credit. But I also didnt think Anglians  offer was the right outcome in this case.
Anglians offer put Mrs J in the position  shed have been in if she had bought the door on 
credit at the full cash price, but without taking  PPI. But the difference  in cost of taking the 
loan with and without PPI was only £1.12.  And Mrs J was eligible for at least some  of the 
cover PPI gave her so I thought if it was properly explained, she would have borrowed the 
extra £1.12  to take the gold promotion and the protection  PPI gave her.
But I did think Anglian needed to do something  to put right the failings in the way PPI was 
sold. I thought  if it had been  made clear to Mrs J that she had PPI and how it worked, she 
would have cancelled  it when she paid off her loan. I couldnt see that she had any other 
liabilities or any need for a standalone  income protection  plan.  And I thought the reason  PPI 
wasnt cancelled was a direct result of the way Anglian sold her the policy.
So I thought  Anglian needed to work out what refund Mrs J would have  got if PPI had been  
cancelled when the loan was repaid. And I thought it needed  to add interest  to that amount 
for the time she was out of pocket. I thought that was a fair way of resolving Mrs Js 
complaint and puts right what went wrong in accordance with DISP App 3.8.
Anglian responded to my provisional  decision to say although it didnt agree with what Id 
said, it agreed to make  an offer to Mrs J in the way I suggested.
Mrs J agreed  with most of my provisional decision, but she didnt think she would have 
bought the door using credit and felt shed been  pressured into doing  so. 
Mrs J explained she planned  on buying  the front door using cash and provided a number of 
receipts showing shes paid for home improvements without credit in 2004. She said she 
saved up to be able to pay for works  herself, which shed  done again in 2005.  But before she 
was able to get different quotes  for a new door, she was approached by Anglian with a 
special offer and ended up taking  the loan.
Ref: DRN25514483my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  Mrs Js response  that she didnt actually want  to take out a loan at 
all, not just that PPI was mis-sold. But in this decision Ive looked at the reasons why I think  
PPI was mis-sold and what  Anglian  needed  to do to put things right. 
I dont think the failings in the way PPI was explained to Mrs J led to her take out the loan. In 
fact, as I said in my provisional  decision, I dont really think  it was made clear to Mrs J that 
the PPI was added to the loan itself,  which  was one of the failings in the way it was sold.  So 
although I acknowledge what Mrs J has said about not wanting to buy the door on credit, in 
this decision Ive focused on the sale of the PPI.
And for the same reasons I said in my provisional decision, I think PPI was mis-sold.  And I 
think Anglian needs to do something to put things right.
Anglian needs to work out what refund Mrs J would have got if PPI had been cancelled when 
the loan was repaid  for the avoidance of doubt the loan started on 15 February 2006 and 
ran until 17 March 2007. It should then pay that to Mrs J, along  with 8% per year simple 
interest from 17 March 2007 until the date she gets paid the compensation.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Js complaint against  Anglian  Windows Ltd and direct it to work  out and pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2551448