K821x#15complaint
Miss S and Mr S complain that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) declined a claim against  
their travel insurance policy.
 
background
Miss S and Mr S have a travel insurance  policy as a benefit of a Mr S credit card account. 
In February 2019,  Miss S was on a skiing trip and was injured  whilst  stationary on a 
toboggan when a child unknown to her collided into her back. Miss S was airlifted to hospital 
and treated there.
Miss S made a claim against  the policy. IPA declined the claim. It said that tobogganing isnt 
an activity thats covered  under the policy.
In summary,  Miss S and Mr S say that IPA has acted unfairly. They  say that theres been 
subjective interpretation of unclear or ambiguous  language  in the policy  and that sledging is 
a usual winter sport.  Mr S says that he specifically sought cover for Miss S as she goes 
skiing annually. Miss S and Mr S want IPA to deal with the claim. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. He said that the policy  terms were 
unclear in relation to what was defined  as a dangerous sport  or activity, which he didnt think  
was fair. The investigator said that it wasnt reasonable to consider  tobogganing  as an 
unusual winter sport. He said that IPA should  deal with the claim within  the terms of the 
policy and pay compensation of £100  in relation to distress and inconvenience.
IPA didnt agree with the investigator. It said:
Miss S was participating in tobogganing and whilst she was stationary at the time of 
the accident, it wouldnt have happened if Miss S hadnt been  in the vicinity of the 
activity.
It didnt agree that the policy wording is unclear.
If Miss S was unsure whether tobogganing was covered, the terms say that she 
should phone for confirmation.
Tobogganing isnt considered a usual holiday  activity and is an extremely  dangerous 
sport. 
The investigator didnt  change his view. He said that Miss S was participating  in a usual 
holiday winter sport and that tobogganing is an activity you can reasonably expect to be 
associated with winter  sports. 
The investigator didnt  think it was fair for IPA to rely on the exclusion, as it was ambiguous 
and open to interpretation.  He said that consumers and underwriters might take an entirely 
different view about whats dangerous. The investigator said that if Miss S and Mr S had 
reviewed the policy  before the activity, they would have concluded that cover  was in place  
they wouldnt have  been unsure about  that.  
Ref: DRN22652602As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious that Ive condensed what I dont  doubt was a very worrying time into a short  
narrative. That reflects our service  that, wherever possible, aims to be informal.  But Im 
satisfied that Ive captured the essence  of what happened and Miss S and Mr S concerns. 
Its clear and quite understandable that Miss S and Mr S have very strong feelings about  this 
matter. Theres a significant sum at stake. Theyve  provided detailed submissions to support 
the complaint.  Ive read through all this carefully  and taken it all into consideration when 
making my decision. However, I trust that neither Miss S nor Mr S will take as a discourtesy 
the fact that I focus on what I consider the central issue,  that is, whether IPA treated Miss S 
unfairly in declining her claim.  
the relevant policy  terms and conditions 
The starting point  is the policy.  The keyfacts  includes  the following:
KEY INFORMATION
(i) POLICY SUMMARY
 []
Sports
Worldwide Travel Insurance also includes cover for winter sports such as skiing and 
snowboarding (including off-piste with a guide), and for usual holiday sports  or activities  , 
such as fishing, horse riding and scuba diving (down  to 30 metres). 
KEY EXCLUSIONS & LIMITATIONS
[]
Sports or activities that may be considered dangerous.
Ref: DRN22652603The policy terms and conditions say:
WORLDWIDE  TRAVEL INSURANCE
[]
This section  1 details  the Card Travel Insurance benefits. [] The following conditions  apply  
to all claims under this Section:
[]
6) Usual Sports and Activities Information: all benefits apply when participating in usual 
holiday sports and activities, including winter sports. For example: canoeing, fishing, golf, 
horse riding,  mountain-biking, parascending,  scuba-diving down to 30 metres, skiing 
(including off-piste with a guide) and snowboarding (including off-piste with a guide),  tennis,  
water-skiing.
7) However,  certain sports and activities are excluded. If You are going  to take part in any 
sport or activity that could  be considered  dangerous or may fall outside usual holiday sports,  
please call [] in advance of undertaking any such activity on [] 
1.9 GENERAL EXLUSIONS TO CARD TRAVEL  INSURANCE
The following  exclusions  apply to all of this Section 1  Card Travel Insurance.
You will not be paid for claims directly  or indirectly as a result of:
[]
4) Participating in sports and activities which would not be considered  usual holiday sports.  
Please refer to sub-clause 6 of Section 1  Usual Sports and Activities Information.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that IPA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly  and it shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably. I dont think  that IPA acted 
fairly in declining the claim. Ill explain why:
It isnt clear from the policy documentation  that tobogganing is excluded under the 
policy. The policy gives examples of sports and activities that are included but invites 
the policyholder  to call in advance if they are going to take part in any sport  or 
activity that could be considered dangerous or may fall outside usual holiday 
sports.  There isnt a specific list of activities that are and arent covered.
I think that Miss S acted reasonably by considering tobogganing  to be a usual holiday 
sport or activity. Its a quintessential  winter activity  undertaken by people of all ages.  
IPA says that its an extremely dangerous sport but its offered no evidence  to 
support its assertion.  I dont think it would be reasonable for IPA to rely on the 
general exclusion Ive referred to above, as I dont think it would have been clear that 
tobogganing isnt a usual holiday sport. 
The central question  is whether  tobogganing  could be considered  a dangerous sport  
or activity such that Miss S was directed to call IPA in advance  of the activity. Whilst 
a good many sports or activities  could be considered dangerous, Ive seen  nothing  to 
indicate that tobogganing is significantly different  in terms of risk or danger than 
some of the examples of sports and activities that are covered under the policy.  I 
think its reasonable for a policyholder to conclude that tobogganing is no more  
dangerous than the activities given as examples of usual sports  or activities,  such  as 
guided, off-piste skiing  or snowboarding. So, if Miss S had read the policy  terms, I 
think it would be reasonable for her to conclude  that she didnt need  to call IPA in 
advance of tobogganing. 
Ref: DRN22652604Ive seen nothing  to indicate  that Miss S acted unreasonably whilst she was 
tobogganing. She says that after a days skiing, she spent half an hour on a simple  
wooden sledge,  which were being used  by both adults and children. She was 
stationary when a child collided with her from behind. 
IPA says that if Miss S had called  before  tobogganing, it would have told her that 
Tobogganing would not be covered. IPA hasnt  said that it would have offered 
Miss S cover  for tobogganing on payment  of an additional premium.  But I dont think  
that alters the outcome here, as the policy terms were  such  that Miss S could 
reasonably come  to the view that the policy offered cover  for tobogganing  without her 
having to phone in advance of the activity.  
Considering  everything, I think that IPA should deal Miss S claim under the 
remaining terms of the policy. 
Based  on what Ive seen, Miss S and Mr S have paid some of the expenses  but 
others have not been paid. Where Miss S or Mr S have incurred recoverable 
expense, theyve been kept out of the use of that money, so IPA should  also pay 
interest on those sums, from the date of payment  by Miss S or Mr S to the date of 
settlement. 
I agree  with the investigator that IPA should also pay compensation of £100 in 
relation to Miss S distress and inconvenience. She was clearly inconvenienced by 
IPAs incorrect refusal  of her claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss S and Mr S complaint. I now require Inter Partner 
Assistance SA to:
Deal with Miss S claim under the remaining  terms of the policy.
Pay interest on any recoverable amounts  that Miss S or Mr S have already paid at 
the simple rate of 8% per year from the date of the claim or the date Miss S or Mr S 
incurred the expense (whichever is the later), to the date IPA makes  the payment.
Pay compensation of £100 in relation to Miss S distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 May 2020. .
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2265260