K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that it was irresponsible  of Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as 
Sunny) to lend to him.
background
Mr B was given five loans  by Sunny  between  July 2015 and May 2016. Each of the loans 
was repayable in six monthly instalments. Mr B successfully repaid each of the first four 
loans - three  of the loans were  repaid  much  earlier than they were  due. But Mr B hasnt been 
able to repay the final loan and a balance remains outstanding.  A summary of Mr Bs 
borrowing from Sunny  is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 11/07/2015 24/07/2015 £ 400
2 28/07/2015 19/09/2015 £ 400
3 21/09/2015 14/03/2016 £ 400
4 31/10/2015 16/12/2015 £   50
5 13/05/2016 - £ 950
Mr Bs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She thought that the checks  
Sunny had done before agreeing the first two loans  had been sufficient. But she thought  
Sunny should  have  done more checks before giving Mr B the remaining loans. And she 
thought that better checks would have shown  Sunny  that it shouldnt have given loan 4 
and loan 5 to Mr B. So she asked Sunny to pay Mr B some compensation.
Disappointingly Sunny hasnt responded to that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt 
been resolved  informally,  it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the 
last stage of our process. If Mr B accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN22372582But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Mr B was asked by Sunny to provide details of his income and expenditure before each loan 
was agreed. I dont  think there was anything  in the information Mr B provided or the 
information Sunny shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to 
start verifying what he said when the first three loans were  agreed. So I dont think Sunny 
was wrong to give these  loans  to Mr B.
Mr B had taken new loans on each occasion  shortly after repaying his previous borrowing. 
But when he asked  for loan 4 Mr B was still someway short of having repaid loan 3. So that 
meant hed need  to make repayments on two loans at the same time. I think  this should 
have caused some concerns to Sunny. And the amount  Mr B asked to borrow  on his final 
loan was significantly more than hed ever borrowed before. So I think it would have been 
proportionate for Sunny  to have  independently  verified Mr Bs true financial position  before 
agreeing those two loans.
Had it done so Sunny would have seen that Mr B was spending significant amounts on 
gambling transactions. His normal spending each month on these transactions  was well in 
excess of half his normal income, and meant that he had no disposable income left that he 
could use to repay his borrowing from Sunny. It would also have seen that Mr B was 
borrowing from a number  of other  short term lenders  he was effectively borrowing each 
month just to repay his previous loans.
Ref: DRN22372583So I dont  think that Sunny  should have agreed to give loans 4 and 5 to Mr B and so it needs 
to pay him some compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Mr B after, and including, the loan that he 
took on 31 October 2015 (loan 4). So for both of those loans Sunny should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr B on these loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Bs credit  file in relation to these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
It seems  that Mr B still owes  Sunny some the principal balance  he borrowed on his final 
loan. Sunny may use the compensation that is due to Mr B (after  the deduction of tax) to 
reduce this outstanding balance. But, to be clear, that outstanding  balance should be 
recalculated to remove any interest  and charges, but taking account  of any repayments  Mr B 
has made on that loan as though they were applied against the principal sum borrowed.
Sunny should  attempt  to reach  a mutually  acceptable repayment plan for the remaining 
balance with Mr B. But in doing so it should  remember its responsibilities to continue to treat 
him positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold some of Mr Bs complaint and direct Elevate Credit  
International Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2237258