K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the new adviser  who took over from his former adviser looking after 
his investments with St. James Place Wealth Management Plc (the business).
In short,  Mr R says:
He feels like the new adviser has been imposed on him.
The new adviser  doesnt do anything for his money and shouldnt  receive  any 
commission. 
Any commission paid to the new adviser  should  be refunded.  
background
In 2011, Mr R was advised to invest  in several bonds through the business.   
In November 2017, Mr Rs former  adviser sold part of his business (which included  Mr Rs 
investments) to his new partner. 
But Mr Rs unhappy with the service his new adviser has provided and complained  to the 
business. 
In a Final Response Letter (FRL) dated February 2019 the business initially  rejected the 
complaint outright. In short, it said:
The new adviser  had regular contact with Mr R and had provided a service for which 
he ought to be paid. 
Because the new investment was arranged before December 2012, it was still 
subject to the ongoing service  charge, which Mr R cant now decide  not to pay having  
agreed to it at the point of sale. 
Subsequently the business  partially upheld the complaint. Whilst it maintained that the fees 
were what  Mr R had agreed with the business in 2011, it offered him £250 compensation as 
a good will gesture for not recognising that he was wasnt happy with the situation. Unhappy 
with the situation Mr R referred  the complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
In November 2017, Mr Rs former  adviser transferred a number of his clients 
(including Mr R) to his new partner. Mr R was informed of this and there were 
telephone calls between  him and the new adviser about this. 
The change in fees from 31 December 2012,  where a customer doesnt  want 
ongoing advisory service, the customer can opt out from paying this fee but wont 
receive any ongoing advice/service.  
As this change only applies to new investments, and Mr Rs investment is from 2011, 
it doesnt apply  to him. 
The fees Mr R was paying were already set  as per his agreement with the business  
and cant be changed. 
Mr R can set up his investments (via email)  to deal with the business direct   without 
the new adviser being involved   but the fees will remain the same.  
Ref: DRN29635262In respect of leaving the business  and going  to another business,  Mr R can do this. 
But the business said whilst there  were no surrender penalties applying to any of the 
bonds as theyre passed their respective dates, there may be other issues to 
consider upon  full surrender  such as chargeable events which  Mr R may wish to 
get financial advice  on.
Overall the business hasnt behaved unreasonably and Mr R still has options whether  
or not he wishes to deal with the business  direct or go elsewhere. 
The £250 offered as a good will gesture  for not recognising how upset Mr R was, is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Mr R disagreed with the investigators view and made a number of points in response. But 
the investigator having considered the new points wasnt  persuaded  to change his mind. In 
summary, he said:
Its clear the relationship between Mr R and the new partner isnt a good  one. But 
hes been considering the service provided  by the business, and is unable to say that 
the business has done anything  wrong in the circumstances. 
Mr R has been in direct contact with his old adviser and has still been  receiving a 
service from the business. 
Whilst he understands Mr Rs concerns about  any agreement with the new partner  
and lack of any agreement with him  Mr R still signed an agreement with the 
business in 2011,  and has been  paying fees as agreed since that time.  
In light of his discontentment with the new partner the business has offered Mr R the 
following three options which are fair and reasonable:
oOpt to have a direct service with the business (and not the new adviser)  but 
the fees would remain the same.
oGet a new adviser, with the business help, but the fees would again remain  
the same. 
oMove  Mr Rs investments away from the business but he should seek  
financial advice before doing  this. 
Mr R still disagrees  with the investigators view. In short,  hes made the following  key points:
Whilst hes happy with the time and effort taken by the investigator  to try and resolve  
this matter, hes dissatisfied with the response. 
The business having initially told him that commission payment was between him 
and his adviser/agent, in November 2018 it confirmed the following commission:
o3% initial  commission.  
oBetween 0.375% and 0.50% ongoing  commission depending  on the bonds. 
o1% management fees. 
The business didnt  send him anything  about  the advisers qualifications. 
Hes not made so much as a verbal  agreement with the new adviser.  It was the 
previous adviser  who provided a reasonable service unlike the new one, who is still 
taking commission. 
He was only informed  by his old adviser that he had sold part of his business to the 
new adviser who then invited himself over to visit. But Mr R had no say in the matter.
And as this started after the change in the law in December 2012   surely the new 
rules applied.   
He doesnt  understand  why the business cant tell him what  it has charged to date. 
And why the new adviser is receiving any fees for doing nothing.   
Ref: DRN29635263Hes approached a newspaper journalist in an effort make this case  public. Hes also 
provided two newspaper articles about the business and its fees.  
He will provide copies  of the complaint  to the industry regulator the Financial Conduct 
Authority (the FCA) and the City Watchdog in due course.  
He would like an ombudsmans decision.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for broadly the same  reasons. 
Im not going  to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr R says, Im unable to say that 
that the business has behaved unreasonably.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Rs strength of feeling about this matter.  
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr R and the business, and reach what I think 
is an independent,  fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
Its evident that Mr R is unhappy  with the service provided by the new adviser  such that he 
feels he shouldnt have  to pay any fees.   As a result he has brought  into question  the fees 
hes been paying. 
I understand in November  2017,  Mr Rs previous adviser  with whom he had a good 
working relationship  with and was happy to pay fees to sold/transferred part of his business 
(which included Mr Rs investments) to the new adviser.
Whilst I appreciate Mr R had no say in the matter and feels the new adviser was simply 
thrust upon  him without a choice, because it was his old advisers decision. I understand that 
he does now have  a choice as to whether or not he sticks  with this new adviser  or finds an 
alternative.
The situation  is a bit like when an investment provider is taken over by a third party 
administrator, and the customer doesnt  get a say, because its a matter for the businesses. 
Ref: DRN29635264But the customer still has a choice as to whether (or not) they continue with the new 
administrator or go elsewhere.  
But much like the investment provider,  I dont think the adviser needed  to obtain Mr Rs 
express consent or approval, before deciding what was in his business interest,  other than 
notifying Mr R and doing so in good time, so that he can meet the new adviser and so on. 
Whilst Mr R didnt have a choice with the sale/transfer of his investments to the new adviser, 
he does still have a choice as to whether (or not) he remains with him/the business or goes 
elsewhere. 
I understand Mr R has options,  either to get a new adviser (and the business will help him 
find one), or deal with the business  direct, either  way the fees would remain  the same. 
Alternatively he could  simply  take his business elsewhere because  he feels the relationship 
has broken down completely. 
It seems  to me that in this instance  Mr R is perhaps  not so much concerned  about  the fees 
as he is about  paying for something hes not receiving a service  for. I note Mr R says the 
new adviser  unlike his old adviser  is slow and acts as a post service,  and as a result  hes 
had to contact  the business directly to get information. 
I note the business maintains that he has been provided with a service, but one that Mr Rs 
not been very happy with. But that doesnt  in my opinion and in the circumstances 
automatically mean that Mr R is entitled  to a refund. Because even if hes had to contact the 
business direct because the service from the new adviser hasnt been quick  enough,  hes 
still received a service  from the business for which hed have to pay in any case. 
I understand itd still be the same fees that hed have to pay if he decided on a new adviser 
(with or without the business help) or deals with the business direct. And thats because  the 
portion of the fees he was paying to the new partner,  would  be paid to the business who 
would take over dealing with Mr R direct, rather than having  to pay two different fees or no 
fees at all. 
In other  words the business would simply take the element of the fees that Mr R was paying  
the adviser, for providing him with that service. 
  
I appreciate Mr R wants to know what fees hes paid to date rather  than just percentages. I 
appreciate its not always possible to do this easily or accurately despite what Mr R might  
think and is dependent upon investment  performance  and charges between  0.375% and 
0.50% a year.   
But I would expect the business  to be able to provide Mr R with an idea of what he has been 
paying by way of fees using its own accounts if need be.  
I also understand the point Mr R makes about  the business not charging him the fees 
following the changes  to the law in December  2012. I think  Mr Rs referring to ongoing or 
trail commission that was outlawed  by the industry regulator. 
The Retail Distribution Review (RDR) 2012  was a review by the FCA that, among other 
things, sought  to improve transparency in the communication of investment charges. As a 
result financial  advisers  were required to provide information upfront about  fees for the 
Ref: DRN29635265service they provided.  But because the RDR wasnt retrospective, it didnt apply to 
investments before its time, which meant a lot of the investments fell out of its scope.
So Mr R should understand that the new position  came into force  in or around January 2013 
and although it ruled out trail commission  it only applied to new investments sold after this 
time. In other words the changes dont apply retrospectively. 
I dont agree that the change from one adviser  to another  amounted to new investment for 
these purposes.  Ive seen nothing to suggest  Mr R ended  the 2011  investments and re 
started a new investment.  
If, notwithstanding the above,  Mr R still feels (because of what  he might have read in the 
papers) that the fees  to which he agreed in 2011  (six years before the involvement of the 
new adviser)  are too high he also has the option to leave the business. But he ought to get 
advice before deciding which course  of action is best for him.  
I appreciate Mr R will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached  the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business  to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr R 
what he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I made  no award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2963526