K821x#15complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain  that they were  mis-sold  a mortgage endowment policy  by 
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.)  Limited. The policy was sold in 1993 which 
was many years before they took out their first mortgage. This is commonly known as a 
forward sale.
background
I issued my provisional decision in February 2019.  The contents of my provisional decision 
are attached to this final decision  and form part of it. In my provisional decision I explained 
the redress I was minded  to award to settle Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have  any further submissions before I reached a final decision.
Mr B and Mrs B had nothing further  to add; other to tell us that from June 2005 the policy 
was no longer used  for mortgage  purposes. Sun Life responded in some  detail, largely  
saying that the risk element of the complaint is time barred  and Ive made  assumptions  and 
given retrospective  advice about  what Mr B and Mrs B would have done in 2000.
my findings
Ive reviewed everything carefully, and considered the case  afresh, but my decision hasnt 
changed on the proposed  redress or the reasons why. The arguments Sun Life has raised in 
response to my provisional  decision are all matters Id carefully considered  in reaching those 
provisional findings so I wont  be answering all the points raised individually.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  the redress I was minded to award  wasnt because 
I was saying the policy was mis-sold due to the level of risk in 1993 so the red letters arent 
relevant here. Theres a very simple  fact and thats if Sun Life hadnt  mis-sold this policy in 
1993 - as theres absolutely no doubt  that a policy shouldnt have been  sold to Mr B and 
Mrs B at that time - then Mr B and Mrs B wouldnt  have had an endowment  policy in 2000 to 
use towards their first mortgage. 
Sun Life has said Im making assumptions and giving retrospective advice. It said we do not 
know if they could  have afforded a repayment option  at that time. Im surprised Sun Life has 
made that statement as it would  have  been very easy  for it to have done a quick calculation  
even using a free tool available  on the internet to work out how much a repayment  mortgage 
would have been at around  that time, compared to the endowment supported  interest-only 
mortgage. Had it done so it would have  found  that a repayment mortgage (with decreasing 
term assurance) would have been  about  the same  monthly cost,  or perhaps even cheaper 
than an interest-only  mortgage with this endowment  policy.
Mr B and Mrs B were  first time buyers  buying their council house. As the financial climate  
had changed so much  by 2000 Im satisfied  Mr B and Mrs B wouldnt have opted to take an 
endowment supported mortgage at that time had Sun Life not already mis-sold them  this 
endowment policy.  Im satisfied the cost of an equivalent repayment mortgage would have 
been broadly similar  to their endowment supported mortgage and so would  have been  
affordable. Taking  that all into account, on balance, I think it most  likely that Mr B and Mrs B 
would have taken  a full repayment  mortgage in 2000  had this policy  not already been in 
force. It follows, therefore, that Sun Life should  compensate them for their full loss from the 
bad advice that was given  in 1993.
Ref: DRN28792782So, having  considered everything, I see no reason to depart from the decision I previously 
reached.
redress
Im satisfied Mr B and Mrs B shouldnt have been sold the policy in 1993, and wouldnt have 
bought a policy in 2000. This means the redress needs to compare the costs of the 
endowment supported mortgage they had, to the repayment mortgage  Im satisfied  they 
would have taken  instead.
As the term of the policy started nearly seven years  before the mortgage its unrealistic to 
assume the hypothetical repayment mortgage used  in the calculation started at the same 
time as the policy (because Mr B and Mrs B didnt take a mortgage at that point). Instead its 
reasonable to assume that Mr B and Mrs B would  have taken out a repayment mortgage  on 
the same  date they took the interest-only  mortgage  (that is, 21 February  2000)   with the 
original 25 year term. So in the calculation, Sun Life should use the original  25 year term for 
the term of the hypothetical repayment mortgage.
Mr B and Mrs B have said they stopped  using  the policy  for mortgage purposes in June 2005  
so that should be factored into the calculation. As red letters had been  issued by that point  
Im satisfied Mr B and Mrs B kept the policy in June 2005 knowing the risks of doing so. That 
changes the loss capping  date from the date of surrender (1 July 2009) to the date they 
stopped using the policy for mortgage purposes  (23 June 2005).
Sun Life should pay Mr B and Mrs B the calculation D minus E where:
A.a refund of the premiums paid from the date the policy started  (5 May 1993) to the date 
that the mortgage started (21 February  2000);
B.interest  on the premiums paid before the mortgage started from the date of payment to 
the date the policy was no longer used for mortgage purposes (23 June 2005);
C.the loss identified by carrying out a loss calculation in accordance  with the standard 
RU89 guidance using  a nil surrender  value  and, for the hypothetical  repayment  
mortgage, a mortgage  term equal to the original term of the endowment, up to 23 June 
2005;
D.= A+B+C;
E.the surrender  value  of the policy at 23 June 2005.
If a loss is identified  in the calculation then interest  should  be added to that sum from the 
date of surrender  until the date the redress is paid. Interest  is calculated at 8% simple per 
year.
If Sun Life considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr B and Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr B and Mrs B a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN28792783my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.)  Limited to 
calculate Mr B and Mrs Bs loss in accordance with the redress section above. Sun Life 
should send a copy of its calculation to Mr B and Mrs B along with an explanatory  letter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 April 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN28792784COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain  that they were mis-sold a mortgage endowment policy by 
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited. The policy was sold in 1993 which was many 
years before they took out their first mortgage. This is commonly known as a forward  sale.
background
In 1993 Mr B and Mrs B were sold a unit-linked mortgage endowment policy.  It had a target amount of 
£20,000, a term of 25 years  and a monthly premium of £37.11.
We were told that they took out their first mortgage in January 2001, but upon looking  at data held by 
the Land  Registry I believe the mortgage actually started on 21 February 2000 as thats the date the 
property was bought by Mr B and Mrs B. 
Mr B and Mrs B complained  to Sun Life in 2018.  In response Sun Life said the complaint had been 
brought too late. Mr B and Mrs B didnt  accept  this and referred the complaint to our service.
Sun Life didnt agree  to us considering  the complaint, again  saying it had been brought  too late as 
warning letters had been issued in the early 2000s about  the risk of the policy not reaching its target 
amount. 
In November 2018 an ombudsman colleague issued a decision explaining what  elements  we could 
consider in respect of this complaint. He said the warning letters only excluded  a complaint about the 
risk of the policy, not about the suitability of the forward  sale.
Sun Life then looked at the complaint again and upheld the forward sale element. In resolution  it 
offered to refund  the life cover charges,  plus interest, from the start of the policy until the start of the 
mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt think Sun Lifes offer of compensation  went far enough and recommended  a 
different award.  Sun Life didnt accept our adjudicators view and so it has been passed to me to 
decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
As Sun Life has now accepted that the forward  sale was unsuitable I dont need  to go into detail  about 
that. Suffice to say I agree it wasnt good advice  to set up a mortgage endowment policy  for Mr B and 
Mrs B in 1993 when they had no set plan to take out a mortgage  (and in fact didnt do so for nearly 
seven years).
Where I dont agree  with Sun Life is on how this mis-sale  should be put right. As my ombudsman 
colleague said, we cant consider whether  this mortgage  endowment  policy was suitable in terms of 
risk in 1993 as that element of the complaint has been brought too late. But thats not the end of it.
Its not in dispute that Mr B and Mrs B shouldnt  have been sold this mortgage endowment policy in 
May 1993. So I need  to decide what I think they would  have done in February  2000  when they bought 
their first house if they didnt already have the policy. Do I think  they would have taken the same,  or 
equivalent mortgage endowment policy  then?  Or do I think  they would have done something 
different?
Ref: DRN28792785The financial  environment  had changed significantly between 1993  and 2000. By 2000  the new 
regulator, the Financial Services  Authority,  was being set up, and investigations were being 
undertaken into potential widespread mis-selling. Some providers had started writing  to policyholders  
about the need to increase  their premiums  to avoid shortfalls  at maturity.  And from January 1999 new 
 lower  potential rates  of return had to be used in illustrations, a decrease from 5%, 7.5% and 10% 
down to 4%, 6% and 8%.
In 2000 Mr B and Mrs B were first time buyers buying their council house and taking out a £25,000 
mortgage. Having considered everything  and bearing  in mind the substantially changed financial 
climate by then  Im persuaded, on balance, that Mr B and Mrs B would most  likely have taken a full 
repayment mortgage when  buying their house in 2000  had they not already been sold the endowment 
policy. 
To be clear,  this element isnt time barred  by way of the red letters issued in the early  2000s  as Im 
not saying this policy  was mis-sold due to the level of risk in 1993, rather that it was mis-sold because 
of the forward  sale, and had that not happened I dont think Mr B and Mrs B would  have taken  an 
endowment policy in 2000.  So the correct  redress is to put them  back  in that position.
proposed redress
Im satisfied Mr B and Mrs B shouldnt  have been sold the policy  in 1993, and wouldnt have bought a 
policy in 2000. This means the redress needs to compare  the costs of the endowment supported 
mortgage they had, to the repayment mortgage Im satisfied they would have taken instead.
As the term of the policy  started nearly  seven years before the mortgage its unrealistic  to assume  the 
hypothetical repayment mortgage  used in the calculation  started at the same time as the policy  
(because Mr B and Mrs B didnt take a mortgage at that point). Instead its reasonable  to assume  that 
Mr B and Mrs B would have taken out a repayment mortgage on the same date they took the interest-
only mortgage  (that is, 21 February 2000)   with the original 25 year term. So in the calculation,  Sun 
Life should use the original 25 year term for the term of the hypothetical repayment mortgage.
Sun Life should pay Mr B and Mrs B the calculation D minus E where:
F.a refund of the premiums paid from the date the policy started  (5 May 1993)  to the date that the 
mortgage started (21 February  2000);
G. interest on the premiums paid before the mortgage started from the date of payment to the date 
the policy was surrendered  (1 July 2009);
H.the loss identified by carrying out a loss calculation  in accordance with the standard RU89  
guidance using a nil surrender value and, for the hypothetical repayment mortgage, a mortgage 
term equal to the original term of the endowment up to the date the policy  was surrendered;
I.= A+B+C;
J.the surrender  value  of the policy  at the date of surrender.
If a loss is identified in the calculation then interest should be added to that sum from the date of 
surrender until the date the redress is paid. Interest  is calculated at 8% simple per year.
Ref: DRN28792786Ive asked Mr B and Mrs B (via their representative)  to provide us with their full detailed  mortgage 
history from February 2000  to July 2009 as that will need to be taken  into account in part C of the 
calculation above. Their representative has replied with some  information but thats not sufficient for a 
calculation to be carried out. For instance  I understand Mr B and Mrs B sold their original property in 
June 2005 and at around that time it seems they began living separately.  So well need to know - from 
the point they separated  - whether it was Mr B or Mrs B (or neither) that was using  the endowment 
policy for mortgage  purposes.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions, my provisional  decision is that I intend to uphold  this complaint 
and order Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited to calculate Mr B and Mrs Bs loss 
in accordance  with the proposed redress section above.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2879278