K820x#14complaint
Ms H says Northern Bank Limited  mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy in 1998.
background
Ms H took out a mortgage in January 1998  and at the same time she purchased  a PPI 
policy.
The policy cost just over £6 each month and it covered Ms H in the event she wasnt working 
due to accident, sickness or unemployment  and it wouldve provided  a monthly benefit of 
£100 for up to 12 months following a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Ms H disagreed  so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think its likely  Northern  made it clear that Ms H didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to purchase the policy   although I can understand if she cant remember  this 
given how long ago it was.
I havent been able to look at all the paperwork from the time the policy was sold but I 
dont think this is surprising given how long ago the sale took place. However,  I do know 
that the way PPI was presented in 1998 showed that it was optional,  and that a customer 
needed to agree for a policy to be set up. And the sample paperwork supplied  by 
Northern suggests  that this is what  happened. So Im satisfied the policy was optional  
and I think its more  likely that Ms H was given  a choice about the PPI. 
Northern  recommended the PPI to Ms H so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
and, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, Ms H wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  
she told us she was employed  and in good health.
Ms H was working at the time and she says she had some  occupational benefits from 
her employers  if she was off work sick. But this doesnt automatically mean that the 
policy was unsuitable. This is because if she were unable  to work, the PPI was intended  
to remove the additional  pressure of maintaining  mortgage repayments, at what  would 
likely be a difficult time.  And this wouldve been important to Ms H as she was solely 
responsible for making those mortgage  payments.
The PPI wouldve helped to pay the monthly  mortgage costs for up to 12 months for 
each successful claim  and on top of any other  cover she had. So I dont think Ms Hs 
Ref: DRN24097312existing work  benefits wouldve made the PPI unsuitable. And I think it was reasonable of 
Northern to recommend  it to her.  
  
Its possible the information Northern gave Ms H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out to protect herself  so it looks  like she 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it wouldve been  useful for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about 
the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought carefully about everything else Ms H and her representative have  said. But for 
the reasons Ive explained I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Which means Northern doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
But Northern has already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms H because:  
Northern got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it shouldve told Ms H about that. Because Northern didnt tell Ms H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Ms H any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2409731