K820x#14Complaint
Mr B1s complaint in about  how he has been  treated by Barclays  Bank UK PLC while  dealing  
with the estate of Mr B and the estate  of Mrs B (Mr B1s late parents). 
Mr B1 has other complaints that he has raised against Barclays.  This decision relates to his 
complaint that his authority to act on behalf of his parents wasnt recognised over many 
years and the embarrassment this caused.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr B1 had legal documents in place  during  his parents lifetime  which  meant he had 
the authority to act on their behalf.  Mr B1 has provided copies  of enduring  power of 
attorney (EPA) documentation for both his parents with him appointed as attorney. 
This is dated 2001. Barclays has explained  that it received the EPA in 2001 for Mr B1 
to be attorney for his mother and that at this time a general power of attorney was set 
up. This was changed to an EPA in 2011. Regarding Mr B1s father, Barclays  says 
that there was a third-party authority in place  for Mr B1 to act on behalf of Mr B. 
While there  are different  documents mentioned  regarding Mr B1s parents, it is clear 
that he had authority  to act on behalf  of both is parents for a number  of years while 
they were alive.
Barclays has acknowledged  that Mr B1 had authority to act for his parents.  Mr B1 
said he wasnt treated in the away  he should have been while performing this role. 
Given the time that has passed since Mr B1 was acting on behalf  of his parents, 
details regarding this period are limited. So, while  I understand  that it would have 
been upsetting if Mr B1 feels wasnt treated as he should have been, without further 
evidence I do not find I can say that his authority to act for his parents  wasnt  
recognised by Barclays.
Following the passing  of Mr B1s parents  (Mr B passed away  in 2003 and Mrs B 
passed away in 2014),  the documents in place  granting Mr B1 authority to act 
expired. Because of this, Mr B1 no longer had access to any online accounts  for his 
parents. Barclays has explained that documentation is required when a person 
passes away and I note that Mr B1 is named as an executor in Mr Bs and Mrs Bs 
wills.
Overall, while  I can see that Mr B1 is upset  by the experience  he has had over the 
years he has been dealing with Barclays on behalf  of his parents,  without  further 
evidence of issues, I do not find I can say he has been treated unfairly.
For these reasons, I do not find that I have enough evidence to uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN20464382My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays  Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B1 on behalf of 
the estate of Mr B and the estate of Mrs B to accept  or reject my decision before 
7 November 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2046438