K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with her when she attended a 
branch.
background
Mrs S says before attending a Barclays branch, she contacted it about the maximum amount 
she could transfer  from her account.  She says when  she attended a branch she was given 
conflicting information and told she could transfer money by another method but that would 
cost £25. Mrs S says she and her son were then treated badly by Barclays  staff and shouted 
at by the branch manager. She would like a full investigation into what happened and 
compensation as well as an apology. Mrs S also says Barclays  should have retained any 
CCTV from the branch  which would  support  what she says happened.
Barclays has apologised for not explaining  that there would be a fee involved due to the 
amount transferred. It doesnt  accept that its branch manager acted inappropriately and says 
the manager was concerned when Mrs Ss son spoke inappropriately towards her when she 
forgot her PIN for her account card.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Barclays  had dealt fairly with 
the complaint.  The adjudicator thought both parties to the complaint had accused  each  other 
of inappropriate  behaviour and in those circumstances it was difficult to say what had taken 
place. The adjudicator didnt think Mrs S had lost any money and thought  Barclays  had given 
her the correct information  about the transfer  when she attended the branch. And the 
adjudicator thought Barclays staff member acted reasonably by intervening in any dispute 
with her son.
Mrs S doesnt accept that view and says she has told the truth but its in Barclays interests  
not to tell the truth. She says Barclays should  have kept the CCTV and that Barclays  hasnt 
helped matters by suggesting her signature  on our complaint  form wasnt  correct. Mrs S 
would like Barclays to review its complaint handling procedure.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Mrs S will be disappointed  by my decision.
I have no doubt  that Mrs S was given incorrect information about the transfer of money but 
that the correct  position was explained  to her when she attended the branch. I think  it likely  
that the disagreement between the parties took place when Mrs S forgot her PIN and her 
son intervened. In those  circumstances I dont think Barclays staff member  made a mistake 
by intervening when I think  she reasonably believed Mrs S was being spoken  to 
inappropriately, even  if that wasnt the case.  
I accept that it may have  been the case that Mrs S wasnt spoken to inappropriately by her 
son and there may have  been a misunderstanding about what  took place. So Im satisfied 
that in these circumstances it is difficult to be sure of exactly what  took place. But I think  Mrs 
Ss main part of the complaint is how her son was spoken to and treated by the Barclays  
staff member. I think both Barclays staff member and Mrs S both explain from different sides 
that there  was a disagreement between that staff member and Mrs Ss son .And I make 
Ref: DRN24141692clear that I can only look at how Mrs S herself was treated  as she has brought this complaint 
and she is Barclays customer.   
I appreciate Mrs S says Barclays  should  have kept the CCTV from the branch. But I dont 
think it would  have  made any difference to my decision. I say that as I think it unlikely the 
CCTV would  have  captured sound  and most of this complaint  concerns conversations  
between the parties.  And I also think it unlikely the CCTV would have covered interview 
rooms in any event.  I also appreciate that Mrs S says that Barclays  should  review its 
complaint handling process.  But thats not something I can fairly  order  as we are not the 
regulator of Barclays.
I understand Mrs Ss frustration with Barclays following its suggestion  that her signature  on 
her complaint form to us didnt match the one it held. I dont think Barclays concerns were 
reasonable or helpful and Im satisfied the two signatures match. So I understand Mrs Ss 
concerns in those  circumstances. I dont think that issue significantly delayed matters  or that 
it justifies any compensation.
Overall as I cant be certain what took place in the branch, I cant  reasonably conclude that 
Barclays acted unfairly  in the main part of this complaint for the reasons Ive explained.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2414169