K822xComplaint
Miss A has complained  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) unfairly continued  to 
apply interest, fees and charges to her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
Background and my provisional decision of 18 February 2021
Miss A complained about Halifaxs  changes to its pricing overdraft pricing  structure and said 
this led to her experiencing financial difficulty.  Halifax issued a final response letter  on             
20 November 2017 and weve already explained why were  unable to consider  this part of 
Miss As complaint. 
Miss A has since complained about the overdraft charges added after November  2017.  One of 
our investigators looked at this complaint and didnt think Halifax  had done  anything wrong or had 
treated Miss A unfairly. Miss A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.   
On 18 February 2021 I issued a provisional  decision, which  forms part of this final decision 
and it attached. In my provisional decision, I set out why I was intending to uphold  Miss As 
complaint and invited both parties  to make  any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Following this, Halifax confirmed that it accepted my decision and agreed to put things right 
in the way that I set out. Miss A disagreed with my provisional decision as she was unhappy  
that I hadnt directed Halifax to remove any adverse information from her credit file or told it 
to buy back the overdraft debt it sold to a third-party debt purchaser. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I intended to uphold Miss As complaint in my provisional 
decision. And, in the absence of anything further, from either party  in relation to my decision 
to uphold the complaint itself, I see no reason for me to depart from those conclusions.
That said,  I have considered Miss As comments in relation to how I directed Halifax  to put 
things right for her. Miss A is unhappy  that I havent  asked  Halifax  to remove negative 
information from her credit file or told it to buy back the debt it sold. Ive thought  about  what 
Miss A has said including the length  of time taken to resolve matters. 
I understand the argument Miss A has made and sympathise with what  shes  said about the 
length of time taken  to resolve matters  as well as any difficulty she may have had obtaining  
additional credit. I have  to say that I simply dont agree with Halifaxs assertion that it bears no 
responsibility for the length of time to resolve matters. I find this assertion somewhat churlish 
given just how long,  as well as the opportunities, Halifax has had to put things right for Miss A. 
That said,  irrespective of Halifaxs actions here,  it might help for me to explain that I didnt 
uphold Miss As complaint because I thought Halifax shouldnt have lent to her in the first 
place. I upheld Miss As complaint because Halifax should have  realised that Miss A was 
experiencing financial difficulty, wasnt using  her overdraft as intended and shouldnt  have 
continued offering  it on the same terms. In other words, I thought  that Halifaxs  failure  to take 
corrective action in circumstances  where  it ought  to have realised that Miss As overdraft had 
become unsustainable for her meant that it had failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Ref: DRN28259382Taking corrective action of this kind would have  resulted in adverse information being 
recorded. Miss A might not have  wanted  adverse information recorded on her credit file, but 
Im satisfied that as a regulated firm under an obligation not to lend irresponsibly, Halifax  
ought to have stepped  in and taken the required action even though  Miss A might  not have  
wanted this, as she was clearly  in a position where she simply afford for things to carry on 
going as they were.   
Ive asked Halifax to retrospectively take action and rework Miss As account such that it is 
now in the position it would be in had it taken the action it should have in November 2017. In 
these circumstances,  it would unreasonable its logic and plainly  inaccurate  to now also tell 
Halifax to amend Miss As credit file and record she never got into difficulty,  when this is 
precisely the reason Ive upheld the complaint in the first place. Im afraid  this doesnt reflect 
what actually happened, or will happen  here.  I dont think doing this would be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. So Halifax should reflect what  would  have happened,  
on Miss As credit file, had it taken corrective action in November 2017.
Miss A is also unhappy Halifax sold her balance to a third-party debt purchaser.  But a lender 
is entitled to sell a debt on. A lender might sometimes decide to buy back a debt should a 
complaint be upheld further down  the line and it be required  to put things right. But a lender 
isnt required to do this. 
In this case, Halifax has said that it will ensure Miss As outstanding balance is adjusted  to 
account for the refunded  interest fees and charges. And it has confirmed that it will only 
record information on Miss As credit  file for the period she owed  it a balance  in other 
words the period it owned any debt. And of course,  Miss A is also entitled to take up matters 
with the third-party  debt purchaser if she believes it is recording inaccurate information. So 
Im satisfied Halifax is proposing to ensure  Miss A isnt going to lose out and Im not 
requiring it to buy her balance back.
Overall and having considered Miss As further points, Ive not been persuaded to alter my 
conclusions on how Halifax should  put things right for her. And I remain  satisfied that Halifax  
should put things right in the way Ive set out below.
Fair compensation  Halifax needs  to do to put things right for Miss A.
Having thought about everything, including the points made in response  to my provisional 
decision, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Miss As 
complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Miss As current overdraft  balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from November 2017  onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have been 
made Halifax  should contact Miss A to arrange  a suitable repayment plan for this. If it 
considers it appropriate  to record  negative  information  on Miss As credit file, it should 
backdate this to November  2017.
OR
Ref: DRN28259383If the effect  of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being an 
outstanding balance, then any extra should  be treated  as overpayments  and returned to 
Miss A along  with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments  from the date they were 
made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding  balance remains  after 
all adjustments have been made, then Halifax should  remove  any adverse information  
from Miss As credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Miss A a certificate  showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 18 February 2021, Im 
upholding Miss As complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN28259384COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Miss A has complained  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) unfairly continued  to 
apply interest, fees and charges to her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
Background
Miss A complained about Halifaxs  changes to its pricing overdraft pricing  structure and said this 
led to her experiencing financial  difficulty. Halifax issued a final response  letter  on 20 November 
2017 and weve already  explained why were unable  to consider this part of Miss As complaint.  
Miss A has since complained about the overdraft charges added after November  2017.  One of 
our investigators looked at this complaint and didnt think Halifax  had done  anything wrong or had 
treated Miss A unfairly. Miss A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules,  regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at whether a bank  treated  a customer fairly  and reasonably  when applying  overdraft 
charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this provisional decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I think Halifax  acted unfairly  when it continued 
charging overdraft interest and usages fees from November  2017. By this point, Miss A had 
already made Halifax aware that these  charges were causing financial difficulty. Miss A also 
hadnt seen or maintained a credit  balance for an extended  period of time and her monthly 
income of between £600 and £750 ensured that she was never  going  to exit her overdraft within  
a reasonable period of time. Furthermore,  Halifaxs own literature suggests that overdrafts  are 
supposed to be for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
So all of this means  that Halifax  should  have realised that Miss A was experiencing financial 
difficulty, wasnt using  her overdraft as intended  and shouldnt  have continued  offering  it on the 
same terms.  As Halifax didnt react to Miss As overdraft usage as well as what it had been  told 
and instead continued charging in the same  way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Miss A ended up paying additional interest,  fees and charges on her overdraft at a time 
when she was already experiencing difficulty.  So Im intending to say that Miss A lost out 
because of what Halifax did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what  Im intending to say Halifax needs to do to put things right 
for Miss A.
Having thought about everything, Im intending to issue  a final decision saying that it would be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of Miss As complaint  for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Miss As current overdraft  balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from November 2017  onwards are removed.
Ref: DRN28259385AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have been 
made Halifax  should contact Miss A to arrange  a suitable repayment plan for this. If it 
considers it appropriate  to record  negative  information  on Miss As credit file, it should 
backdate this to November  2017.
OR
If the effect  of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being an 
outstanding balance, then any extra should  be treated  as overpayments  and returned to 
Miss A along  with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments  from the date they were 
made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding  balance remains  after 
all adjustments have been made, then Halifax should  remove  any adverse information  
from Miss As credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Miss A a certificate  showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold Miss As complaint and tell Bank  of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence I get by 18 March 2021 changes  my mind,  thats 
what Ill tell Halifax to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2825938