K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Advantage 
Finance Ltd (Advantage) is of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Mr B took receipt of a used car on 2 October  2018. He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Advantage. The car was eight years old and had already 
completed 89,456  miles.
Mr B said he had issues with the car within the first month. A brief timeline of the reported 
events is as follows:
Late October 2018  Mr B tells Advantage he wants to reject the car. He says the Engine  
Management Light  (EML) has illuminated  and the dealership havent been able to fix it. He 
says the car is backfiring and that he wants to reject  it;
5 November 2018  Advantage discuss this with the dealership.  The dealership explain that 
they were not aware of the EML problem. They explain  that they fixed a loose pipe and that 
Mr B had been concerned about noise  from a spoiler. They  say theyll  look at the EML 
problem if Mr B takes the car back to them;
7 November 2018  Mr B takes his car to a specialist  and they clean the Evaporative 
Emission Control System port and the throttle  body. The business refunds the cost.
Mr B contacted Advantage soon afterwards.  He said that only 70 miles later the warning light 
had come on again. 
So Advantage organised  an independent  inspection  which took place in mid November 
2018. The inspector noted that the EML was permanently illuminated and warning lamps for 
the reversing lights and for the headlights were  on; despite the lights working properly. He 
said this was a known problem and was probably due to the failure of a circuit  board. He 
went on to explain that these sorts of electrical  faults could happen suddenly and that, in his 
opinion, the fault was probably not present  or developing  at the point  of supply.
Advantage therefore didnt support Mr Bs complaint. They explained  that they were only 
responsible for faults that were present, or developing when the vehicle was supplied to him. 
They said hed approved the repairs that had been  carried out to date and that they didnt  
think there was evidence this problem had been  there from the start.
So Mr B referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  his opinion. He 
noted that the car had passed its MOT in October  before Mr B had taken receipt of it and he 
thought this suggested it was roadworthy  at that point. He considered  the expert evidence of 
the inspector and thought  it was therefore most likely the warning lights had illuminated  as a 
result of a circuit board fault that, most probably, happened suddenly  and at some point after 
the inception of the deal.  He understood that there  had been some query about whether 
aftermarket LEDs fitted to the car could have caused the problem. But having  discussed this 
with the independent  engineer he was persuaded that wasnt likely to have been the case.
Ref: DRN24821162He understood  that Mr B was also disappointed  that brakes had failed on the car after only 
1,200 miles. But he explained  that as these were  wear and tear items  he could not suggest 
they were Advantages responsibility.
He thought Advantages offer to assist  with the cost of repairs  was a reasonable one and he 
didnt think it would  be fair to ask them  to take any further action.
Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion. He provided a detailed response  in which  he 
mentioned, among other points,  that hed returned the car to the dealership in October 
because the EML was on and not because of a loose pipe; the independent  inspector had 
merely walked around the car and hadnt  completed  a thorough inspection and the brake  
pads should have lasted a lot longer  than 1,200 miles. He therefore  asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr B so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Advantage, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr B. The car here 
was around eight years old and had travelled almost 90,000  miles. Id expect some wear and 
tear on a vehicle of this age and mileage   it would not be fair to suggest it should be fault 
free as I would for a brand  new vehicle.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Advantage  to put this right. 
Ref: DRN24821163Legislation would encourage  us to assume that if a car developed  a fault in the first six 
months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
Im persuaded that there were faults  with this car in the first six months. The dealership have 
accepted they fixed  a loose pipe and Ive seen  evidence  of repairs to the EVAP  port and 
throttle body. But I dont think they are reasons to reject the car. I say that because  they 
appear to be relatively minor issues that I think could  reasonably  occur  through wear and 
tear in a vehicle  of this age and mileage.  I also dont  think  they are reasons to reject  the car 
because its clear Mr B authorised the repairs.
Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence  the warning lamps were  displayed, or a 
fault with them was developing, when the car was supplied. I say that because:
there was an MOT  completed just before Mr B took receipt of the car and I think  its 
most likely these  issues would  have shown if they were present  then;
the independent inspector who is an expert in these matters  has suggested its most 
likely the fault is related to a sudden electrical  failure and that these failures  are 
known to him. Hes suggested  its most likely this failure has occurred at some point 
since the car was supplied.
I understand Mr B asserts that the EML problem was reported  earlier  but Im afraid  I dont 
have sufficient evidence  that was the case.
Ive read the report provided by the inspector and I note he refers to checks  under the 
bonnet and that hes provided internal photographs of the car that I dont think  could have 
been taken from outside the vehicle. I dont think theres evidence  the report wasnt  
completed in sufficient detail. 
Advantage have  offered to fund part of the repair costs if Mr B provides  them  with a 
quotation. That seems  fair in the circumstances and I wont  be asking them  to take any 
further action.
I understand that Mr B is also unhappy about how quickly the brakes have  failed on his car. I 
dont think this is something that it would be fair to hold Advantage responsible  for. Brakes  
are a wear and tear item and will wear  according to several factors  such  as driving style. I 
dont think theres sufficient evidence that these brakes have failed prematurely.
Ref: DRN24821164my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2482116