K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (when it was trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold 
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Bs Barclaycard account when she applied for the card by post.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs Bs main complaint  is that she didnt need  the PPI policy  as she already had good sick 
pay benefits. She also told us that if the costs  versus benefits, as well as the optionality, of 
the policy had been made clear, she wouldve declined it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint because:
 Mrs B made it clear  on the application form that she wanted to take the policy out by 
ticking the Yes box for PPI. She couldve ticked the No box if she hadnt wanted PPI. 
So I find that Barclays made  Mrs B aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose 
to take it. 
 As this was a postal  application, Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it 
didnt have to check if it was suitable  for her. But Ive looked carefully at whether it 
gave her enough clear  information  so she could  decide  for herself if she wanted to 
have PPI.
 Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mrs B wasnt eligible  for the policy.  There  were  some 
things the policy  didnt cover but it doesnt  look as if those applied  in Mrs Bs case 
when she took out her Barclaycard.  So, I dont  think having more  information about 
things the policy  didnt cover wouldve affected  her decision to take it out.  
 Ive taken into account what Mrs B told us about her sick pay cover. But the policy 
wouldve paid more  than her minimum credit card repayments for up to 12 months per 
claim in the event of accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. Bearing in 
mind that Mrs B mightve also had some additional costs if she was too unwell to go 
back to work  or disabled,  I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
 And the policy wouldve also protected Mrs Bs credit card repayments  if she lost her 
job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Ref: DRN25306812 Mrs B told us that she didnt have  any other  ways to pay her credit  card if she wasnt 
working. So I think the policy couldve provided  Mrs B with a useful benefit if shed 
needed to claim. 
 I dont think Barclays properly explained  what the policy  would cost,  or what  it might  
pay out if Mrs B made  a claim.  But, even  if she hadnt  fully appreciated how much  PPI 
would actually cost on a month to month  basis, Mrs B chose to take out the policy  
when she didnt  have to  so she seems  to have wanted it. The policy appears to have 
been affordable  for her when  she took it out  and she couldve cancelled it at any time 
if her circumstances changed or she didnt want to pay for it any longer.
 Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered her, I think it unlikely Mrs B wouldve 
made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance, I think  
that shed still have taken out the policy.
This means  that, even though Barclays didnt do everything it shouldve  done, I dont find 
Mrs B has lost out because of anything Barclays did wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2019.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2530681