K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited wrongly  advised  him to take out an 
unsuitable 10 year savings endowment policy in 1990.
background
Mr Ps representative, a Claims Management  Company (CMC), said it was not clear why this 
plan had been recommended as there was no supporting paperwork to justify it. The advisor  
never assessed Mr Ps appetite for risk, and this was not a suitable recommendation.
Aviva rejected his complaint, saying its records showed that Mr P had declined to discuss his 
personal circumstances, but it had seen no evidence  to suggest the policy  had been  
unsuitable as he appeared  to be looking to make regular savings of £50 a month.
An adjudicator at this service  also did not feel there was sufficient  evidence  to justify  
upholding Mr Ps complaint.
She said that as the sale took place  nearly 30 years ago and the policy matured nearly  20 
years ago it was not surprising that Aviva had limited  paperwork about the nature of the 
advice. As businesses were only expected to retain documentation for six years after the 
expiry of a product or policy, Aviva  could not be blamed  for the absence  of greater 
information.
She also felt that as specific funds had been selected, this suggested Mr P had played  an 
active part in deciding  the make-up of the investment. She noted  that he had also signed  the 
key documentation.
Mr Ps CMC  did not agree, and said:
It doesnt accept  that a plan that invested in such high risk funds can be considered  
suitable, especially  when there  is no paperwork to justify the sale
The adjudicator  endorsed the sale of a with-profits plan to Mr P but appeared to 
accept that high risk funds were also acceptable
If Mr P was happy with high risk funds, and was possibly  a higher-rate tax payer,  
what benefits did this plan have when compared  with a PEP?
The fact that Mr P did not wish to disclose information does not mean that the advisor 
no longer had a duty to provide suitable  advice
Where did the advisor say that by restricting the information Mr P was willing to give 
this would hamper  his ability to provide advice?
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
Aviva is not required or expected to keep  a full file on an investment surrendered nearly 20 
years ago so I do not accept Mr Ps representatives  argument  that the absence of certain 
documents demonstrates  that certain  issues were not discussed. The absence of certain  
documents doesnt prove that no discussion took place.
Ref: DRN21664482Given this, Mr Ps representatives comments amount to little more than speculation and 
dont constitute  the sort of persuasive  evidence I would need to see in order to consider 
upholding this complaint.
Mr P was 35, married,  in full time employment  and earning a substantial salary,  none of 
which suggests that some form of regular savings plan was intrinsically inappropriate, 
particularly a with-profits plan.
There is no evidence, either way, to indicate what discussions  took place and why Mr P 
chose or agreed  to the mix of funds selected.  Clearly, the selected funds posed more  than a 
low or cautious risk to Mr Ps money  and would, in my view,  have reasonably  been 
described as posing  a broadly medium level of risk. Theres no evidence to suggest  this 
would have been intrinsically unsuitable.  I dont accept the CMCs view that the mix posed  a 
high risk.
Equally, there is no information about Mr Ps investment background or other existing  
holdings, so it is impossible to say whether this sort of mix would have been appropriate for 
Mr Ps situation, let alone whether the selection was suggested by the advisor or driven by 
his wishes.
Mr Ps representative has put forward no evidence about Mr Ps circumstances, investment 
history or objectives, merely asserting that the funds were  unsuitable  without suggesting in 
what way they were unsuitable for his specific situation or objective.  There  are, therefore, no 
grounds to uphold this complaint.
 
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2166448