K822xcomplaint
Mrs Ks representative, her husband  Mr K, complains on her behalf about  the service  
provided by Barclays  Bank  UK PLC. 
Mr K says:
It took Barclays a year to process the corporate action but only gave them a seven 
day window to action  it. All other third party businesses had received their warrants  
by September  2017.   
Barclays promised to call back Mrs K as soon as the corporate action was complete 
but failed to do so. As a result  it caused Mrs K a loss of £3,000, even  though it would 
have been aware the action was complete since July 2017. 
Hes thoroughly unhappy by one of the options offered  to do nothing   which is akin 
to throwing money into the waste paper basket. 
background 
In my provisional decision of 2 October 2019, a copy of which is attached and forms part of 
this, my final decision, I said I was minded to uphold  the complaint.  In short,  I said:
Because Barclays Smart Investor is an execution only stockbroker I accept it wasnt  
obliged to send  customers updates  about corporate  actions and other issues.   
Barclays had notified its customers via the portal, so it was up to the individual to 
keep up to date with specific actions. 
I cant blame Barclays for not doing something it wasnt  obliged to do. 
The overall service wasnt to a standard Mrs K could expect. And even  when it didnt 
have an update to give Mrs K it shouldve managed  her expectations better.  
I think Barclays should  pay Mrs K £250 compensation - less any money  paid  for 
trouble and upset  caused.  
I cant justify  asking  Barclays  to pay £3,000  compensation as requested. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  representations they wished for me to 
consider before making my final decision.   
Barclays responded and said that although  the ombudsman  had asked it to pay £250 it had 
previously been  willing to pay £350, which it would  be happy to stand by. 
Mr K also responded  and said:
Thank you for the time you have spent on my case.    I would like you to consider the below.
The below is stated  in the terms and conditions:
https://www.smartinvestor.barclays.co.uk/content/dam/bwdpublic/downloads/pdfs/smartinves
torterms.pdf
3. Corporate actions  and voting rights 3.1 Unless we agree otherwise with you, where we 
hold Assets  which give you rights in relation  to a company, including if we become aware of 
any proposed class action or group litigation: (i) we will not be responsible for taking any 
action in relation  to these matters, except to give effect to Default Action  if you do not give us 
an Instruction; (ii) to the extent permitted by Regulatory Requirements we will not be obliged 
to notify you or obtain your Instructions in relation to these matters;  (iii) if we do seek but do 
Ref: DRN27297922not receive your Instructions by any deadline  stated by us, we will take such  action  as we 
consider appropriate (including taking no action); and
The fact is they did agree otherwise on a number of occasions.  In my call with (name  
anonymised) on 11 Jan 2018.  He stated Everyone will be contacted.   They will write to 
everyone when  there is a resolution.     In my call with (name anonymised) on 15 June 
2018, he stated  They  will call me back  as soon  as there is an update.    I believe you 
originally agreed with my point of view and you were going  to rule in my favour  until Barclays 
produced a call where they left an answer on my answer phone  later in the day saying  there  
is no update.       This called made you change your mind as you think Barclays  have 
fulfilled their obligation by calling me back to tell me there is no update.     I disagree.    By 
informing me there is no update does not make good their commitment made to me that 
they would  call me back when there is an update.  It is like a vet promising again and again 
to call you as soon  as there is an update on your sick pet dog, calling an hour later saying 
there is no updatethen  the dog dies and he does not call.      There  is still an expectation 
that you should be called when there is news.  They agreed to contact me when there was 
news and they did not.
Furthermore they said everyone would be written to when there is an update.  And they did 
not write  to me or my wife.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of the responses from the parties, my conclusion regarding  the 
partial uphold,  remains  as set out previously, and for the same reasons. 
Except that I wish to apologise  and correct what I can only describe  as a typographical 
oversight on my part. And for that I am sorry.  
So, in light of Barclays response, the redress of £250 that I proposed in my provisional 
decision should be amended to reflect the correct figure of £350  less any monies paid 
already. 
Im very grateful to Barclays for its approach to this issue in confirming the figure it had 
offered previously and its agreement to pay this. In the circumstances  I dont consider it 
necessary to draft another provisional  decision.  
I also dont consider that any new points have been  raised, other than those  key points 
already made and considered by me in my provisional decision.  Ive considered all the points 
that I consider relevant to my decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I partially  uphold  the 
complaint. 
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should pay Mrs K £350  less any monies  
paid. 
Ref: DRN27297923Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27297924COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mrs Ks representative,  her husband Mr K, complains on her behalf about  the service provided  by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Mr K says:
It took Barclays a year to process the corporate action  but only gave them  a seven  day 
window to action it. All other third party businesses had received their warrants by September  
2017.   
Barclays promised to call back Mrs K as soon as the corporate action was complete but failed 
to do so. As a result  it caused Mrs K a loss of £3,000, even though it would  have been aware  
the action was complete  since  July 2017. 
Hes thoroughly unhappy by one of the options offered  to do nothing  which is akin to 
throwing money into the waste  paper  basket.  
background
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint but offered a payment  as a gesture of good will. In summary, it 
said: 
It understands Mrs K is upset she was unable  to take up the Premier Oil warrants as she 
wasnt informed of the corporate  action. 
At smart  investor, it sends out letters making  customers aware of any corporate action but its 
not obliged to do so, as its an execution only platform. In other  words, it has no obligation to 
send customers letters about corporate action and its the customers responsibility to know 
about investment  opportunities.  
It looked at the issue of the letters and is sorry if Mrs K didnt receive a letter.  
It previously  accepted that Mrs K wasnt called  back on a number of occasions  and feedback 
has been  logged. 
It offered £75 as a gesture of good  will.  
Mr K disagreed with Barclays and referred the complaint to our service. Effectively  he blames  
Barclays for Mrs K not being  able to take up the Premier Oil warrants. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and initially thought it should be upheld. In 
summary he said, that Barclays had failed to call back when it ought  to have with an answer.   
Barclays disagreed  with the investigator  conclusions  and provided evidence in the form of a 
telephone call recording that it hadnt  provided previously. Our investigator having  reconsidered the 
additional submissions was persuaded  to change his mind. In short  he said:
Hes not persuaded  that the complaint should be upheld. 
He no longer thinks Barclays undertook to resolve the matter the next time it called Mrs K, but 
rather it agreed to call back with an update  which it did the next afternoon. 
Mr K disagreed with the investigators  conclusions. In summary, he said:
There was more  than one occasion when  Barclays told Mrs K that itd call her when matters 
were resolved. 
Hed like us to listen to the call dated 11 January 2018, about 16 minutes into the call, hes 
told Barclays will write to clients when theres a resolution. It didnt write or call. 
The point is this corporate action shouldve  been actionable from August/September 2017 
and Mrs K missed out on all that time.  
Other  brokers  gave their clients warrants in September/November 2017 and they missed out. 
Ref: DRN27297925Barclays took one year and gave a six day window to action the warrants rather than a year 
which is what  Mrs K shouldve  had. And it didnt call back despite  he and his wife having  
called Barclays 20 plus times. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, subject  to any further submissions, Im minded to partially uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont think the redress offered by Barclays for trouble 
and upset, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
But before I explain why, I think  its important for me to recognise Mrs Ks frustration and strength of 
feeling about  this matter. Mr K has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive 
read and considered carefully. However,  I hope Mrs K wont take the fact my findings focus  on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose  of my decision isnt to address every single  point raised. Its also not my role to be a 
consumer champion or to regulate  or penalise  a business because  its made a mistake.  Thats  the 
role of the industry regulator the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). So I hope that this will help 
explain why we take the approach we do.
My role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr K and Barclays,  and reach what  I think
is an independent, fair and reasonable  decision based on the facts  of the case. In deciding
whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation  and best industry  
practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information
Ive been given,  whats  more likely than not to have happened.
Im aware that Barclays Smart Investor is an execution only stockbroker  so I accept that its not 
obliged to send customers updates about corporate actions  and other issues.  I note that this sort of 
information is nevertheless available and accessible  to all customers  online  on the customer portal  
 so I dont  think I can blame Barclays for either not writing to her or not chasing  up the issue.
I understand Mr Ks concerns about  one of the options to do nothing, but it was just an option, and 
whether or not it was an option to subscribe  to something which  has no value, Mrs K was under no 
obligation to take it. 
So whilst Mr K might consider doing nothing is akin to throwing money into the waste  paper  basket, 
this would  clearly depend on the individual circumstances of the investor, and might, for some, be a 
suitable outcome. In any case, its not for me to tell Barclays how to run its business as long as its 
doing so in the exercise of its reasonable  commercial judgement. And Mrs K is unhappy with an 
option shes not obliged  to take it. 
I note that once Barclays has notified its customers via the portal, its up to the individual to keep up to 
date with specific actions. I note Mr K says the information wasnt updated, but once the information  
was on there, the next steps where down to Mrs K to decide. Im satisfied that as an execution  only 
service, Barclays  wasnt obliged to do anymore.  
Even if Barclays had emailed and possibly sent letters  in the past, on balance I cant blame it for not 
doing so on this occasion. In other words, I cant blame  it for not doing something it wasnt obliged to 
do in the first place. 
Ref: DRN27297926I appreciate Mr K says that if Barclays hadnt undertaken to call him back he would have checked the 
website every  day. But there was nothing preventing  him from doing so in any case, particularly in 
light of Barclays  poor service getting back to him. 
Even if Barclays has failed to call back about the corporate action,  Im unable to safely say that this 
caused Mrs K financial loss. So for the reasons set out above,  I dont think Barclays is liable to pay 
Mrs K £3,000. 
Its clear that Mr K and Mrs K have made numerous calls over a number  of months  because they 
werent getting answers to their queries. I note despite reluctance Barclays accepts  that due to the 
sheer levels of calls as per history notes on full serve its willing to give Mrs K the benefit of the 
doubt. 
Im mindful of the time Mr K says Mrs Ks had to make-up her mind compared to Barclays which  had a 
full year. I appreciate Mrs Ks unhappy about this. But Im not sure that this is entirely  accurate given  
when the information  was made available on the portal so Mrs K potentially  had more time.  
Im aware from other matters  that Ive dealt  with against Barclays that it spent  some time deciding if it 
would accept synthetic warrants. Its likely this may have had an impact of the length of time it took 
before communicating  a clear picture. Im also aware of the frustration this has caused some 
customers. 
I note Mr K says Barclays  took a year to action the corporate action whereas other business took only 
two weeks.  But its ultimately a matter  for Barclays in the exercise of its legitimate commercial  
judgement, how it runs its business and in doing so decide whats best for its business  and its 
customers. I dont think this means  Mrs K is entitled to have a year to decide. I also dont think its 
within Barclays gift to give her this sort of a timescale. 
I note Barclays offered  £75 compensation for failing  to call back as a gesture of good will, it appears 
this was in relation to a single  call, but I dont think its reasonable in the circumstances. 
On the face of the evidence, including the timeline  provided by Mr K, and on balance, Im satisfied 
that Barclays on numerous occasions has failed to call back  whether  its an update or an answer  
that Mrs K mightve been  looking for  it simply didnt provide the service they could expect over a 
substantial period of time. Mr K on her behalf did what was reasonable in an effort to obtain further 
clarification by repeatedly  calling Barclays. 
Whilst Barclays couldnt provide answers to the questions that it didnt know,  it should have managed 
Mrs Ks expectations  better by providing  clearer  information.    
So in the circumstances, I think  Barclays should  pay Mrs K £250 compensation (less any money 
already paid) for the trouble and upset caused. 
Despite what Mr K says about  losses,  on the face of the evidence and on balance Im unable to safely  
say Mrs Ks suffered any financial losses that I can attribute to Barclays and in the circumstances I 
just cant  justify £3,000 compensation.
Im sorry if Mrs K feels  that the redress is insufficient, and Mr Ks just wasted his time referring the 
complaint to us. Every  case has to be considered  in light of its individual facts and redress has to be 
proportional and in accordance with what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, which I think 
the amount offered is.
I appreciate Mrs K will be disappointed with my decision, but in the circumstances, Im unable  to give 
her what she wants.
Ref: DRN27297927my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im minded to partially 
uphold this complaint. 
I think  Barclays should  pay Mrs K £250  compensation for trouble  and upset  caused, less any money 
paid. 
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2729792