K820x#14complaint
Mrs As unhappy Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited  (Aviva) declined her claims under her life 
insurance policy. 
Background
In 2005 Mrs A took out a life insurance policy which expired in August 2018.  In January 2016 
Mrs A was diagnosed with thyroid  cancer and underwent a thyroidectomy. And she 
contacted Aviva a few months later to make a terminal illness claim on her policy.
After getting evidence from Mrs As consultant, Aviva declined her claim saying she didnt 
meet the policy definition  for payment of terminal illness benefit. It said this was because    
Mrs As consultant told it that her life expectancy was in years and her treatment should 
control her disease. 
In August  2018  Mrs A asked Aviva  to reconsider her 2016  claim and consider a further claim 
for her more recently diagnosed  brain  tumour. 
Mrs A also said she was misled during the sale of her policy, as she is sure she was told 
illnesses she disclosed wouldnt be covered, but not that the policy didnt  provide  critical 
illness benefit. 
Aviva declined Mrs As claims, saying  her policy was for life cover  only  to pay a lump sum 
if she was to pass away before its expiry  date. And, it confirmed it didnt provide critical 
illness benefit. It said while the lump sum could be paid early  if Mrs A was diagnosed with a 
terminal illness, her 2016 claim  didnt meet the definition for this. And it wouldnt pay a claim 
as a result  of a brain tumour, as the possibility of making a claim for terminal  illness benefit 
ended in February 2017.    
Unhappy with this, Mrs A complained to Aviva. It maintained its position, adding  that Mrs As 
application  made via an independent financial advisor  didnt  request  critical illness  
benefit. 
Mrs A brought her complaint to our service,  saying Avivas outcome was based  on her 
surgeons opinion  in 2016.  And that time had proved him wrong, as her cancer returned.
Our investigator looked into Mrs As complaint. She said Mrs As thyroid cancer diagnosis 
didnt meet the policy definition of a terminal illness, so Aviva  was entitled to turn down her 
claim for terminal  illness benefit in 2016. And, she agreed her brain tumour was diagnosed  
after the right to claim terminal illness benefit  had ended. 
The investigator also said Mrs As policy was sold by an independent financial advisor  (IFA), 
so she couldnt  hold Aviva  responsible for anything that went wrong with the sale. And she 
let Mrs A know  that while the IFA's  no longer running, she can go to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme to make a complaint about  the sale if she wishes to do so.  
Mrs A doesnt agree  with the investigators  opinion. And she still maintains she took the 
policy out through one of Avivas agents.  She thinks  it included critical illness benefit, as she 
recalls mention of an exclusion  for breast cancer. And she thought what  shes  experienced 
would be covered by the policy. 
Ref: DRN24769032So, the complaints  been passed  to me for a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Avivas decisions 
to decline Mrs As claims were reasonable. 
Mrs A was sent her policy schedule,  confirming what she was covered  for, after taking out 
her policy.  This said she had Life Cover  Level, which was payable On death of the Life 
Assured on or before  10/08/2018. If critical illness cover had been selected, then Id expect 
the schedule to reflect this and it doesnt.  Alongside this, Mrs A was sent a copy of the 
details provided  on her application. And theres no mention of critical illness cover being 
requested on it. It did say Mrs A had applied to another company for life or critical illness  
cover; or was about  to in the 12 months before she applied for this policy. So, she may be 
recalling a different  application, when thinking  about  this policy  with Aviva.  But, in any case, 
theres no evidence  Mrs A took out critical illness cover with Aviva, so I wouldnt expect it to 
consider a claim for this. And I cant hold it responsible for what Mrs A feels went wrong with 
the sale of her policy, as Im satisfied the evidence  provided shows  it was sold to her by an 
IFA, as opposed  to one of Avivas agents.  
Mrs A did have terminal illness benefit  as part of her policy cover with Aviva, provided she 
met the criteria set out in the policy for this benefit  to be payable.  This included her having a 
terminal illness more than 18 months  before the policy was due to end. A terminal illness 
was defined in the policy as: 
an advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness  where, in the opinion  of an attending  
consultant and Friends Provident's [Aviva took over the policy  from this company] Chief  
Medical Officer, the life expectancy is no greater than 12 months.
Mrs As consultant gave  his opinion on her illness in 2016 and said:
 There is nothing to suggest that this is particularly advanced or rapidly  progressing  and her 
life expectancy is in years.I do not feel that Mrs As case, the thyroid  malignancy  she has, 
would fulfil the criteria  for terminal illness benefit  at the present time.  
While Mrs A feels her consultants opinion was wrong, Aviva was entitled  to base its decision 
on it, as he was Mrs As treating doctor.  The policy definition required life expectancy to be 
no greater than 12 months at the time of the claim. And it is clear from what  her treating 
consultant said,  this wasnt the case.  This meant  Mrs A didnt meet the criteria  for terminal  
illness benefit and Aviva was entitled  to turn down her claim in 2016.
I appreciate Mrs A has since found  out she has a brain tumour,  but this hadnt  been 
diagnosed at the time of her 2016  claim. And Aviva  could  only consider the claim in relation 
to the illness  she had at this time, which was thyroid  cancer. 
Turning to Mrs As brain tumour. The criteria for terminal illness  benefit  says the terminal 
illness has to be first diagnosed at least  18 months before the expiry date in the policy 
schedule. As Mrs As policy expiry date was 10 August 2018, this means  her brain  tumour  
needed to be diagnosed  on or before 10 February 2017 for her to meet  the criteria for a 
terminal illness benefit for her brain  tumour,  as well as meeting the definition Ive set out 
above. But the tumour was diagnosed in December 2017. So, I think Aviva  was entitled to 
turn down Mrs As claim for terminal illness benefit  as result of this illness as well. 
Ref: DRN24769033Therefore, while  Im really  sorry to hear all that Mrs As experienced,  its not appropriate for 
me to uphold her complaint, as I dont think Aviva has done anything  wrong  in turning down 
her claims. And it didnt sell Mrs A the policy. 
 My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  by 3 February  2020. 
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2476903