K820x#14complaint
Mr L says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  when he took out a 
credit card in 2001 with a bank. A company called NewDay  Ltd is now responsible  for the 
sale so Ill refer mainly to NewDay for consistency.
background
Im sorry  that this complaint has been with us for a while. Part of this is due to a legal 
matter which  affected cases  like the one Mr L has brought  ut Im now able to make  a 
decision. I can also see Mr L has already  been paid some money for the commission  
NewDay received  from selling him the PPI. 
However, our adjudicator  who looked  at this case said the complaint about the PPI being 
mis-sold shouldnt be upheld. Mr L disagreed with this and still thinks  he was mis-sold the 
policy in the first place and so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans  
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im not upholding the mis-sale complaint. 
I dont doubt Mr L genuinely and honestly now feels that the PPI was mis-sold to him and I 
note hes had pay-outs  for other PPI complaints. But NewDays records  show  he took out 
this particular credit card in 2001  with a postal  application. The application  form he used had 
what I consider to be a clear option  about  whether  PPI was something  he wanted to add to 
his new credit card account.
Mr L specifically said in his questionnaire  that he wasnt told the PPI was an option. But this 
sale was a long time ago and Im afraid I dont agree with this. This is because there were 
both yes and no options about adding the cover on the form. He ticked  the first of these 
options and left the second one blank. 
As this was a postal  application, I think Mr L would have filled out the application in his own 
time and at his own pace.  And I dont think anyone  from the business  would have  had an 
involvement in this process.  So I think Mr L would have  been able to easily see there was a 
choice and that he didnt need to have any PPI if he didnt want  to.
Also, from my experience, I think Mr Ls credit card statements would have started to show  
the PPI being  charged on his account  from that time. I can see he ultimately paid quite lot for 
the PPI and because these charges were  usually described on the statements, I think Mr L 
would have been aware the PPI policy had been  set up for him as hed asked. 
On the basis of these  findings, I think Mr L properly gave his consent, back  in 2001.
Ref: DRN29168132This wasnt an advised sale so it was for Mr L himself to check  whether the policy  was right 
for him. NewDays responsibility was limited to providing enough information  for him to make  
that choice.
I can certainly see ways in which the application  form could  have been  set out in a better 
way. But I think its obvious  Mr L wanted this type of cover at the time. I see that the cost of 
the PPI policy  was set out directly beside  where  the choice to have the policy was. He was 
also eligible for the cover and not caught  by any of the major policy  exclusions we tend to 
see. At 75p per £100  of the outstanding credit card balance, the PPI also appears  to have 
been an affordable price  for him. 
Mr L says he already had good sick pay with his job and hes told us that his income was 
substantial. Ive thought  in considerable detail about everything hes told us, including  about 
having medical insurance. But Im afraid  this doesnt necessarily mean  the policy wasnt  of 
use. Losing such an income would, in my view,  represent a significant loss for him and this 
was what the PPI was designed to help with. The PPI could, for example, have reduced his 
credit card balance by 10% a month for up to a year in the event of a successful claim. This 
would have been in addition to any other  means he had at the time. And if Mr L didnt want 
the PPI I think hed have been at liberty to make that choice.
This means  I dont  think NewDay has to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr L. Its already 
paid back some of the cost to him because when the policy was sold it expected to get a 
high level of commission  and profit share;  more  than 50% of the PPI premium. NewDay  
should have told Mr L about  that. To put that right, it has already paid back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  with interest.
I think thats fair in this case.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold. So NewDay  Ltd does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
NewDay Bank Ltd has already paid to Mr L the commission  and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium and so it doesnt need to anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2916813