K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps unhappy about the amount of interest  Tesco  Personal Finance PLC applied to his 
credit card.
background
Mr P says he inadvertently failed  to pay off part of the amount owing on his Tesco  credit  
card. He says its charged him too much interest  and the interest applied on his new 
purchases is immoral, unethical and possibly illegal. He wants a refund.
Tesco said in its final response that full payment didnt reach Mr Ps account by the due date 
and interest had been correctly charged  to his account. The way interest is applied if full 
payment isnt made in time is set out on the reverse of its statements. It wont make  any 
refund as it hasnt made an error.
Our adjudicator felt that this complaint  shouldnt be upheld. She said:
The way interest  is applied is set out on the reverse of the statements sent to Mr P. 
This explains the interest free period  if payments are made  on time and what 
happens if this isnt the case.
As Tesco didnt  receive  full payment  from Mr P by the due date interest was charged 
on all transactions  from the day of debit until payment in full is received. The amount 
of interest applied to Mr Ps account was in line with Tescos  terms and conditions 
and its key product  features.
Tesco hasnt applied  the interest  incorrectly as a result of Mr Ps oversight. And it 
hasnt treated him unfairly. She also cant ask Tesco to change its terms and 
conditions and what it says.
Mr P remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. In summary he questions 
what was said when  he originally opened  his account. And he says the morality  or legality of 
applying the interest  has been ignored. He thinks  the application of interest  to new 
purchases is duplicitous  and isnt mentioned in the most recent terms and conditions.  Mr P 
also says he was offered  a refund  of interest  by Tesco if he didnt bring  his complaint to us.
Tesco says Mr P was offered a refund of interest  as a goodwill gesture  as hed explained he 
underpaid in error. But his concern in this complaint is how the interest  was calculated.
The adjudicator listened to the relevant call and said Mr P wasnt offered  a refund on the 
basis he suggests. Tesco offered to refund interest after Mr P provided  more information but 
he declined  this offer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P questions the morality or legality  of Tesco applying  the interest. And he thinks  the 
application of interest  to new purchases is duplicitous.
Ref: DRN22303812I understand Mr Ps frustration at missing part of the payment due and have no doubt  this 
was a genuine error on his part. 
But Im satisfied that Tesco adequately brought the interest charging information on Mr Ps 
account to his attention. There is a section on the reverse side of the accounts statements 
which summarises what  happens if the balance is paid in full and on time,  or not. Amongst 
other things  it says if full payment isnt made or payment isnt made on time interest will be 
payable including  on purchases from the date they are debited  to his account.  The statement 
also gave an estimate  of the interest  that would be payable if the full amount outstanding 
wasnt paid.
The simple  fact is it was Mr Ps responsibility  to make the full payment  by the due date.  But 
he didnt do so here. As a result Tesco has applied interest as I think  it was reasonably 
entitled to do. 
Tesco offered Mr P a refund of some interest but he declined this offer as he was entitled to 
do. But this doesnt mean  I must  now require  Tesco  to make the same, or a similar, offer 
again. 
Taking everything into account  I think Tesco  has acted in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account  and hasnt  done anything wrong.  And I dont think  I can therefore fairly  or 
reasonably require it to refund any interest to Mr P as hed like.
This service isnt a regulator and we cant require  Tesco to change  it practices,  procedures  
or what it says to its customers. General issues  about how the banking  industry  works  are a 
matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority.
.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Ps strength of feeling and frustration, I dont  see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2230381