K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as part of a total mortgage protection  plan (TMPP).
background
In 2005, during a meeting  at a Halifax branch, Miss H took out TMPP cover alongside a 
further advance  to protect her mortgage repayments in the event of disability and 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint. Miss H disagrees  with our 
adjudicators view. Miss H mainly  says that she wasnt aware that she had PPI and she 
didnt need it as she had other means  to rely on if she couldnt work. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Hs complaint. Heres  why I say this.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Miss H to recall in detail what  was said in 2005.  So what 
Miss H says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. I have to look 
at all the available information and take into account  the wider circumstances. 
I dont know exactly what was discussed when Miss H arranged to sign up to the TMPP. But 
this service has seen examples of various  forms Halifax used to sell the TMPP to customers  
who took out PPI in a Halifax branch around the time Miss H did. We think the TMPP 
paperwork wouldve made it clear  to customers that it was up to them to choose if they 
wanted PPI as part of a TMPP. 
TMPP was taken out when Miss H was arranging a further advance.  Her mortgage  had been 
running for some time without PPI  and PPI wasnt automatically included with the further 
advance. So I think its likely that Miss H wouldve been aware  that it was her choice whether 
to include PPI when  she was taking out additional borrowing on her mortgage account. 
And I can understand why she mightve wanted to have PPI. Her mortgage was a major 
financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. Miss Hs home wouldve been at 
risk if the mortgage payments werent  kept up to date. So, I can see why she mightve  felt 
PPI was useful  even if she hadnt  taken it out originally with her mortgage. 
It looks as if Miss H must  have decided she wanted the PPI because Halifax  then sent her 
paperwork (the welcome pack) in October  2005. This clearly  shows  that Miss H had taken 
out cover  to protect her mortgage  repayments along with critical illness  and life cover. 
The welcome pack included a page headed:  Important Information which made  it clear  
that the PPI was optional. Halifax set out information  explaining that if she decided she didnt 
want it after all, Miss H couldve  changed her mind  about having the cover - without any 
financial penalty. And it provided a cancellation  form she could fill in and send back.
Ref: DRN28354862Its completely understandable if Miss H has forgotten this now. But, taking into account all 
this information,  I think  its likely  that Miss H wouldve known at the time that PPI was 
optional. And it was added to her mortgage when  she chose to take it out. 
Halifax advised Miss H to take out the PPI and it looks like it was suitable  for her based  on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances when the policy was sold.  
Miss H was eligible  for the cover. She had some  sick pay entitlement through work. But this 
doesnt mean PPI wasnt suitable for her. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months 
each time Miss H claimed  successfully. And she couldve made  repeated claims. So PPI 
provided long term protection for her mortgage.  PPI wouldve protected  Miss H if she was 
disabled or too sick to work and paid out on top of any work benefits. Bearing in mind that 
Miss H mightve also had some additional costs if she was too unwell to go back  to work or 
disabled, I think this couldve  been  a useful benefit at a difficult time.  And the policy  wouldve  
also protected Miss H if she lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work.
It doesnt look like Miss H had significant other means to rely on for more than a couple of 
months if she wasnt working. 
Ive taken into account that Miss H mentioned having death  in service benefits   but PPI 
provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different  circumstances. So this doesnt  
affect my decision. 
A redundancy pay out wouldnt have helped if Miss H was off work sick. PPI wouldve paid 
out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got, giving Miss H some additional 
financial security if shed  lost his job.   
Ive taken into account that Miss H says she couldve sold her house  if shed  needed to. But 
having PPI meant she wasnt  at risk of being forced  to sell  perhaps at a time when 
property prices meant she mightnt get as much as she hoped  for. I think  that having  cover in 
place so Miss H couldve  continued to make  her monthly mortgage repayments without 
having to sell her home provided her with a worthwhile benefit. And I think  that wouldve 
been an important  consideration  at the time.  So I think the policy  was suitable for her.
The policy didnt cover existing health  problems. Miss H said that in 2003 she was 
diagnosed with a medical condition which led to her being in hospital  for 2 weeks.  Ive taken 
into account what shes told us about this. And based on what shes told us, it appears 
unlikely that she wouldve  expected to take significant time off work as a result of this 
condition when she arranged her further  advance. 
Miss H might  also not have been  covered for another  long term medical condition she had 
when she took out the policy. But, based on what shes  told us, I dont think Miss H wouldve 
had any reason to expect  at the time that shed be likely to take any significant time off work 
because of her condition. This means  she wouldve had no reason to think shed want to 
claim under the policy for any absence from work related to this. And, even if that mightve  
been something she thought was a possibility, shed  still have had all the other policy  
benefits. So I dont  think better information about  the policys limitations  wouldve affected  
Miss Hs decision to take out PPI. 
Ref: DRN28354863The PPI cost and benefits were set out in the welcome pack Halifax  sent Miss H  so she 
knew what she would be paying for the cover shed chosen. Miss H chose to take out the 
PPI when she didnt  have to and set up payment arrangements at her bank  so it appears 
to me that she was happy to pay the monthly  premium to have PPI at the time. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Miss H wouldve found the PPI cost difficult  to afford  especially 
bearing in mind that she also bought  some  other  insurance offered under the TMPP at the 
same time. 
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Miss H still wouldve decided to buy PPI if shed been better informed as it gave her 
useful and worthwhile  protection in her particular  situation. I dont think having  better  
information wouldve  stopped her buying  it. 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give back  to Miss H some  of the 
commission she paid. The Supreme Court ruling  and new rules and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Miss Hs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Halifax 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Miss H paid for the PPI she had with that 
mortgage.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2835486