K820x#14complaint
Miss H and Mr T are unhappy with Inter Partner Assistance SAs (AXA) decision  to decline 
their claim. 
background
Miss H and Mr T had travel medical insurance  with AXA. In September  2018, they were on 
holiday when Miss H needed urgent medical  care owing  to back pain. Miss H was treated for 
an arthritic flare up and so made a claim on their travel medical policy  with AXA.
AXA declined their claim because it discovered Miss H had suffered with pre-existing 
medical conditions  that shed  failed  to disclose prior to taking the policy out. It said had it 
known about these conditions, it would not have offered them cover.
Our investigator said AXA had declined her claim fairly. She said Miss H and Mr T had an 
obligation to answer health questions carefully  and accurately. And because they didnt, AXA  
was entitled to decline their claim. She also asked  AXA to refund the premium  they paid for 
the policy. 
Miss H and Mr T didnt accept our investigators  findings. They  were  unhappy  with the 
investigators suggestion that they had not answered the health questions  properly. They  
said they took reasonable care when  doing  so and that Miss T had never suffered with this 
condition before. Miss H and Mr T were further  confused about  why AXA was instructed to 
return the premium. They  would like their medical bill paid. 
And so, its for me to make a final decision.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I wont  be upholding their 
complaint. My reasons are largely similar to those already given by our investigator.  But Id 
like to add that;
Miss H and Mr T were asked the following questions prior to purchasing this policy from 
AXA; 1) Within the last five years have you or anyone  you wish to insure on this policy
suffered any medical  condition that has required prescribed medication and/or
treatment including  surgery, tests  or investigations? and;
2) Are you or anyone you wish to insure on this policy awaiting a diagnosis, surgery,
treatment, tests or investigations (or their results) for any medical  condition,  or suffering 
symptoms that have not yet been  discussed  with a doctor?  
Miss Hs medical history, provided  by her GP, revealed that she had suffered with back 
problems for 20  30 years, among other  issues like depression  which she takes long term 
medication for. However,  she had answered no to both questions.   
Ref: DRN24493112Her medical  history shows that within the last five years, Miss H made visits to the doctor  for 
issues with back pain and was referred  for scans in 2013 and three times in 2014. Miss H 
was also prescribed pain medication during one of those visits. 
I would have expected Miss H to share  this with AXA when  it asked her prior to taking the 
policy out. AXA said had it known the full extent of Miss Hs medical history,  it would  not 
have offered her cover. Thats because this type of policy was not suitable for anyone  
suffering with previous medical  conditions.  
I take on board Miss H and Mr Ts arguments  that shed not suffered with an arthritic flare 
up before  and to be clear,  Im not disputing that. But considering what  Ive just explained, 
Miss H and Mr T would  not have  been offered this policy to begin  with had they declared her 
prior medical conditions.  And thats  why I consider it was fair for AXA to decline their claim. 
Our investigator explained that AXA should return  the premium paid by Miss H and Mr T and 
I agree.  Miss H was unsure why this was suggested. The reason for this is because  the 
policy they managed  to obtain was never going to cover  them,  for the reasons Ive 
explained. And so, because  it wasnt  of any use to them, they are entitled to receive  back  the 
money they paid for it. 
This policy was sourced  through  an aggregator comparison site online and had both 
Miss H and Mr T answered the health-related  questions correctly, AXAs policy  would never 
have been available for them to select.  It for these reasons I do not uphold their complaint.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 December 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2449311