K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains QuickClick Loans  Limited  irresponsibly  approved him for a logbook loan. He 
says the loan was unaffordable  to him at the time it was approved. Mr T says he lost out 
financially as a result  because he paid additional  charges and interest.
background
QuickClick approved Mr T for a logbook loan in November 2014.  The capital amount of the 
loan was £900, which was to be repaid over 18 monthly instalments of £175.89. The loan 
was secured against Mr Ts car and had an APR of 471.01%.
Mr T says QuickClick didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks before  it 
approved the loan.  Mr T says at the time of the applying for the loan he was experiencing 
financial difficulties. He says had QuickClick completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks, it wouldve  realised the loan was unaffordable to him. He says he has lost out 
financially as a result  of QuickClicks failures,  because he has had to pay additional  interest 
and charges. Mr T entered into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) in June 2013. 
This IVA is still in force to date. 
QuickClick hasnt been able to provide substantial information in this case. It has told our 
service it ceased trading  in late 2017/early 2018.  The company hasnt yet entered  liquidation 
but says it doesnt  have  information of Mr Ts loan to provide to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, and recommended it be upheld based  on the 
information which was provided. She felt that QuickClick shouldve  completed thorough 
checks to fully understand Mr Ts financial situation before approving him for a loan. She 
highlighted the fact that Mr T had already entered into an IVA prior to applying  for the loan 
with QuickClick, which would suggest Mr T was in financial difficulties. She felt this would be 
enough to suggest QuickClick shouldnt have lent to Mr T, as doing so further increased his 
overall level of debt. 
QuickClick hasnt been able to provide any meaningful response to the view, and Mr T 
wishes to pursue the complaint albeit  he appreciates  the circumstances  surrounding 
QuickClicks status. As no agreement could be reached the matter  has been passed  to me 
to issue a final decision on. 
Before explaining my final decision,  I think it is important that I set out the relevant regulatory  
framework which  applied  to QuickClick  at the time it approved Mr T for the loan. 
Ref: DRN26902212the regulatory framework
QuickClick gave Mr T this loan (2014) while it had interim permission from the industry 
regulator  the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA)  to carry out credit related regulated 
activities. It went on to get full authorisation in 2016.  As explained above it ceased trading in 
late 2017 / early 2018. QuickClick ceased to be regulated in 2018.
QuickClicks interim permission at the time of the loan which  enabled it to provide consumer 
credit activities and its eventual authorisation in 2016, meant  that it was subject  to the FCA 
rules and regulations  from 1 April 2014.  Therefore, the relevant key rules which applied at 
the time are highlighted below. 
FCA Principles for Businesses  (PRIN):
PRIN 1.1.1  says 
The Principles  apply in whole or in part to every  firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The consumer credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  such as QuickClick. The 
most relevant sections  to this complaint are CONC section 5 and CONC section 6.
CONC section 5 sets out the obligations which applied to QuickClick in relation to 
responsible lending. Sections of note are highlighted below. 
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a) the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  is to 
be made; and [Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG] 
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable  period.
Section 5 also sets out considerations for making proportionate assessments when thinking 
about responsible lending.  
CONC 5.2.4G(2) says
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances 
dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the 
potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit  not being sustainable directly relates 
Ref: DRN26902213to the amount of credit granted  and the total charge  for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation.
CONC Section 5.3 covers  the obligations  of the firm when considering affordability in the 
creditworthiness assessment. It also covers the importance of sustainability of any 
repayments. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1)  says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account  more than assessing the customers ability 
to repay  the credit .
CONC 5.3.1G(2) says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps  to assess the customers  ability to 
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner 
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse  
consequences.
In relation to sustainability  CONC  5.3.1G(6)  says: 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated 
credit agreement can be made by the customer:  
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular: 
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments; 
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable period; and 
(c) out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and 
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
And finally, in relation  to the information which is provided, CONC 5.3.7R says: 
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated  credit  agreement 
where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer  has not been 
truthful in completing  the application in relation  to information supplied by the 
customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN26902214In addition to the regulatory framework which Ive set out above,  our service has also set out 
our approach to complaints about  irresponsible and unaffordable lending  on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help me decide Mr Ts complaint.  In relation to the rules, 
regulations, guidance and good  industry  practice, which  applied  at the time, Im satisfied 
there are two overarching  questions which  I need to consider  in this instance. These are:
1.Did QuickClick Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr T would be able to repay these loans in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would those  checks  have shown that Mr T wouldve  been  able to do 
so?
2.Did QuickClick Loans act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
Turning to the first of two questions; as Ive set out above the regulations which  applied  at 
the time,  required QuickClick to carry out an assessment on whether Mr T could repay  any 
loan in sustainable way. These checks are referred  to as an affordability assessment or an 
affordability check. 
In making this affordability assessment, QuickClick  needed to ensure any checks were 
borrower-focused. This means  QuickClick  needed  to consider if any repayments Mr T made 
would cause him any financial difficulties or have any adverse consequences on his 
finances. The checks also needed  to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the 
loan which  was being approved. 
The relevant  rules dont  set out which specific checks it has to complete for them  to be 
reasonable and proportionate. But relevant checks could include things such  as a 
customers income (over the full term of the loan), and their outgoing expenses.  These 
checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the amount of credit  being provided 
including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total length of the term. In 
practice generally this means that the lower the income of an applicant,  or the longer  the 
term of any loan, the more thorough the checks need to be for them to be proportionate to 
the circumstances. 
In addition, any assessment of proportionality  would be higher if there were signs of 
vulnerability on behalf of the borrower (for example bankruptcy) or any reasonably  
foreseeable changes in the borrowers circumstances in future.
Finally, it is also important  to note that the fact Mr Ts loan was a logbook loan, and therefore 
included security in the form of his car as an asset,  didnt remove or anyway lessen the 
obligations which applied  to QuickClick  at the time Mr T applied for the loan. 
In this instance we know  the loan was for £900  and was to be repaid  over 18 months. The 
monthly repayments were  £175.89. We also know that Mr T had entered into an IVA over a 
year before making his application  to QuickClick.  
Ive considered the checks which  were  completed  by QuickClick at the time of the loan to 
see if I consider them  to be reasonable and proportionate. As Ive explained  in the 
background to this complaint, there is limited information from Mr Ts application.  Our 
adjudicator asked for QuickClick to provide  any relevant information from this time, but it 
Ref: DRN26902215responded saying due to the length of time which has passed it doesnt hold any further  
information on file. Mr T has given some verbal testimony which  I have considered as well, 
but again there is little documentary evidence to demonstrate exactly what  checks  if any, 
were completed. 
So, in the absence of full information, I dont feel I can make a finding on whether  QuickClick 
completed reasonable and proportionate  checks. Instead Ive gone on to consider if any 
reasonable and proportionate check wouldve shown  Mr T was able to repay  the loan in a 
sustainable way.
Mr T says at the time of the loan he was in financial difficulties. As previously mentioned, Mr 
T had entered into an IVA which supports him having had recent difficulty maintaining  
payments to previous credit commitments. Ive reviewed this IVA, and its still active on the 
Individual Insolvency  Register. 
Bearing in mind the amount of the payment and the loan being  secured on Mr Ts car, I dont 
think its unreasonable to expect a reasonable and proportionate check to have  looked  at 
any existing credit commitments he had had and how he mightve been managing them.  Im 
satisfied that had these checks been carried out then Mr Ts IVA wouldve been seen. There 
is a chance Mr T may not have disclosed this information to QuickClick, but again 
considering the length of the loan, I would expect QuickClick to have conducted thorough  
checks which therefore shouldve raised  this issue.
I think had QuickClick seen the IVA it ought reasonably  to have realised  Mr T had been in 
financial difficulty and had had difficulty with previous credit  commitments.  Afterall that is the 
very reason why an IVA was in place.  It is likely  that further checks   such as looking at Mr 
Ts bank statements  or checking his credit file  wouldve demonstrated  Mr T wasnt  
managing his finances well. Im satisfied it wouldve also shown he was unable  to meet the 
monthly repayments of the loan without incurring further financial  difficulties,  and thereby 
making the loan unaffordable to him.
Finally, in considering  the second  overarching question,  Ive not seen any evidence which 
suggests QuickClick acted unfairly or unreasonably  in any other way in relation to Mr Ts 
complaint.
So, with all of this in mind, Im satisfied  the loan was lent unfairly  to Mr T, as it wouldve been 
unaffordable to him. 
Turning to the point of redress; normally our service would instruct QuickClick  to put the 
consumer back in the position they wouldve been had no error occurred. That isnt possible 
because ultimately  Mr T has had the benefit of the capital which  QuickClick  has provided. 
However, we would usually ask QuickClick to remove  any interest and charges, and to treat 
any payments which Mr T has made  as a reduction  of the capital amount. We would ask the 
lender to refund any overpayments with interest  and to remove any adverse information on 
Mr Ts credit file. 
Mr T is also in an IVA, so it is also right I remind him of any implications and obligations he 
needs to follow should any redress be forthcoming from QuickClick.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN26902216I require QuickClick Loans  Limited to:
Remove any interest and charges applied to Mr Ts account from when it was 
opened;
Treat any payments that Mr T has made  as a reduction of the principle amount;
If this results in Mr T having paid more than what he was initially  lent, then any extra 
should be treated  as an overpayment  and refunded  to him plus 8% simple interest on 
this amount from date of payment to date of settlement ;
If an outstanding  balance remains on Mr Ts account after all adjustments have been 
made, then QuickClick  Loans Limited  needs to come to suitable repayment  plan with 
him to pay off the remaining  amount;
Remove any adverse  information on Mr Ts credit file in relation to this loan.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Tom Whittington
ombudsman
HM Revenue  & Customs  requires QuickClick Loans Limited to take off tax from this interest.  
QuickClick Loans Limited must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
Ref: DRN2690221