K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains Totemic  Limited trading as Payplan (Payplan) withdrew his Debt  
Management Plan (DMP) without  notice.
background
Mr G brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with the response  hed received from 
Payplan to his concerns. Payplan  told him he was well within his rights to decide not to 
pursue the Debt  Relief Order (DRO)  theyd recommended to him but, taking into account 
his current debt level and available  surplus  income it would take him until March  2092 to 
complete paying  off his debts in the DMP. They said this wasnt a realistic  time frame for the 
DMP and not the best debt solution  for Mr G to repay his debts. They said there appeared to 
be no change in Mr Gs circumstances for some years now,  and they had advised previously 
that a DRO or even  Bankruptcy would be the best debt solution to get Mr G debt free in the 
shortest time frame  possible. Based on the information they held about his circumstances, 
Payplan proceeded to close Mr Gs file and suggested he contacted his creditors direct and 
agreed a repayment  plan with them.
Mr G told us he thought  Payplan had acted unreasonably when cancelling his DMP. He 
thought their actions  discriminated against people with low incomes when they were  
supposed to be a company helping people struggling with debt.  He told us he couldnt afford 
the fees for the Debt Relief Order (DRO) suggested by Payplan.  Mr G also thought  one of 
the case handlers had a vendetta against  him.
Our investigator thought Payplan  hadnt  been unreasonable in their actions. He thought 
theyd acted in line with the Financial  Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules on DMPs and that 
theyd also offered Mr G alternative  solutions.  So he didnt  uphold the complaint.
Mr G was unhappy with the view and asked for an ombudsman to review  his case. He 
agreed it was unreasonable to stay in a DMP for 74 years  but equally unreasonable to 
assume his circumstances would not change in that time either. He thought it would have 
been more reasonable  for Payplan to review  this in the summer when it was easier  
financially as there wasnt  the pressure of heating bills. But this didnt happen as Payplan 
ended the DMP  in February 2019  without his consent. And he said the real issue  here was 
that the ending of the DMP without his consent  left Mr G to deal with creditors  himself.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to hear of the difficult 
circumstances Mr G finds himself in. I appreciate  he feels our investigator hasnt thoroughly  
investigated his complaint  and thinks he hasnt been  impartial.  I want  to assure  Mr G Ive 
looked at everything  afresh before reaching an independent view. But Im not persuaded  this 
is a complaint I can fairly and reasonably uphold.
Its to Mr Gs credit that he contacted his creditors direct in 2018 and reached an agreement 
with them.  Its clear  that he has strong feelings about this complaint. Hes provided detailed 
submissions in support  of his view which I can confirm  Ive read and considered  in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr G will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point  raised, but to set out 
Ref: DRN25158992my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them. The investigator has given a full summary of 
the background to this complaint in his letter giving  his opinion.  So I shant repeat that here.  
The information Ive received from Payplan  satisfies me that their actions arent contrary  to 
the FCAs guidelines on DMPs. Those  guidelines  recommend if it becomes clear that the 
current course of action isnt producing the effects which  are in the customers best interests, 
the possibility  of withdrawing  from a DMP can be considered. Mr Gs told us when Payplan 
reviewed his account and suggested a DRO he told them he couldnt afford the fees. But I 
cant see that hes explored the option  of paying by instalments as offered by Payplan. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Gs point that his circumstances could change for the better in the 
future and he viewed the DMP  as a short term measure, at the point the decision was made, 
it had been in place for over seven years, having  been set up in September 2011. Payplan 
have to make decisions  based on the evidence before them  at the time of a review.  And, as 
far as I can see, there was no evidence before Payplan to support  any change in 
circumstances. 
When Payplan wrote to Mr G on 14 November 2018 after his annual  review recommending  
the DRO they told him I've explainedwhy I believe  a DRO is the right solution for you, 
along with details of any other options  I considered for you. They  give the reason for 
recommending the DRO as You told me that you are not expecting  your circumstances to 
improve and that they didnt think the DMP was sustainable. So, even  though its clear Mr G 
didnt want a DRO, from everything Ive seen  I cant say it was unreasonable for Payplan to 
take the view they did and to bring the DMP to an end.
In past reviews Payplan have considered a DRO but have allowed the DMP to continue  with 
the payment level remaining at £7. Theyve also suggested Mr G contact creditors direct  and 
signposted him to various debt relief charities. And in respect of the DRO they told him the 
fee  which  Mr G found unaffordable  was payable by instalments. I think  those measures 
demonstrate forbearance and flexibility on Payplans  part. And I cant  agree with Mr G that 
altering the timing of the review to the summer would have made  a difference to the situation  
- as his heating costs  would resume  the following winter - so any increase in income then 
wouldnt be permanent and sustainable.  So, overall, I think Payplan  have acted  in line with 
their responsibilities. And Im afraid, in the evidence  before me, theres nothing to support Mr 
Gs concerns of poor service or any personal  vendetta from the staff at Payplan.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
Ref: DRN25158993ombudsman
Ref: DRN2515899