K820x#14complaint
C, a claims management company, has complained  on behalf of Ms T about the delay by 
Society of Lloyds in settling a claim under her commercial insurance  policy  following a 
break-in and about the settlement it offered her.
background
On 10 October 2017 Ms T made a claim to Lloyds.  She said a gang  had broken  into her pub 
using a crowbar causing much damage  to the premises. They also stole a set of keys, 
jewellery and cash. Ms T was on holiday at the time.
Ms T came back from holiday a few days later.  She sent claim details to Lloyds on 
17 October. It sent a loss adjuster to inspect  the premises on 24 October. By the time of the 
visit the repair works were  almost  finished.  The works cost £10,150 excluding  VAT.
Lloyds accepted the claim. But it said it wouldnt pay Ms Ts repair  costs  in full because  in 
some respects Ms T hadnt had a like for like repair but improved what shed had originally. 
In May 2018  it offered  Ms T a contribution of £4,240, later increased to £4,745.
Ms T complained to Lloyds. It didnt increase the settlement offer but paid Ms T £200 
compensation for delays on its part.
Ms T brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt think 
there was enough  evidence  to say the offer by Lloyds  was unreasonable.
As C on behalf of Ms T didnt agree, the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ts policy  covers her damaged property for the full cost of repair  to a condition  
equivalent to or substantially  the same as but not better or more extensive than its condition 
when new. 
When a policyholder makes a claim,  its their responsibility to show that an insured event (in 
this case, the burglary) most likely  caused the damage. The difficulty here is that most of the 
repairs had been  done by the time Lloyds loss adjuster visited  the premises even though the 
visit was within a short time of the claim being  notified. The photos taken on Ms Ts behalf  
showing the damage are no longer available. I need  to decide whether Ms T has shown its 
more likely than not that all the damage shes claimed for happened  as a result  of the 
burglary.
Damage was done to the side gate,  external  door, internal kitchen door, internal office  door, 
partition wall and door to landing and a bedroom door. Ill look at each of these in turn.
side gate
Ms Ts builder said this was damaged  beyond repair and he replaced it with what  he 
described as an extremely heavy duty steel door . On the other  hand  Lloyds  said there was 
no visible damage to the gate. The photo that Ive seen of the gate on top of a skip appears  
Ref: DRN24303132to support Lloyds view.  So I dont think it treated Ms T unreasonably in refusing to pay the 
cost of a new gate as a contribution to the cost of replacing it with something better. 
external and internal kitchen doors
Ms T claimed  £640 and £520 for these. Ms Ts builder described  the external door as 
damaged but didnt  list it as damaged beyond repair. He said the internal door had been  
damaged beyond repair. Again Lloyds didnt agree that either of them had been damaged 
beyond repair  and offered a £500 contrib ution  for each door. Unfortunately the only photos 
available of these  doors arent clear. In the absence of any evidence showing that they had 
been damaged  beyond  repair, Im not persuaded that this was an unreasonable offer.
internal cellar door and frame
Ms T claimed  £620 a new cellar fire door and frame. Theres  no reference to this door being 
damaged in the loss adjusters report and I havent seen any photos showing  the damage to 
it. Unfortunately for Ms T I dont  think  shes  shown  that this door was damaged as a result of 
the burglary. So I cant say that Lloyds  treated  her unfairly in refusing to pay the costs she 
claimed in respect  of this.
landing glass partition and door
The intruders smashed their way through a glass partition door and smashed glass  panels 
on the first floor landing.  Ms T paid £2,900 for a new fire door and frame, timber  studding,  
plastering and a new ceiling. Allowing for the fact that some of this was better than Ms T had 
had before, C claimed £2,750 for these works.
By the time the loss adjuster visited, the glass wall had been removed and plasterboards 
already fitted to the walls.  Lloyds said all that was needed  was a new door and the glass 
panels could have been repaired. It offered £1,000  for this. Again I havent seen any 
evidence that the more  extensive work which Ms T had carried out was necessary to repair  
damage caused by the break-in. So Im not persuaded Lloyds  offer was unfair.
bedroom and office doors
Ms T paid £620 and £460 to replace these.  Lloyds offered a contribution  of £700  in total 
towards these. I havent seen sufficient evidence to show that they were damaged beyond  
repair. In light of this I think the contribution of £700  seems fair.
I appreciate that this will be disappointing  for Ms T. But unfortunately for her it was her 
decision to start repairing the property before the loss adjuster had visited  and any 
settlement had been agreed.  Ive listened  to her initial call reporting the claim when she 
referred to repair  work starting. She was told that she should  make the building  secure 
regardless of the insurance position  and take photos  of the damage before any repairs 
began. If shed done that and kept the photos, her claim  could have been more  
straightforward. 
Ive also looked  at how Lloyds handled  Ms Ts claim. There were some  delays on its part but 
largely the reason it took over a year to settle  was because it was a relatively complex  claim 
which had to be settled  based on very limited evidence. Overall I think  the sum of £200 is fair 
and reasonable to compensate Ms T for the trouble and upset caused by delays on Lloyds 
part.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN24303133Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2430313