K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Great Lakes  Insurance SE unfairly avoided  his buildings insurance  
policy following a claim he made for subsidence damage.
Mr C is being represented in bringing  this complaint.  But for ease Ive referred  to all the 
representatives comments  and actions as being  those  of Mr C.
background
In February 2019  Mr C contacted Great Lakes to report damage to his property, namely  
cracks on some of the walls.  He thought  the damage might  have  been  caused by 
subsidence. 
When Great  Lakes asked  when the problem had started, it said Mr C had said thered been 
cracking in the property  since the early 2000s.  Great Lakes said this hadnt been disclosed 
when the policy was taken out. It said Mr C had failed to provide  answers in line with the 
requirement of his policy, so it was avoiding the policy from the start, which  was August 
2018.
Mr C complained to Great  Lakes. He said there were cracks in the property, but any 
subsidence damage had only happened  recently.  He said in 2018, hed made a claim for 
storm damage to his roof. He said a loss adjuster reviewed the claim, and Mr C says he 
asked the loss adjuster whether he thought  cracks near the roof of his property could have 
been caused by the storm.  Mr C said he was told that they hadnt been caused by the storm, 
and they hadnt been caused by subsidence.  So he said he hadnt answered any questions 
incorrectly.
Great Lakes didnt agree  to change  its mind, it said Mr C had also carried  out remedial works 
to the property which hadnt been disclosed.  So Mr C complained to our service.
In February 2021  I issued  a provisional decision, in it I said:
The starting point  in cases of this nature is the law. An insurer  can take certain 
action, like avoiding a policy,  if a qualifying misrepresentation has been made in line 
with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA). A 
misrepresentation is made when an answer to a question asked by Great Lakes 
hasnt been answered as it should have.
I havent been provided with a copy of Mr Cs original application. But Great Lakes 
said it had asked three questions when Mr C took out the insurance:
Any diagonal cracks or bulges in the internal or external  walls  of the property? 
Free from underpinning, remedial action  or any other structural  support within  
50
metres? 
Free from subsidence,  heave  or landslip within 50 metres? 
Ref: DRN22627872Its recorded Mr Cs answer  to the first question as no and the answer to the second 
and third as yes.
Its not clear from the evidence given to this service  which question Great Lakes 
thinks Mr C has answered incorrectly, so Ive considered all three.
For the first question Great Lakes think Mr Cs answer of no is incorrect, and that Mr 
C should have  answered yes. So it thinks he made a misrepresentation. Mr C says 
he didnt misrepresent the state of the property. Ive thought about what  the question  
asks, and I think its clear. But from everything Ive seen on file, Im not satisfied  Mr C 
has misrepresented  his property when taking  out his insurance.  From  what  Ive seen, 
Great Lakes hasnt been to   Mr Cs property, so there is no report on whether there 
are diagonal  cracks or bulges in the property. Theres also no report  on how long any 
damage might have been there for. 
It seems  Great Lakes  has based  its decision to decline the claim and avoid  the policy 
solely on Mr Cs phone  call to report the damage. I havent been provided with a copy  
of the calls Mr C made, but a transcript has been provided. In the first call, Mr C is 
asked when the incident happened,  and what date. And he explains that in the early 
2000s there was a lot of building work going  on near his home, and it made cracks 
appear in his property.  It seems to me that this is the basis on which  Mr Cs policy  
has been avoided.  But Im not satisfied  Mr C made a misrepresentation at the point 
of sale based  on this call alone.
Mr C has said there  were  some cracks in his property, but Great  Lakes hasnt shown 
that Mr C had diagonal cracks or bulges  in his property when he took out the 
insurance in 2018.  
It seems  to me from Great  Lakes response  to Mr Cs claim,  that he was expected to 
disclose any cracking,  of any kind, in his property  at the point of sale.  But thats  not 
what he was asked  when  taking out the insurance. So Great Lakes hasnt done 
enough to show  Mr C made a misrepresentation.
Great Lakes has said Mr C had carried out some remedial work  on the property. So I 
think it also believes Mr C didnt answer  the second  question correctly. Its not clear 
to me what  this is based on, but Mr C has referenced having his house  plastered in 
the 1990s. Im not satisfied this is enough  to say Mr C has had remedial works for 
subsidence carried out on his property. I consider this could have been for other 
reasons, such as decorating. So Im also not satisfied he answered this question  
incorrectly.
Ive also reviewed the answer to the third question,  but I cant see anything from 
Great Lakes that persuades me that the house  has suffered from subsidence in the 
past. 
So based  on everything Ive seen, Mr C hasnt made any misrepresentations and I 
think Great  Lakes has acted unfairly in avoiding Mr Cs policy back  to 2018. Great 
Lakes should  remove any record of the policy being  avoided from any internal and 
external databases.  It should reinstate Mr Cs policy and consider Mr Cs claim for 
damage caused by subsidence, in line with the usual  terms of the policy.
Mr C has told this service  hes been unable to find a policy  elsewhere,  so his home 
has been uninsured for some time. I think the worry of not having  his home insured 
Ref: DRN22627873has caused unnecessary distress  and inconvenience to him. So I also think it should 
pay Mr C £400 compensation. 
Mr C responded to say he accepted the provisional  decision  and didnt make  any further 
comments.
Great Lakes also accepted. But it made  the following points:
When Mr Cs policy was cancelled, he was refunded the premium of £433.02. It said 
this would need to be returned  by Mr C, or it could  offset  the compensation of £400 
leaving Mr C with just £33.02 to repay.
Whilst it can consider the claim under the 2018  policy, Mr C wouldnt have  been  able 
to renew with Great Lakes after the policy ended in 2019 as it was no longer working 
with the broker  Mr C had used. But it would remove any record  of the policy being 
avoided from Mr Cs record which would mean he wouldnt have to declare it and he 
should be able to take out insurance elsewhere
It said that whilst it accepted to reconsider the claim, it wanted  Mr C to be clear that 
doesnt necessarily  mean the subsidence  claim will be successful.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As no party has provided any further 
evidence on the outcome  of the decision, I dont propose to depart from what I set out in my 
provisional decision. But to conclude the complaint Ive responded to Great Lakes points 
below.
I think it is reasonable Mr C should  pay for the policy since  it is now being  reinstated.      
Great Lakes has said the premium was returned to Mr C when the policy  was cancelled, so 
Im satisfied he wont be paying for the same policy twice. So Mr C will have to pay Great 
Lakes a sum of £433.02. If he wants to, he can ask Great Lakes to offset the £400 
compensation that it has agreed to pay, so that hell only owe £33.02. So I will leave this to 
Mr C and Great Lakes to agree. 
In my provisional decision I said Mr Cs cover should be reinstated, which Great  Lakes has 
agreed to, but only up until August 2019, which is at the point where  it could no longer offer 
cover through Mr Cs broker. I have considered that I think Mr C likely have had cover  but for 
Great Lakes mistake in avoiding the policy. But so far, I cant see Mr C has lost out by not 
having insurance since 2019.  So Great Lakes doesnt have  to continue to insure  Mr C 
beyond August 2019. 
Great Lakes has accepted that it will update Mr Cs records to remove reference to the policy 
being avoided.  So Mr C doesnt have to declare this when taking out insurance  elsewhere. 
But it will be for Mr C to find his own insurance  for his property for the future.
Ive noted Great Lakes comments about the resolution to this complaint. So I want  to 
reiterate to both parties  that by requiring Great Lakes to reconsider the claim, this doesnt 
necessarily mean the claim  for subsidence will be accepted by Great  Lakes. It needs an 
opportunity to assess the damage being  claimed  for. Should Mr C encounter any further  
Ref: DRN22627874issues with Great Lakes  following its review  of the damage to his property, this would need 
to be looked into as a new complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SE needs to:
Reinstate Mr Cs avoided policy from 2018/2019, subject to Mr C paying  the premium
Remove any reference to his avoided policy from any internal and external database
Pay £400 compensation to Mr C (to be offset against Mr Cs policy premium of 
£433.02 should Mr C choose this option)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2021.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2262787