K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about loans  granted to him by Elevate Credit International Limited 
trading as Sunny (Sunny or the lender).  Mr M says he could not afford to repay these 
loans and ended up relying on them to get by. He says that he got stuck in a borrowing cycle 
and that it was a really  stressful  time for him.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision on 24 February 
2020. I wont repeat its content here but a copy is attached to, and forms part of, this 
decision. 
In summary,  I provisionally found that Sunny was irresponsible to have continued to offer 
Mr M credit through his credit facility beyond  17 October 2014 and that it was also 
irresponsible when  it agreed his final two loans.
I gave both parties some time to come  back to me with anything  else they wanted me to 
consider as part of this complaint. Neither  party has done so.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As before, I have also taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good  industry practice at the time. Having done 
so, I am not departing  from my provisional findings and am continuing to uphold  Mr Ms 
complaint in part. 
what Sunny should  do to put things right
Ive found that Sunny  was irresponsible  to have agreed further  drawdowns  on Mr Ms credit 
facility from the 17 October  2014  onwards. It was also irresponsible of it to have agreed to 
provide loans 6 and 7 (as set out in the table in my provisional decision). In order  to put 
things right for Mr M, Sunny should
-refund all interest  and charges Mr M paid on capital drawn down through  his credit  
facility from and including the 17 October 2014;  and
-refund all interest  and charges he paid on loans 6 and 7; and
-pay interest on all these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to 
the dates of settlement; and
-remove any adverse information about the credit  facility from 17 October 2014; and
-remove all information about loans 6 and 7 from Mr Ms credit file because  any 
information recorded about  these  loans is adverse.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I am partly upholding Mr Ms 
complaint against  Elevate Credit International  Limited trading  as Sunny.
Ref: DRN21732202Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN21732203COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr M has complained about loans granted to him by Elevate Credit  International Limited trading  as 
Sunny (Sunny  or the lender). Mr M says he could not afford to repay  these loans and ended  up 
relying on them  to get by. He says that he got stuck in a borrowing cycle and that it was a really  
stressful time for him.
background
Sunny agreed seven  loans for Mr M from April 2014 to February  2016.  The first loan was an open-
ended credit facility  with a £425 limit. The remaining six loans were short  term loans from £50 to £400 
to be repaid over 14 month terms.  The below  table sets out some of the information Sunny has 
provided about these loans.
No. Start  End AmountTerm 
(months)Contractual 
repayment
1 04/04/2014 30/03/2015 *£425 5 £106
2 24/08/2015 29/01/2016 £250 14 £36
3 17/09/2015 30/10/2015 £50 14 £7
4 21/09/2015 30/10/2015 £50 14 £7
5 09/11/2015 01/07/2016 £200 14 £27
6 24/11/2015 16/09/2016 £300 14 £43
7 05/02/2016 16/09/2016 £400 14 £55
* This was an open-ended credit facility with a £425 limit
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint in part and recommended  that Sunny refund the interest and 
charges he paid for loans 6 and 7. Sunny  didnt agree with this recommendation  and so the complaint 
has come  to me, as an ombudsman,  for review and final decision. If 
Mr M accepts  my decision,  it will be legally binding  on the parties.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending  including  all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice   on our website. Ive 
followed that approach here. 
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  was the regulator when Mr M took out his loans. The relevant 
rules and guidance set out in its Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) said that for all loans Sunny 
needed to check that Mr M could afford to meet his repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant 
Mr M being able to meet  his repayments out of his normal income without having to go without or 
borrow further. Sunny  was also required  to monitor Mr Ms repayment record and take appropriate 
action if there were signs of potential repayment difficulties.
The regulations werent prescriptive about  what checks Sunny needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether  or not Mr M would be able to meet his repayments  sustainably. But the 
regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the same checks 
might not be the appropriate  thing to do for all consumers,  or for the same consumer in all 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN21732204In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id expect  a 
lender to seek more  assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
-the lower a consumers income (reflecting  that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
-the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
-the greater the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become,  or was becoming,  unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.  
Sunny said that it asked  Mr M for information about his income and expenses  each time he applied 
for credit, though it hasnt recorded an expenditure figure from the time of Mr Ms first loan application. 
The lender says Mr Ms monthly  income  varied from £1,300  to £1,500 and his monthly expenses from 
£545 to £938, including variable credit commitment repayments. These figures  might suggest  that the 
loans in question  were affordable for Mr M, given the amount he needed to repay  each month. 
Sunny also said that it checked Mr Ms credit  record through a third-party  credit reference agency and 
has provided  some of the information it obtained in this way. It says that it compared what Mr M said 
he repaid each month on existing credit commitments and what  it could  see from the credit file, taking 
the higher figure  where there  was a discrepancy. Ive looked through  the credit file information  and I 
cant see that there  was anything in it that should have caused  concern  for Sunny. It does seem  that 
Mr M had around £5,300 of existing  unsecured  credit when he first asked Sunny for a loan, but I cant 
see any evidence  of borrowing from other short term lenders, for example, or poor credit 
management. So, based on the information I have, I dont think  Sunny was irresponsible to lend to 
Mr M when he first applied for a loan.
However, Sunny needed to monitor  how Mr M used this facility. The credit agreement  shows an 
example repayment schedule with five repayments of £151  should Mr M draw  down his full limit of 
£425. Mr M first took out £300 under this facility but went on to drawn down a further nine times 
eventually paying it all off almost a year later. I think Sunny ought to have  been concerned about the 
way Mr M used the account   within a few months he was making repayments and drawing down up 
to his limit again after a few weeks. It seems likely to me that he had to borrow  again to fill the gap the 
previous repayment left in his finances.
When Mr M had done  this a number  of times, Sunny should have realised  that it was likely  he was 
having problems  managing his money and should not have agreed further credit for him. I think that 
point came when Mr M asked  for his seventh drawdown  on 17 October 2014, over six months after he 
took out the facility. He hadnt made any inroads  into paying  down his balance  at this stage  yet went  
on to draw down twice  again.
Mr Ms second loan was taken out about five months after his running  credit account  closed, about 
eight months  after hed last borrowed. Given he would now be potentially indebted to Sunny for a 
further 14 months I think the lender ought  to have gathered some  evidence to verify what Mr M was 
telling it about his income and expenditure. And I think it should have done the same when he applied 
for his later loans. Sunny  recorded that Mr M was spending almost  half his monthly  income repaying  
existing debt when he applied for loans 3 and 4, which  I think ought to have prompted further concern. 
However, I dont know what Sunny would have found out, had it carried out further checks, because I 
dont have enough information about Mr Ms financial circumstances to conclude  it wouldnt have 
agreed credit for him at that point. 
That said, I think when Mr M asked for his sixth loan at the end of November 2015 Sunny ought to 
have realised that he wasnt  likely to be able to repay this loan or any further credit sustainably. Mr M 
had taken out four loans since  August, two of which  were still running. Hed first taken  out £300 with 
Ref: DRN21732205the lender and was now taking out another £300  (with an existing balance of about  £400) more than a 
year and a half later. This doesnt suggest to me that Mr M was borrowing to meet a short term issue 
but rather  that he had an ongoing need for credit. I think Mr M lost out when Sunny agreed loan 6 and 
went on to agree loan 7 because  these loans prolonged his indebtedness and allowed  him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short term use over an extended period of time. This was likely to be 
seen negatively by other lenders and potentially kept Mr M in the market  for high cost loans. 
what Sunny should do to put things  right
Sunny was irresponsible to have agreed further drawdowns on Mr Ms credit facility from the 17 
October 2014 onwards.  It was also irresponsible of it to have agreed to provide loans 6 and 7. In 
order to put things  right for Mr M, Sunny should
-refund all interest  and charges Mr M paid on capital  drawn down through his credit facility from 
and including the 17 October 2014; and
-refund all interest  and charges he paid on loans 6 and 7; and
-pay interest on all these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the dates  
of settlement;  and
-remove  any adverse information about the credit facility from 17 October 2014; and
-remove  all information about  loans  6 and 7 from Mr Ms credit file because any information 
recorded about  these  loans is adverse.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Sunny  to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give Mr M a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
I am minded  to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and require Elevate Credit International Limited  
(trading as Sunny)  to put things right as Ive set out above.
Ill wait two weeks to see if either party  has anything further to add  before considering my decision 
on this complaint once more.
Ref: DRN2173220