K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  about the actions  of Metro Bank Plc when she was the victim of a scam.  
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. In October  2018  Miss B was unfortunately the victim  of a scam. The 
email address of a venue she was booking  had been hacked. As a result of this Miss B paid 
what she believed to be a genuine invoice, but the money went  to the scammers account, 
rather than to the venue. 
As soon  as Miss B became aware of this she informed her own bank N who tried to recover 
the money from the third partys account with Metro Bank. But by the time this happened,  
her money had already been  withdrawn.  
Miss B complained to Metro Bank, she was unhappy  that they allowed a scammer to open 
and operate an account with them. She thinks Metro Bank  should  refund her and pursue 
their account  holder  for the money.
Metro Bank  didnt uphold the complaint, they explained theyd followed their procedures 
when opening  the account,  including checking  the ID of the account holder.  They  also said 
that theyd acted promptly as soon as they were  aware of the scam and werent  liable for 
Miss Bs loss.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He didnt think  we could look into all 
aspects of Miss Bs complaint within our jurisdiction rules. And for what we could consider, 
he didnt think it should be upheld. Miss B doesnt  accept this and so the matter came to me 
for a decision.
Ive already issued  a jurisdiction decision explaining which aspects of Miss Bs complaint our 
service is able to consider. When looking at the merits of the complaint  I shared  with both 
parties that whilst I mostly agreed with our investigator, I thought a fair resolution  would  
include Metro Bank  providing  Miss Bs bank  with the name and address of their customer  
upon receipt of such a request from her bank. Metro Bank accepted  and agreed to this. 
Miss B disagrees she still thinks  Metro  Bank  are responsible and should reimburse her and 
then pursue their customer for her loss. 
Now everyone has had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
deviate from the outcome Ive previously outlined.  Let me explain why. 
As my jurisdiction  decision explained,  Miss B made  the payment in October  2018,  so the 
changes made to our rules in January 2019 that allow me to consider a wider range  of 
complaints about  the actions of a business receiving payments like this, dont apply.    
Ref: DRN29565882And so in the circumstances of this complaint Im limited to considering only those  aspect of 
Miss Bs complaint which relate  to Metro Banks obligations under regulation  90(3)  of the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017.  This regulation  says:
The payees payment  service provider must co-operate  with the payers  payment service  
provider in its efforts to recover  the funds, in particular  by providing to the payers payment 
service provider all the relevant  information  for the collection of the funds.
The Financial Conduct Authority provided some  comments  on what the requirement  to co-
operate might mean in practice in its December 2018 Policy Statement  PS18/22   
Authorised Push Payment fraud  extending the jurisdiction of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service. It said:
Pursuant to regulation 90(3) of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), a receiving 
PSP is required to co-operate with the payers PSP in its efforts to recover  the funds, 
particularly by providing all relevant  information to the payers PSP.  This co-operation  
between PSPs could  involve  participating in industry  arrangements relating to the recovery  
of the funds (such as the credit  payment  recovery process). We would expect the relevant 
information provided to include the payees name and an address at which documents can 
effectively be served  to that person.
In the circumstances of this complaint  Miss Bs bank  N were her payment service  provider. 
And Metro  Bank were the payment service  provider in relation to their customer, the payee, 
when placing Miss Bs money  onto their customers account. 
Taken as a whole, the impact of the above regulation  means that I consider  Metro Bank 
ought fairly and reasonably to have  co-operated fully with N, to try to help them recover  the 
money on behalf of their customer  - Miss B. So I have considered whether they did.
Metro Bank  have evidenced that Miss Bs payment for £2,125  was credited to their 
customers account on 30 October  2018. Later  the same  day there were two cash 
withdrawals from their customers  account. One was over the counter in branch for £2,500  
and the other via a cash machine for £300. So by the end of the same day, all Miss Bs 
funds had been withdrawn from the account. 
I sympathise with Miss Bs situation  as with the type of scam she was a victim of it can take 
a while  to realise what has happened. I dont think Miss B has lacked diligence or is 
responsible for any delay  and as soon as she became aware of the scam she took the 
appropriate action.  
Metro Bank  were first informed that Miss Bs payment was as a result of a scam on 16 
November 2018,  long after her money  had already been withdrawn. Based on this, I dont 
think Miss Bs ability to recover the money  she lost as a result of the scam  was negatively 
impacted by the actions of Metro Bank  it was already gone  before they were  aware  there 
was a problem.  
Miss B thinks Metro Bank should pursue their customer  to try to recover her money and then 
refund her. I can understand why she says this, but I dont think  the obligation  to cooperate  
with Miss Bs bank  in their efforts to recover money under regulation 90(3) of the PSRs  
extends to this.
Ref: DRN29565883Following our services involvement, Metro  Bank  have agreed to supply the name and 
address of their customer to N, upon receipt  of a request  from N that they do so.  Ive not 
seen evidence that N had requested that information  prior to Miss B raising her complaint to 
Metro Bank.  So I dont think Metro Bank have acted unreasonably in not providing that 
information previously.  
If Miss Bs bank  requests that information, it will enable her to consider legal action against 
Metro Banks customer to recover her loss. Im not able to provide advice on this matter; it is 
a decision for Miss B and she may wish to seek independent legal advice. But if that is 
something she wishes to explore, she will need  to instruct N to ask Metro Bank for its 
customers information, unless shes already  done  so. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, Im satisfied that Metro  Bank have acted fairly in 
the circumstances. So Im not upholding this complaint or making an award.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2956588