K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
Mrs H applied for a credit  card through a branch application in June 1998. The PPI was 
added during a call with Barclays a couple  of weeks later.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays has provided Mrs Hs original application  that she completed in branch  and PPI 
wasnt selected at this time. Barclays says it was added a couple of weeks  later during a call.
Barclays no longer  has a copy of the call recording and doesnt have any sample scripts that 
their advisers may have followed.  But this isnt unusual as the sale took place over 20 years  
ago. 
Where theres only limited information and disagreement about what  happened I have to 
look at all the available information and decide  what I think is most likely. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Ive seen enough  information overall to be able to uphold 
Mrs Hs complaint that the policy was added to her credit  card account without her 
knowledge or consent. And on balance, taking  everything into account,  I think its more  likely 
Barclays made Mrs H aware that the policy was optional - as Mrs H didnt take out PPI 
initially when  she completed the application  form. I think its likely that Mrs H, during her call 
with Barclays, decided  she wanted to have the benefits the policy could  offer - and the policy 
was added to her account at her request when she chose to buy it.
Barclays says it would  have recommended  the PPI to Mrs H and it seems  to have been right 
for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. 
Mrs H says she received good sick pay from her employer  if she was unable  to work 
because of an accident or sickness. She says she would have received six months  full pay 
followed by six months  half pay and didnt need the policy. But the PPI, at the point of Mrs H 
needing to claim  for an accident or sickness or if she lost her job, would have  covered  10% 
of the outstanding balance. And it would have continued to pay this for up to 12 months  per 
claim. So I think Mrs H would  have  found the policy useful especially when Mrs Hs sick pay 
was reduced to half pay. The policy also had life cover. So I cant fairly say that the advisers  
recommendation was unsuitable.
Ref: DRN20740412Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But she likely  chose  to take out the policy  - so it looks  like she wanted this type 
of cover.  And Mrs H doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main  things the 
policy didnt cover  and based  on what I know about her circumstances as I have said 
above, it looks like the policy  could have been useful to her. So I dont  think  better 
information would have stopped her buying  it. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mrs H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
I note that Mrs H has previously been in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement. It is up to 
Mrs H to let her insolvency  practitioner know that she has received some  compensation as 
the insolvency practitioner could have an interest in it. If Mrs H doesnt let her insolvency 
practitioner know it may have implications  for her.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs H any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2019  .
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2074041