K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Cumberland Building Society  (CBS) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy in 2007  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M only for accident, sickness,  and unemployment   subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £800 a month  towards Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £35.70 a month. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a process  operator according to his mortgage 
application, but he told us he was a factory worker. As his mortgage application is from the 
time of the sale, I think its more  likely  to be right.  He has told us he was entitled to three  
months full sick pay, redundancy pay and death  in service cover through  his employer. 
Documents from the time of sale indicate he had 13 weeks full sick pay followed  by 13 
weeks half sick pay  again as this is evidence from the time of sale, I think  thats  more  likely 
to be right.  Mr M has said he was in good  health  at the time of the sale.  Although  Mr M 
suffered from a medical problem, this was years  after the sale of the PPI. 
Mrs M was employed as a nurse and documents from the time of sale indicate she had 122 
days full sick pay followed by 122 days half sick pay. She was also in good  health at the time 
of sale. But Mrs M was not covered under the policy.  
CBS has sent us a screenshot to show that the mortgage account  started  in 2007. 
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ms representative says:
CBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ms representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means CBS should  have told 
Mr and Mrs M about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN29370692The common law duty of utmost good faith also means CBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs M and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2007 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Ref: DRN29370693Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
CBS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so CBS was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN29370694-If CBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether CBS gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs M, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs M 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs M 
and CBS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs M know they had a choice?
CBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of the PPI application  form that was completed  in branch when                 
Mr and Mrs M applied for the PPI. In it, they only requested cover for Mr M. There  is also a 
tick next to the option requesting full accident,  sickness and unemployment cover,  with a 
deferred period  of 60 days  and cover for 12 months.  They couldve selected the option 
requesting unemployment cover  only or requested a shorter deferment period of 30 days. 
So, they appear to have  exercised a degree  of consideration and choice. 
Ive seen their key facts  document, and this says Mr and Mrs M arent obliged to out take 
any insurance through CBS. PPI is mentioned under heading  optional  insurance.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs M knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did CBS provide advice?
Both CBS and Mr and Mrs M agree that advice was provided during this sale. 
This means  CBS had to advise Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that CBS took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs M. The adviser had information  about  some of Mr and Mrs Ms financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs M had a need  for the 
policy  by asking  questions about their wider circumstances such  as any existing means   I 
Ref: DRN29370695dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. I say this because I cant see that it 
asked them if they were aware of any known health  issues that Mr M mightve already had. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded CBS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs M given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded CBS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded CBS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs M had a need for the policy  Mr M was the main wage earner and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Ms finances  would be put under strain if he were not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the sickness  and 
redundancy benefits he was entitled  to and Mrs Ms income. The policy would have 
helped Mr and Mrs M manage the consequences if Mr M was unable  to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs M.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr M. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ms employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult  
for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. Although he has told us about a medical problem he 
had, this was experienced after the policy was sold. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr M be disabled  or unemployed for 60 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs M be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  CBS gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what CBS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr M was unable  to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the costs. I 
have reached this conclusion because this was set out on their PPI application form and 
their statement of price document which were produced on the day they had the meeting to 
buy PPI and agreed to take it. And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have taken out 
the policy without  any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might  
be.
Ref: DRN29370696But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  CBS gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs M agreed to take out the 
policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs M Im not persuaded CBS 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded CBS gave Mr and Mrs M all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ms. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs M about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs M have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that CBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did CBSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs M? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that CBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs M. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs M suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer this, I must decide whether or not 
Mr and Mrs M would  have  still taken out the policy, had CBS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded CBS took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs M have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if CBS had explained things properly, 
Ref: DRN29370697Mr and Mrs M would  have  acted differently, or whether they would have  taken out the policy  
in any event.
Mr and Mrs M say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe  I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs M had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when CBS advised  them  that there  was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mr 
M was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment,  they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances  
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
As set out earlier, the information Mr and Mrs M were given about the cost was clear. I also 
think CBS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs M would get back in return in the event they 
made a successful claim as this was set out both in their PPI application form and their 
statement of price. So, I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs Ms expectations  about  what  the policy  
would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  their mortgage payment) was 
significantly different to what the policy  actually did.
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations  and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating any condition, injury,  illness,  disease,  sickness or 
related condition and/or associated symptoms, whether  diagnosed  or not which  Mr M 
knew about, or should reasonably  have  known about at the start date or which he 
had seen or arranged to see a doctor  about  during the 12 months immediately before 
the start date. Claims caused by the pre-existing medical conditions would only be 
excluded if they persisted  or returned  during  the 12 months of accident and sickness 
cover.
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
carry out the duties  of his normal work  and not be doing any other  work,  as confirmed 
by a doctor or specialist. Mr M must also not be doing any other  work  which  the 
insurer thinks he was, or may reasonably become qualified for, in view of his training 
education and ability;
Ref: DRN29370698I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have  caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs M from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for him. Mr M was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr M wouldve  been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr M didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs M had known Mr M could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to 
do his normal job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he might  
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what they would do. 
And I accept  it may have  given them pause  for thought  although  given Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances, on balance, I still think they would have been interested  in taking out the 
cover.
As explained above, in Mr and Mrs Ms PPI application form, they selected  full cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment, but this also specified their payment period was 12 
months. So, I think they wouldve known at the time they applied  for the policy,  that it didnt 
pay out for the remaining  term of the mortgage.  
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr M was made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN29370699Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs M found  themselves  in as a result  of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs M in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude CBS should  pay Mr and Mrs M compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs M think CBS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
CBSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why CBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  CBS gave Mr and Mrs M, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2007  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find CBS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs M and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that CBS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN293706910Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 January 2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2937069