K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that a car he has been financing though an agreement with Close  Brothers 
Limited is not of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr P took receipt of a used car in July 2018. He financed the deal through a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers. The car had, at that time, completed about 93,000 miles and 
was about ten years  old.
Mr P complains that hes had several  issues with the vehicle and that its not been  of 
satisfactory quality. He says hes had to take it back to the garage  on several occasions and 
that hes spent  a lot of money having to put things  right. As follows:
within first few days he contacted  the dealership and told them the air conditioning 
and coolant temperature gauge werent  working.  He also noted  that the emissions 
control warning light was on;
he arranged to have  some rectification work  completed as the dealership didnt 
respond in time before an important  trip abroad. So the air conditioning was re-
gassed and a lambda sensor  replaced;
Mr P travelled abroad  but whilst away further  attention was required to the 
refrigeration system;
Mr P started to experience some loss of power and investigation eventually revealed  
the need to replace the turbo.  This was completed in October 2018;
the exhaust gas recirculation (ERG) cooler needed replacing in December 2018.  
He complained to Close  Brothers  about the car but they rejected his complaint as they said 
he hadnt given  the dealership the opportunity to repair it.
So Mr P referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided an opinion. She 
didnt think there was sufficient evidence to suggest  Close Brothers needed  to take any 
further action. She noted the car had already completed a high mileage when Mr P took 
receipt of it and she explained  that some wear  and tear would therefore be inevitable. She 
noted that it hadnt been possible to contact the dealership before Mr P travelled abroad but 
that the dealership had refunded the costs.  She thought the work completed thereafter was 
likely to have been related  to normal wear and tear and she therefore didnt think  Close 
Brothers needed to pay for it. She noted,  in particular, that the inspection  report of the turbo 
fault explained that it had failed because of general wear and tear. 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He said the car had been  faulty  from the 
start and he asked or a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr P so please let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN22685802Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Close Brother, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory taking into account  any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr P. The car here 
was around ten years  old and had travelled 93,000 miles.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Close Brothers to put this right. 
But Close Brothers  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for 
its condition at the point of supply  they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
the early issues
Mr P collected his car on 17 July 2018  and complained about issues with the air 
conditioning, emission control  and temperature gauge during the weekend.  He was evidently  
in urgent need of having the repairs completed ahead of his trip abroad which started on 24 
July. He had the repairs  done elsewhere.  He wasnt asking to reject the car at this point  but 
simply asking  for it to be repaired. It appears  that repairs  were completed and the 
investigator has explained that the dealership agreed to refund the costs. I think  this was a 
fair resolution to the problems Mr P was experiencing  with the car.
There seems  to be a suggestion that the full repair wasnt completed. Evidence of that isnt 
conclusive but I can see that further  repairs to the refrigeration system were  completed 
whilst Mr P was abroad. I dont think it would be fair to suggest this was therefore evidence  
the first repair was unsuccessful. It was Mr Ps choice to travel  abroad after the first repair 
and if he was aware the repair hadnt been  completed I dont think it would be fair to hold 
Close Brothers responsible for this subsequent work which  may well, I think,  have been 
avoided if more time was available prior to travel.
the subsequent failures
The major issues that Mr P has experienced appear  to have been related to a turbo  failure 
and a coolant leak that was eventually identified as a failed EGR cooler.
Ref: DRN22685803The diagnostic report Ive been provided  with for the turbo  explains that it has failed because 
of heavy  carbon build  up and general  wear and tear. As Ive explained, Close  Brothers 
arent responsible for wear and tear. I think  this is to be expected on a vehicle  of this age 
and mileage. So I dont think they can fairly  be asked to take any action in relation to this 
fault. Mr P says that the turbo failed because the compressor wheel was hit by a foreign 
object. I can see this is referred to in the diagnostic report but its not claimed its the reason 
for failure.  And, even if it was, I dont  think it would be fair to suggest that was Close  
Brothers responsibility as it would  be unclear  when  that collision took place and I think,  as 
Mr P had by then been able to drive about 3,500  miles. Its most  likely the collision  would 
have happened  since the car was supplied to him.
The ERG cooler failed  in December 2018 and after the car had completed almost  4,000 
miles. I dont  think theres evidence that this failure  was there from the start or that Mr P 
would have been able to complete the mileage he had if the fault had been there at that 
point. I think its most  likely this fault has happened  subsequently and Im not persuaded that 
Close Brothers are therefore responsible for its rectification.
Overall, Im not persuaded that theres  been  sufficient evidence  that this car has experienced 
faults that could  not reasonably be related  to normal wear  and tear on a vehicle of this age 
and mileage. Im persuaded that the early problems reported were remedied albeit by 
another garage and in line with Mr Ps request. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2268580