K820x#14Complaint
Mr P, through his claims management  company (CMC) has complained about an 
endowment policy sold to his father for his benefit by a business which  now is the 
responsibility of ReAssure Limited (ReAssure). The CMC has said as Mr P was single with 
no dependants at the time the plan was sold, he had no need for it.
Background
In 1985, Mr Ps father  took out a Flexible  Endowment Savings plan for the benefit of Mr P in 
the future.  The plan provided  a sum assured of just over £15,000 payable at the end of the 
term. This amount would accumulate over the course of the term with bonuses being added  
on each policy anniversary. The term was until 2047. 
Mr Ps father paid just over £30 per month for this policy until Mr P turned twenty one at 
which point the policy automatically legally transferred to his ownership. This was part of the 
policys terms and conditions.
At the time of the sale Mr Ps father was married and was employed and had dependent 
children. Mr P at the time of the sale was three  years old.
The plan included life protection  and waiver of premium benefit which  Mr Ps father utilised in 
March 2001. After receiving legal ownership of the plan Mr P surrendered  it in 2009 and 
received just over £14,500.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt  be upheld.  He 
felt that the evidence showed that Mr Ps father took the policy for the benefit of his son Mr P 
and so the arguments presented by the CMC didnt  really apply. It was likely Mr Ps 
circumstances were  always going to be at odds  with selling  such  a plan but given he was 
three years old and the plan was sold to his father  for Mr Ps use in the future, it was sold in 
line with his fathers needs and objectives  at the time.
The CMC didnt agree with the assessment. It raised concerns over the policy providing life 
protection and also felt the term was so long that it negated the usefulness of the policy.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to review  for a 
final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
The nature of this complaint is different to other complaints we usually see in this Service.  
The CMC has said the endowment policy  was unsuitable for Mr P because  he was single 
and had no dependants at the time of the sale, so had no need  for a savings plan. However, 
the plan was sold to his father for Mr Ps benefit in the future. As Mr P was aged three at the 
time its no surprise that his circumstances  didnt warrant the sale of such a policy. However  
in my view,  that is largely irrelevant given the plan was taken out for him by his father.
Ref: DRN25266412I have looked  at the paperwork  provided  from the time of the sale and I am satisfied the plan 
was taken for Mr Ps benefit. There is no fact find, suitability  assessment or letter  but given 
this policy  was sold before the introduction of the Financial Services  Act (1986) I am not 
surprised by this. 
This does  mean, however, that I cant see a record of Mr Ps fathers  specific  objective for 
taking the plan. But, the application for the plan does state it is a childs application which  
therefore implies to me that this was specific type of endowment policy  that was for the 
benefit of a child. This is further supported by the fact it was written into the terms and 
conditions of the plan that when the person who benefitted from the plan, in this case Mr P, 
turned twenty  one, the legal ownership  would automatically pass to him. This is not the case 
with normal endowment polices.
So given this, I am satisfied that the policy was taken out for the benefit of Mr P in his future 
by his father.  Therefore,  it follows, that at the time of the sale Mr Ps personal circumstances 
are largely irrelevant in thinking about the suitably of the plan.  And from the little I have seen 
from the time of the sale, I think the plan met with Mr Ps fathers objective of providing  some 
sort of savings plan for his son in his future, and I see no problem with this.
I know the CMC has said that this was a very long plan and so the benefit of it is almost 
worthless. I agree the term of the plan was very long however given the objective was just to 
provide a lump  sum of cash for Mr P at some point in the future  I cant  see this alone makes 
the plan unsuitable. While  sixty five may have been  a long time to wait for a plan to mature  
I cant see Mr P was relying on this money.  Also a lump  sum of cash  would  be useful at any 
age especially if someone was due to stop working in the near future, as would be expected  
around the age of sixty five.
The CMC has also questioned the usefulness  of the life protection  element of the policy. But 
the CMC  should know full well that for endowment savings plans the including  of life 
protection makes  the policy qualifying for tax purposes which obviously benefits anyone 
receiving the payment  under the plan. Also, only a very small amount of the premium was 
going to provide the life protection  part (around £0.15 per month  at policy  inception)  so again 
I dont think this makes the plan unsuitable  given the objectives Mr Ps father had at the time.
Overall therefore, I am satisfied Mr Ps father wanted to take some  sort of savings plan to 
benefit his son in the future and I think this plan in question met with that objective. I dont 
think the CMCs argument bears direct relevance  to this policy or the circumstances 
surrounding it. So I cant conclude  in this specific situation that ReAssure  has done anything  
wrong.
Ref: DRN25266413My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and I make no award,
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2526641