K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 1996. Ms J says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her the PPI.
Ms J took out the store card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken  responsibility  for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Js case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ms J says that the PPI was added to her account without her knowledge or consent  
she says that the sales person dealt with the form and she just signed it. FICL has 
provided a copy of Ms Js store  card application  and I can see that the policy  is 
presented as optional, and has been selected  with a tick. Ms J has then signed the 
application. While I dont doubt what Ms J is saying  and its possible the application 
was completed by the sales person,  it doesnt  follow that the PPI wasnt  clearly  made  
optional by FICL. And as Ms J was entering  in to a financial agreement,  it was her 
responsibility to check  over what she was agreeing  to by signing.  
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms J so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Ms J got the information  she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms J has said, but these points dont change my decision, and 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.  
Ref: DRN21472022Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2147202