K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms S complain  that NRAM Limited didnt  treat them fairly when their mortgage fell 
into arrears and the property was repossessed.  
background
Mr and Ms S had a mortgage with NRAM. In 2009 the mortgage fell into arrears. NRAM took 
legal action but Mr and Ms S cleared the arrears.  But in 2013 the mortgage fell back into 
arrears. And in 2014 the property was repossessed.  The property was sold  but not for 
enough to clear the mortgage balance, leaving a shortfall for Mr and Ms S to repay.
In June 2020, I issued a jurisdiction decision saying that I couldnt  look at events that 
happened before  24 May 2013.  That means  that I cant consider many of the things Mr and 
Ms S want to complain  about as they relate  to events before that date. 
Mr S and Ms S consider  that NRAM didnt treat them  fairly  when they experienced financial 
difficulty.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Ms S didnt accept what 
she said.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Ms Ss main  points are that NRAM treated them  unfairly when he says it forced him 
to repay  all of the arrears  and wouldnt agree a payment plan with him. But that happened 
before 24 May 2013  so it isnt something  I can look at for the reasons already explained.
I have looked  into what happened between 24 May 2013 and the property being  
repossessed. I can see that the mortgage  was up to date at that time and fell into arrears in 
October 2013 with no further payments made  to the mortgage. 
NRAM has given us notes  that show that it spoke to Mr S in November 2013. They say that 
Mr S hadnt  been  living in the property and that it had been  damaged.  He said he couldnt 
afford to make  any payments or repair the damage  to the property and refused to give 
details of his income  and expenditure. I can see NRAM explained the process  for voluntarily 
surrendering the property,  but it would need Ms S to agree  to that. 
There is a further phone conversation in December 2013 between  Mr S and NRAM. He 
reiterates he cant make payments and NRAM tells him that it cant contact Ms S as it 
doesnt have her contact  details. There  is no further contact. NRAM takes possession of the 
property, enforcing the possession  order it had previously  obtained.
Overall, I consider NRAM has acted fairly and reasonably  from 24 May 2013 in the way it 
treated Mr and Ms S. Based on the information available to it there was no way to get the 
mortgage back on track  in view of that and the history of the account  it was reasonable to 
take possession  when it did.
Ref: DRN29764322In regard to the shortfall Mr and Ms S are being pursued for, that is not something that we 
have looked into. She said it was unclear what,  if anything, Mr and Ms S were  unhappy 
about in respect  of the shortfall and asked them to tell her. I cant  see that they did so. And 
NRAM hasnt issued  a final response in relation to that matter.  If that is something that Mr 
and Ms S want to complain about then they would need to complain to NRAM first.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 November  2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2976432