K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains Coutts & Company didnt provide enough information  to his new bank 
account provider  to allow a smooth and effective transfer of his current account to them.
background
Mr C had a current account  with Coutts. In March 2019, he wanted  to transfer his account to 
a new bank, and initiated a transfer using the current account switch  guarantee  scheme.
The account  switch  didnt run smoothly, and some of Mr Cs direct  debit instructions werent  
transferred to his new bank. This was because  of the way some of Mr Cs historic direct  
debits were set up  Coutts used to allow a customer to set up direct debits using a cheque 
book number rather than the account number itself. Coutts notified customers  in 2016  they 
must stop using this method for new direct debits.  But it did develop  an internal fix to 
identify existing debit  instructions, to make sure these payment requests continued to be 
honoured without  any problem. So, the direct debit instructions Mr C had set up using this 
old process continued to be paid as normal.
However, this internal  fix didnt capture the older  instructions when a customer  transferred  
their account  using the switch guarantee service. Coutts told us where  a customer  started an 
account switch  process  and provided  their new bank  with their cheque book number  and 
not the actual  account number - any direct  debits set up using the cheque book method 
wouldnt be redirected. This is what happened here.
Shortly after the switch  request  was made,  Coutts wrote to Mr C to tell him that a number of 
the regular payments and debits on his account   those set up using the cheque-book  
number method  may not be transferred to his new bank. Coutts told Mr C that hed need  to 
contact each payment  or debit originator to advise  them of his new bank account details. In 
fact, some  of Mr Cs direct debits werent  successfully switched, and went  unpaid.
Mr C complained to Coutts.  He believed that Coutts  had developed  a system that allowed 
cheque-book direct debits to continue to work, so that system should also work in an 
account switch  situation. His account switch hadnt worked as it should have, and hed 
suffered inconvenience as a result. Coutts  didnt uphold the complaint,  so Mr C brought his 
complaint to us. One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint, but didnt think Coutts 
should have done anything differently. She concluded Mr C was told in 2016  about the 
change in account number, and it was up to him to have  updated his direct debit receivers 
with his correct  account  number  the switch failure  process wasnt a bank error.
Mr C was unhappy with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
my provisional findings 
I have previously issued  my provisional  findings in this case,  in which  I reached  the following 
conclusions.
The account  switch  guarantee service, operated by BACS, allows an account holder to move 
their bank account  the switch  to a new bank. It states, amongst other things:
We have designed the Current Account  Switch  Service to let you switch your current  
account from one bankto another in a simple, reliable and stress-free way
Ref: DRN25656082We will take care of moving  all your payments  going out (for example, your direct 
debits and standing  orders) and those coming in (for example your salary)
The guarantee makes  the new bank responsible for making sure the switch is effective. but it 
also has to rely on full information being provided  by the existing bank. Ive seen that Coutts 
did this  it provided details of every one of Mr Cs payment instructions to his new bank.
I asked what happens when a failed payment request  to Coutts was made post-switch  and 
was told these were captured by the BACS system  and returned  to the requestor. Coutts 
advised it didnt  see these failed requests, so couldnt have done anything  to alert Mr C 
about them  or been aware generally if any requests  werent being  honoured.
I acknowledged Mr C used the wrong  account  number for the switch   and had he used the 
correct one its likely none of the subsequent problems would have occurred. Coutts  has told 
us it advised all their customers, in 2016,  there was an issue  with using the wrong  account  
number on payment instructions. It reissued new cheque  books  showing the correct  account 
number. I was satisfied  these would have been sent to Mr C, and so Mr C was likely aware 
what his correct account number was at the time of his switch application  and concluded 
he most likely  made a simple mistake  using the wrong number for the switch process.
I also asked Coutts  how it communicated with Mr C after becoming aware the switch  may be 
problematic. Coutts advised  it had two processes  a letter was sent listing all of the 
payment instructions on Mr Cs account  that may be affected, and also an internal message 
was generated  to Mr Cs private banker asking her to contact him. I havent seen a copy  of 
the message,  but Ive been told it was a prompt for her to contact Mr C to suggest he re-
attempt the switch using the correct number. Coutts  has told me no such contact was made, 
and the first communication the private  banker had with Mr C (post-switch)  was after hed 
raised his complaint  over one month later. I concluded that, had the private banker 
contacted Mr C as she was supposed  to do, hed likely  have been  alerted to the problem 
almost on day one. Given this, I thought its more likely than not  aware what the potential  
problems could be - hed have made a further  correct switch application.
So, put simply, I thought Mr Cs initial  mistake caused the problem,  but Coutts failure  to 
follow its own guidance by contacting  Mr C prevented the fallout from that mistake  from 
being mitigated   i.e. the missed payments, fees and inconvenience experienced by Mr C.
Mr C advised hed incurred some fees  amounting to £263 - as a result of missed 
payments, and I considered who should  be responsible  for meeting these. Under  the switch 
process the new bank  only covers  costs that are attributable to its own actions  or mistakes. 
These fees werent  incurred because of the actions of the new bank. So, that left either  Mr C 
or Coutts.  And because I thought the actions/inactions of both Coutts and Mr C helped 
cause these fees to be incurred, I said the fairest outcome here would be for this cost to be 
evenly split, and Coutts should reimburse Mr C half of this sum - £131.50. And I concluded 
Coutts should also pay £75 to Mr C to compensate for the inconvenience experienced by 
him as a result of their mistake.
Finally, Mr C had asked  for a proper  enquiry  into the way Coutts manages its account 
switching procedures. I advised the Financial  Ombudsman Service  is set up to resolve 
disputes, and not to review or tell a bank how its processes should work  this is a matter for 
the Financial Conduct Authority, so I wouldnt be able to look at this part of Mr Cs complaint.
Ref: DRN25656083response to my provisional  findings
Both Mr C and Coutts have responded. Mr C doesnt believe he is partly  liable  for the failure 
of the switch process. He makes the following comments in this regard:
Coutts had set up an internal fix to deal with the account/chequebook number issue   it 
was aware this was a problem issue and a workaround had been created
Before the switch, all direct debit payments were made,  and cheques  accepted  bearing  
the original account number,  to allow the account to continue to run smoothly
And so, Mr C was entitled  to assume  all further  dealings involving the cheque  book 
account number  would provide the same  level of service as with any other  number which 
Coutts was able to recognise. And this would include the switching process
Coutts decided  not to invest in the necessary IT systems to ensure a successful switch 
operation. It had a system that auto-generated  an internal message  which it didnt 
react to  so there was knowledge  switching was an issue. It wasnt Mr Cs fault Coutts 
chose not to create the necessary IT fix
And finally, Coutts cant absolve  itself of blame by printing out a sheet of bank payments 
and simply sending  it out - that is not the point of the switch guarantee
Coutts is also unhappy with my provisional  decision. Coutts  says it did all it needed  to do 
under the switch and shouldnt be liable for events caused by Mr Cs mistake  using  the 
wrong account number.  So Coutts says it shouldnt be liable for half of Mr Cs fees. And 
Coutts disagree with my conclusions regarding its personal banker failing to contact  Mr C, as 
its internal guidelines said she should have done,  after realising Mr C had attempted  the 
switch using the wrong number. Coutts  maintain it did make Mr C aware of the switch 
problem by writing to him as soon as it became aware, but he took no action.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From my review of the circumstances the outcome  here is essentially  dependent on whether 
Coutts followed its own internal processes sufficiently and notified  Mr C of the potential  
problems his switch  request  might encounter. Coutts  has confirmed it had two processes  
sending the letter mentioned above,  and Mr Cs personal banker making contact.
Coutts say by sending this letter it complied  with its internal guidance about alerting Mr C to 
the potential switch problem as soon  as it became aware. Ive seen a copy of this letter  - 
populated with the details  of Mr Cs various monthly  payment transactions   over 60 in total - 
which the letter says may not automatically redirect. But the letter  doesnt  say Mr C used  
the wrong account number when completing  his switch application  instead it says an 
incorrect account number  was used when setting up certain regular payments. And the 
letter doesnt  advise  Mr C he could re-attempt  the switch  using  the correct  account number. 
Instead it simply advises him to contact the originators of each of the payments mentioned  to 
advise them of his new bank details.
And regarding  the issue  of the private banker  alert,  Im told this was an auto-generated 
message sent to the private  banker as soon as Coutts system registered  the application. But 
Ive been told the private  banker made  no contact. Coutts hasnt referred to its private 
bankers failure  to contact Mr C in its response  to me.
Ref: DRN25656084Coutts says it did everything it could  or should have done in the circumstances. Ive agreed 
previously that, as part of the BACS switch process itself,  Coutts  did all it was required to do 
in terms of providing Mr Cs payment information to his new bank, and Ive seen nothing  that 
leads me to change  my mind on this point. The issue is one of customer  service, around the 
internal processes Coutts has to help its customers through this process  separately to the 
formal switch process  and whether  these  were followed.
But Coutts  letter to Mr C wasnt sufficiently clear regarding why his switch may not work, nor 
did it give clear advice  about how ultimately to resolve the problems  caused   re-attempt 
using the correct number. And Coutts  didnt  follow  its other  internal  process  properly - Mr Cs 
private banker  contacting him to alert him of the problems. Yes, this situation  was initially 
triggered by Mr C using  the wrong  account number. But I dont think  Coutts  then did enough 
to prevent the problems subsequently experienced by Mr C, or acted in line with its own 
processes.
So, Ive havent  seen anything further from either  party  for me to change  my mind  here,  or 
my proposed  outcome. Mr C did incur some fees as a result of the problems he experienced 
after the switch.  Both parties made  mistakes that contributed  to those fees being  incurred, I 
think the fairest outcome is for each party to assume  equal responsibility for these. As I said 
before, that means Coutts must  repay 50% of those fees to Mr C. And it must  also pay £75 
as compensation  for the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr C.
my final decision
So, for the reasons set out above, my final decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and 
require Coutts  & Company to do the following:
Pay £131.50 to Mr C as contribution  to the fees hes incurred following problems 
associated with his account switch application.
Coutts must also calculate  and pay Mr C 8% simple interest* on this sum, broken down 
as follows:
oIn respect of the first £5.50, pay 8% simple interest from 16 April 2019, the day 
the fees were  incurred,  until the date of settlement
oIn respect of the remaining  £126,  pay 8% simple  interest  from 31 May 2019, the 
day the fees were  incurred, until the date of settlement
Pay a further  £75 to Mr C, as compensation for the inconvenience experienced during 
his account switch process.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020. 
Mark Evans
ombudsman
*If Coutts and Company  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing this if they ask 
for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2565608