K821x#15complaint
Ms F complains that Uncle  Buck  Finance LLP lent her money that she couldnt afford to 
repay.
background
Ms F took out three loans  with Uncle Buck between February and August 2015. She 
borrowed £175 for loan one, £250  for loan two and £250 for loan three. Loans two and three 
were instalment loans  that Ms F was due to repay over three months.
Ms F says she was in a difficult financial situation.  She wants  Uncle  Buck to refund the 
interest that she paid and amend her credit file.
The adjudicator recommended that Ms Fs complaint be upheld in part. He didnt think that 
Ms F could afford to repay loan one in a sustainable  way. Ms F declared a monthly income 
of £900 with outgoings of £650. The adjudicator didnt think  that this left Ms F with enough 
disposable income after shed repaid Uncle Buck around £220.
Although the adjudicator thought that Uncle Buck shouldve been carried  out better checks  
before agreeing loans two and three, Ms F wasnt able to give us bank statements to 
consider what proportionate checks wouldve revealed. 
Uncle Buck  doesnt  agree  with the adjudicators recommendation. Uncle Buck  says that as 
Ms F told it she was living with her family,  its unlikely that any unexpected expenses would 
be significant or urgent as Ms F wasnt the main  bill payer.
Uncle Buck  says that the credit  search it carried out didnt reveal a high level of outstanding 
debt. Uncle  Buck remarks on the discrepancies between the figures that Ms F declared at 
the time of loan one and the figures  that she gave towards the end of 2015. Uncle Buck 
thinks that its possible that Ms F mis-stated her income and outgoings either when  she 
applied or in her complaint.
Uncle Buck  notes that Ms F went on to make a number of loan applications  that it either 
declined or Ms F cancelled. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Uncle Buck  was required to make  sure Ms F could repay any money that it lent to her in a 
sustainable way. Any checks had to be proportionate to things  such  as the amount of the 
loan, the repayments and any borrowing history. But there wasnt a set list of checks  Uncle 
Buck had to carry out.
Uncle Buck  as given  us evidence to show that it asked  Ms F about her income and 
outgoings each  time.  
Ref: DRN23977192loan one 
Ms F was due to pay Uncle Buck about £220  in one payment. Ms F told Uncle  Buck that her 
monthly income was £900 with outgoings of £650. This left her with a disposable income of 
£250. 
Although this mightve been just enough to afford to loan one, Ms F was only left with £30 
after making the repayment.  If Ms F had any unexpected expenses   even relatively minor 
ones  shed have been left with no disposable  income at all. 
I take the point  that Uncle Buck makes about  Ms F living at home and the fact she didnt 
seem to have much  in the way of credit  commitments.  But I dont think its reasonable to 
assume that just because  of this, Ms F was unlikely to have any unexpected outgoings. I 
also note from the credit search that Ms F had what looks  to be an outstanding mortgage 
commitment to pay so she may have  had more costs associated with this that she wasnt 
prompted to disclose at the point of the loan application. 
loans two and three
Ms F took out loans two and three  immediately upon repaying each earlier loan. I agree with 
the adjudicator  that this pattern of lending shouldve  prompted Uncle Buck  to ask more 
questions than it did about Ms Fs financial commitments, including whether she had any 
other short term loans.
However, as Ms F says she cant supply bank statements from the time of the loans, I cant 
say what Uncle Buck wouldve discovered  had it carried out the kinds  of checks  that I think  
were proportionate. Based on the information that Uncle  Buck held about Ms F, it looked as 
though she could afford the monthly repayments  on each loan. This means that I dont 
uphold Ms Fs complaint  about  loans two or three.
putting things right
To put things right Uncle Buck  should:
Refund any interest and charges paid on loan one;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
Remove any negative  information recorded about loan one from Ms Fs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Ms Fs complaint in part and direct Uncle  Buck Finance LLP to 
put things right as detailed above.
Ref: DRN23977193Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2397719