K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about what  happened  when he asked The Co-operative  Bank Plc to remove 
another party from a joint account.
background
Mr C and his girlfriend  had a joint account with the Co-op. The account had a £500 overdraft 
limit. After  their relationship ended,  they asked the Co-op to remove  her from the account, 
and to convert it to a sole account in his name.  However, this instruction was not carried out 
until three months later. Mr C complained about the delay.  He also complained that the bank  
had breached the Data Protection Act by continuing  to write to his ex-girlfriend,  and that the 
bank had refused  to allow him to continue  to have an overdraft facility  on the account. (She  
is not a party  to this complaint.)
The bank paid Mr C £50 compensation because  one of its call handlers had given him 
incorrect information about the overdraft  limit on the account. But apart  from that, the bank 
did not accept  that it had done anything wrong. It said that the delay had been entirely 
because of issues out of its control, such as the account being overdrawn. It had continued 
to write to his ex-girlfriend  only while she had continued to be an account holder.
Mr C brought this complaint to our Service. He said £50 was not enough.  He said that the 
Co-ops communication with him had been poor, and he had been caused a great  deal of 
stress.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He said that the delays had not been the 
banks fault. After the bank had told Mr C that it would remove the overdraft  facility,  it had 
later told him that he could have an overdraft limit of £260, which  was wrong, but the 
adjudicator thought that £50 was fair compensation for that error. The adjudicator would not 
consider whether the bank had breached  the Data Protection Act, as that was a matter for 
the Information Commissioners Office, but he didnt think  there  was anything wrong with the 
bank writing to the other joint account holder while the account was still in joint names.
Mr C did not agree. He said the main reason for the delay had been because the bank had 
misled him. The bank should not have continued  to communicate with his ex-girlfriend about 
the account after the date when it was supposed to remove her. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and his ex-girlfriend  first asked the bank to remove her from the account in a letter 
dated 2 November 2017. A week later, she told the bank that she had moved to a new 
address. About two weeks after that, Mr C emailed the bank  to ask if there was anything  else 
he needed to do to ensure that she was removed from the account. That was on 23 
November, three weeks after the letter. On the same day, the bank replied to say that they 
would both have  to sign a mandate. It also asked that she cut her card in half and return  it. 
The mandate was signed, dated 2 December,  and returned to the bank, with her card.
Ref: DRN29516182On 12 December the Co-op decided that it would not continue to provide an overdraft facility  
on the account once it became a sole account.  Mr C has criticised this decision,  but it was a 
decision the Co-op was entitled to make. It is entirely up to the bank whether it wants to give 
a customer an overdraft  facility. So I am not able to uphold that part of this complaint.
The effect of that decision  was that Mr Cs ex-girlfriend couldnt be removed from the 
account while it was still overdrawn. She paid off the overdraft a week  later.  (Mr C says he 
gave her the money to make that payment. I understand why he has told us that  its to 
show that the bank should  have allowed him to have an overdraft facility  but it makes  no 
difference to what Ive said above.)
The Co-op knew that she had paid off the overdraft, because she phoned  the bank to tell it. 
There is an entry to his effect in its records, dated 20 December. So it appears that she 
could have been removed from the account then, since  there was no longer an overdraft  
balance to prevent  this from happening.
Instead, the next day, the bank sent Mr C a letter to say that it had been unable to change 
the joint account to a sole account because it was overdrawn. In fact this information was out 
of date, because  the overdraft balance  had already been cleared. The same outdated 
information was given to Mr C in a phone  call on the same day.
In another phone call the next day, the bank  agreed  to give Mr C  as the sole account 
holder  a temporary overdraft limit of £260, until the end of January, to give him time to sort 
out his finances over Christmas, as he said he could not afford  to pay £500 all at once. 
Obviously this was before he knew  that it had already  been  paid off.
However, the Co-op had made  two errors.  Firstly, its call handler told Mr C that the overdraft 
facility was permanent, when it was only temporary. Secondly, the overdraft still meant that 
the ex-girlfriend could not be removed  from the account while  it was in place, even though  it 
was only temporary and had been  reduced by nearly half. It should not have been offered to 
him. Mr C was not told about  this until 22 January. It was for these errors that the Co-op paid 
him £50 on 8 February.
On that day, 8 February, the Co-op  told Mr C that his ex-girlfriend  had paid off the original 
overdraft balance. But the account was overdrawn  again,  because of Mr Cs own spending 
on the account since then. The overdraft facility  had expired at the end of January, so he 
was now in an unarranged overdraft, which would affect his credit  file.
The £50 compensation was used  to reduce the overdraft balance, and Mr Cs ex-girlfriend 
paid off the rest of it  about £200   later that day.
I think the Co-op should remove  any adverse  data it reported about  the unarranged  
overdraft, both in relation  to Mr C and the other account holder too. If the account  holders 
had been told that the overdraft facility would expire at the end of January, then its likely that 
one or both of them would have  taken steps  to pay it off in time, and no unarranged  overdraft  
would have been incurred in February.
The other account holder was finally removed from the account on 12 February, nearly two 
months after she had paid off the original overdraft balance. She could have been  removed  
back then, that is, on 20 December. That is undoubtedly poor service. But I dont agree that 
there was anything wrong with the bank  contacting  her during this period, as she was still an 
account holder.
Ref: DRN29516183In the meantime (3 February),  Mr C had asked the bank to remove him as an account 
holder. That was clearly  impossible, and he knew that, or at least  he ought  to have known. 
I dont uphold that part of this complaint. The account was closed  at his request on 21 
February.
I have considered whether £50 is enough compensation for the delay in changing the 
account to a joint account, or whether the Co-op  should pay more.  The Co-op has argued  
that when Mr C was given the £260  overdraft facility, he used it, spending money on the 
account even  though  he knew that the other account holder could not be removed from the 
account while it was overdrawn. But I dont think he did know that, because this new facility 
was described to him as one he could have  as a sole account holder, after the other  account  
holder was removed.  I dont think his determination to have the other account holder 
removed as soon  as possible is consistent with his use of the new facility, unless he was led 
to believe that the new facility would  not obstruct that process. By the time he was told 
otherwise, it was too late  the account was overdrawn  again.
Furthermore, Mr C was never supposed to have been given the new facility in the first place. 
That error is the only reason why he ran up a new overdraft  at all. Also, as Ive said, the 
balance at the time was nil, so the account was ready to be converted  to a sole account  on 
22 December. Instead, this was delayed by nearly eight weeks.
For all of those reasons, I dont think the Co-op  can escape responsibility for the delay in 
removing the other  account holder from the account  simply  by saying that the delay was 
caused by Mr Cs spending. Its errors directly led to that spending.
The experience was obviously a frustrating one for Mr C, given  that it led to him closing the 
account. I dont  think  £50 is quite enough. I think a total of £80 compensation would be fair. 
I imagine that is less than he expected, but I hope I have explained why I have not been able 
to uphold every aspect of his complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order The Co-operative  Bank Plc to:
Pay Mr C £30, in addition to the £50 it has paid him.
Arrange for any adverse data in respect of the overdraft on the account between  20 
December 2017 and 8 February 2018  (inclusive) to be removed from his credit file.
Refund any unarranged overdraft charges or interest which  were  charged in 
February 2018.
I recommend that the bank also removes any adverse data from the other  account  holders  
credit file in respect  of the overdraft on the account  between 20 December 2017 and 
8 February 2018  inclusive.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2951618