K820x#14complaint
Ms O1 through her representative  Ms O2 complains that Santander UK Plc acted unfairly  
and unreasonably when dealing with her application to have a mortgage  in her sole name. 
She wants matters put right.
background
Ms O1 had a joint mortgage with her now ex-husband with Santander. Following  divorce 
proceedings, Ms O1 wanted the mortgage  in her sole name  and applied  for a change  of 
borrower. Santander declined. Ms O1 said that this was unfair as shed been paying  the 
mortgage and was a breach of a court  order made as part of the divorce.
Ms O1 complained to Santander. It said the application was unsuccessful  as Mr O would still 
have an interest in the property under a legal charge due to be paid while the mortgage  was 
in place. This didnt  meet  Santanders  lending policies, unless Ms O1 had sufficient savings 
to pay the charge herself. The court order made it clear that Mr O was due to receive a 
significant sum of money from the property when the youngest  child left university; 
Santander needed to understand how this debt would  be paid by Ms O1. It had previously 
agreed to go ahead,  but that was when it was told by Ms O1 the debt was due on the sale of 
the property. As this order affected the affordability of the mortgage, Santander wasnt able 
to agree to Ms O1s application until evidence  of how the debt would be paid was given.
Ms O2 complained to us, saying that relatives could  gift the necessary money to Ms O1 if the 
charge needed  to be repaid. Santander  pointed out that if that was an option, it was open to 
the relatives to gift the money  now, but the wording of the court  order was clear. It also noted 
that Ms O1 could also go to another lender. 
The investigators view was that Santander wasnt at fault.  She said that the 2016 application 
was considered on the basis of what Ms O1 had told Santander about the court order; 
Santander didnt  see it then. But this application ended as Ms O1 wasnt  able to proceed  
within the six months that the offer was available; the investigator said that it was likely  
Santander wouldve  withdrawn the offer if it had seen the court order.  The investigator said 
that when Ms O1 reapplied in 2018, Santander did see the court  order and it was likely that 
the charge to Mr O would need to be repaid during the term of the mortgage. She said that it 
was reasonable  for Santander  to be concerned  as it put its security at risk; it was able to use 
its commercial  judgement and decline the application under  its lending  policies.
Ms O2 disagreed. She said that Santander  did see the court order in 2016 and the order  
would be breached if Santander didnt  grant  Ms O1s application.  Ms O2 also said that as 
Ms O1 was paying the mortgage alone now, the change of the mortgage to her sole name 
simply reflected the reality of the situation.  The investigator noted  that the court order  wasnt  
binding upon  Santander and didnt change her view. Ms O2 said Santanders actions were 
putting Ms O1 and Mr O in breach of the order and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN29364732Lenders are able to apply  their lending policies to applications,  provided that they apply 
those policies fairly and reasonably. And lending policies  change over time. The 2016 
application expired as Ms O1 wasnt able to go ahead; this doesnt mean that the 2018 
application must be successful as the current lending policies apply.
The court order  isnt binding upon  Santander   it doesnt tell it to do anything  and it isnt a 
party to the divorce.  But the court order in my view is the reason why Santander wont 
approve Ms O1s application; due to the charge  in Mr Os favour (which is likely to need to 
be dealt with while the mortgage  exists), theres an issue about both security  and 
affordability.
The 2018  application is a new application.  While Ms O2 says its successful completion will 
reflect the reality, this isnt correct.  At the moment,  Santander can pursue Mr O for any 
unpaid mortgage;  after the application, it wont  be able to do so. And lenders are required to 
ensure that any new application results in an affordable  situation  for the consumer. But 
Ms O1 doesnt have  an acceptable repayment plan to deal with Mr O. If relatives intend to 
help with a gift, then it isnt unfair  or unreasonable for Santander to point out that this could 
happen now. Ms O1 hasnt provided  the evidence  Santander  has asked for to show  that the 
debt can be resolved.
Santander has discussed the situation  with Ms O1 and her relative according to the evidence  
before me (and I place  weight on those notes as they were made at the time) and explained 
that its lending  policies and attitude to risk is why the application failed. It has suggested  
options based on the information provided.  I think this is fair and reasonable, as is its 
application of the lending  policies.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O1 to accept or reject my decision before 
31 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2936473