K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains Santander UK Plc gave  her unsuitable advice on her investment plans 
which included a structured product  and a stocks and shares  Individual  Savings Account 
(ISA).
background
In June 2018 Ms R met with a financial  planning manager in a Santander branch. Ms R had 
received a lump  sum payment from her mortgage  company due to overpayments  which she 
was looking to invest. Santander  recommended that Ms R invest  £40,000, split equally 
between a structured  product  and a stocks and shares ISA. She surrendered her stocks and 
shares ISA around six months later at a loss, but her structured product remained in place. 
Ms R says she was looking for a low risk investment to grow her money  so she could use it 
towards her pension, but immediately after investing she was losing money.  She says she 
asked Santander  to step down her money  from her stocks and shares ISA when her loss 
was £500, but she was told this wasnt possible. 
Santander rejected  Ms Rs complaint.  It says it carried  out a Fact Find and Suitability Letter 
at the time of advice which showed  she had discussed the financial/political climate, different 
investment options  including pension  products  and her attitude  to risk. It didnt believe there 
was evidence to indicate the advice had been unsuitable. Santander says there is no other 
option but to not invest her money  in her stocks  and shares ISA, so it carried out Ms Rs 
instruction to surrender when she asked it to.  
      
Ms R was unhappy with Santanders response, so she brought  her complaint to us. One of 
our investigators considered what had happened but he didnt think  Santanders  advice was 
unsuitable, so he didnt uphold the complaint.  He says Ms R indicated  at the time of advice 
that she was looking  for long term investment  and she was willing  to take some  risk with her 
money, so he couldnt hold Santander  responsible for her decision to surrender her stocks  
and shares ISA as soon  as she did. He also thought Santander did inform  Ms R at the time 
of her initial request  to step down her money from her stocks  and shares  ISA that the only 
option she had was to sell the investment, but she decided not to at that point.  
Ms R disagreed. She says she made it clear she wanted a higher return  than what she 
would get if her money were to be in a current account, but this did not happen. She says 
when she became concerned about  the performance of her investment Santander did not 
provide any further  advice. She also says Santander  assessed her attitude to risk incorrectly. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Rs complaint.  I understand this will come as a disappointment  to her, but Ill 
explain my reasons why.
When a financial advisor gives advice, they have  a responsibility to make sure that any 
recommendations they make are suitable  taking circumstances  and needs  into account. 
Thats what  Im now looking at.
Ref: DRN21465022Its important to remember that I cant look at this complaint with the benefit  of hindsight. The 
stocks and shares ISA investment didnt do very well, and Ms R made a loss. Shed probably  
have been better off with a savings account. But the adviser couldnt have foreseen  at the 
time how the investment would perform  so the performance of the investment doesnt 
necessarily mean the investment was wrong  for her. What  I must do is look at all the 
circumstances at the time and see whether the advisers recommendation appears suitable  
based on what it knew then.
Santander has provided us with key documents such as the Fact Find,  Risk Profiling 
Questionnaire and Suitability Letter it completed when it gave the investment advice. Ms R 
at the time was in her 50s, in good  health, working  part time, planning to retire  at age 65, 
divorced and whilst she had children, they were  not financially  dependent on her. Ms Rs 
only experience  in investing was shares she held in 1980s so Santander classified her as a 
first-time investor - and as such recommended Ms R hold a cash reserve of 50% of her total 
investable assets  which included £5,000 emergency fund. She had no plans for her money, 
but she wanted a better  return than a bank  account.
Ms R says Santander assessed her attitude to risk incorrectly as she was a low risk investor. 
As a way of Santander understanding Ms Rs attitude to risk, she completed  a questionnaire. 
In this questionnaire  it asked her, when considering investing, how much  of your money 
would you be willing to place in an investment with possible high returns but a similar  chance  
of losing some of your money? to which she answered half. It also asked her if she had a 
choice of two products  with one providing a low return with no risk of losing the initial  
investment and the other providing  a high return with some risk of losing part of the initial  
investment, shed go for a mixture of the two. 
In discussing her attitude to risk, the suitability report concludes  (based on the answers 
shed given in the questionnaire) Ms R felt comfortable placing a portion [of her investment]  
in a risk-based  fund as long as the other half had some capital protection.  So, Im satisfied 
that Ms R was willing at the time to take some  risk with a portion of her money. 
Santander recommended  she split her money  equally  investing  £20,000  in a structured 
product which  meant it would provide the return of the money you invest if you leave it for 
the full term  as set out in the terms and conditions. This portion was recommended  because 
of its capital protection element. And the other  £20,000 in the Santander Max 70% Shares 
Portfolio fund in a stocks and shares  ISA. Having  looked at the make up of this fund, I can 
see that it broadly  invests in a mixture of fixed interest securities  (in other words corporate  
bonds, government  bonds and cash)  and equities   of which the majority are UK and 
European shares. So overall, including the portion of Ms Rs investment which had capital 
protection, only a quarter  of Ms Rs investment was exposed to market risk or significant 
fluctuations in value. Based on her willing to take some risk and her desire to achieve better 
returns that shed  obtain in a bank account,  Im satisfied that Santanders  recommendation 
was suitable. In addition, I note that Ms R enchased  her investment around six months later 
 but Santander did explain that she should  aim to keep your investment for at least  five 
years. If you cash in some or all of it, particularly in the early years, you may get back  less 
than you paid in. 
Ref: DRN21465023The evidence indicates Ms R was intending on taking  some risk with her investment  and 
given that she had ample money in cash,  and that half of the investment had a capital 
guarantee, Im satisfied  her attitude to risk was consistent with her overall  circumstances. 
And in any event, Im persuaded that when Santander wrote to her and explained  what  it 
considered was her attitude to risk, she wouldve  queried why it said medium if in fact she 
thinks it ought to have been  assessed  as low. So, I think  she must have been happy with it 
at the time. That means that I cant  fairly  say Santanders advice was unsuitable. 
Ms R had received  a lump sum payment  from her mortgage company which she says she 
didnt have an immediate  need for, so I cant say a long-term investment was unsuitable. 
Ms R says she wanted the money  for her pensions. The suitability letter  sets out what  Ms R 
told the adviser she wanted,  namely  her money  wasnt growing, and she was worried about  
inflation, she wanted something  that had the potential for growth, and something with a 
capital guarantee,  she didnt  need  the money and was happy  to keep it invested for a period 
of time, and she was happy for these  investments to pass to her kids. I think  Santanders 
recommendation matched these objectives.  
Ive listened to the telephone calls Ms R had with Santander when her stocks and shares 
ISA started  to lose money.  In October  2018, Ms R asked  Santander  to put a hold on trading 
her money in the stocks and shares ISA. Santander explained that this wasnt  possible and 
the only option, she had was to sell her investment. This isnt unreasonable  as Ms Rs 
money was invested  in a collective fund so it couldnt  tell the fund managers  to stop trading 
on Ms Rs behalf. Ms R said shed keep  her money  in the investment, but she would decide 
if her money fell below  £19,000. The next time Ms R contacted Santander about this was in 
December 2018  when her loss was greater and at this point Santander  did transfer her 
money into a cash only ISA. So, I cant say Santander did not carry out her instructions  when  
she asked it to. 
I note, Ms R says she wasnt provided  any further  advice when she had concerns over how 
her investments were  performing, but the suitability  letter did make  it clear that its fee was for 
the initial advice  and it did not offer an ongoing review. So, I dont consider it had any 
obligation to provide Ms R further advice  at the time. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2146502