K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies when he took out two unsecured  personal  loans in 1998 
and 1999.
background
In October  1998, Mr E applied for an unsecured  personal loan over one year for £1500 
(ending 8801). At the same time he bought  a single premium PPI policy  for which  he 
borrowed a further  £100.89. He paid for the PPI up front and interest was added  to it. The 
PPI would have  paid out for up to 12 months for unemployment and until the loan was repaid  
or the disability ended if Mr E made a successful claim for accident or sickness.
In August  1999  Mr E applied for a top up loan for £3500 (ending 8802)  over 2 years. This 
refinanced his previous loan. He also took out a single  premium PPI policy which  cost 
£308.08 at the same  time. This was paid for up front and interest was added to it. If Mr E 
made a successful claim it would have  also paid out for accident and sickness  until Mr E was 
well again or the loan was repaid. And if Mr E lost his job it would have paid out for up to 12 
months.
In 2000, Mr E made a successful claim on the 1999 policy. He received more than the 
amount he paid for the insurance  premiums-  so there was no financial loss to Mr E. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint about either policy  should be upheld. But he said 
in relation to the second loan ending 8802  there might be something else to consider about 
unfair commission.
Mr E disagreed with this view. He said he didnt think a single premium policy  was the best 
or cheapest  option available to him and that he wasnt  clear the PPI was optional - he 
thought the insurance was required and included as part of the loan agreement. And in 
relation to his claim he said that with roll up interest over 20 years his redress may exceed  
the amount he was paid out for his successful claim. He asked that his complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr E, but I havent  upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below.
The first thing Ive considered is whether  the PPI was optional. Mr E says he thought  it would 
help him secure  the finance. Nationwide  has been able to provide me with copies of both 
loan agreements. And for the 1998  sale Nationwide has also sent a copy  of Mr Es loan 
application form.
In 1998, the application  form isnt very clear but I can see that there  are some personal 
details filled in. And there is a section about  PPI headed Protecting Your Repayments. This 
section includes two boxes - yes and no and I can see that underneath  the yes section is a 
signature. Although its not so clear, I think this is likely the application form Mr E saw and 
Ref: DRN21289392completed as its dated correctly for the time of the loan. So I think  he would have known he 
could choose  the PPI or leave it if he didnt  want it. And so I also think he would have 
understood later in 1999, when he took out the second loan, that he could also choose  the 
PPI or decline it if he didnt want the cover.  I can see both the loan agreements  from 1998 
and 1999 set out the costs of the PPI separately under the column Optional Credit 
Insurance.  And I can see Mr E has signed  and dated the paperwork. And theres  nothing  
written on the documentation which would make  Mr E believe  he had to take it out in order  to 
get his loans. Overall,  I think Mr E chose the PPI and knew he could  decline it if he didnt 
want it. 
Theres nothing to make me think a tailored  recommendation was made about the PPI to 
Mr E. So I dont think Nationwide advised  Mr E to take the policies out. That meant it didnt 
have to check if it was right for his circumstances. But it still had to give him enough clear  
information so that he could decide for himself whether or not he wanted it.
Mr E has told us that the terms  of the insurance and the exclusions were not explained to 
him. Its possible  that Nationwide didnt give Mr E all the information  he needed. But this in 
itself isnt enough for me to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide  whether if Mr E had 
been given more or better information  hed have changed his mind. And I cant  say he would 
have done. I still think hed have bought both policies.
I say this as Mr E was eligible for both of the policies when he took them  out. And more 
information would have only shown him that he was eligible  and as he was working at the 
time and in good health he wouldnt have been  affected by any of the main limitations and 
exclusions set out in the policy which might  have made it more  difficult  for him to make a 
claim. 
In fact I can see Mr E made a successful claim in 2000  so it looks  like the policy would 
have been useful if things went wrong. And theres  nothing to make  me think it was 
unaffordable for him. 
Ive also looked  at the 1999 policy which replaced the 1998 policy. Sometimes a single 
premium policy might  not have been the right policy to take as it wouldnt have given Mr E 
any flexibility he needed when he took out the second loan; if for example he wanted to 
repay it early  or refinance. But this policy offered a proportionate refund which  meant he got 
back what he was due from the policy when it cancelled. And in 1998  this policy also would 
have given back Mr E a pro-rata refund. I can also see that the amount Mr E was paid out 
when he made a claim was more  than hed paid in premiums- so I dont think  he lost out 
here either.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr E about that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell Mr E, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ref: DRN21289393Ive thought about everything Mr E has said. But these points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr E any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr E any extra interest he 
paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr E the extra he paid each  month on the loan because  the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mr E paid if the loan was paid off early. Nationwide  should also pay Mr E 8%* simple  interest  
on the extra paid each month.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr E can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr E any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2128939