K821x#15complaint
Mr B and Mrs E had a mortgage with TSB Bank  Plc. They complain they couldnt take out 
further borrowing  under  their mortgage.
background
In 2016 Mr B and Mrs E took out a mortgage with TSB on a property they planned to 
renovate. They say TSB said they could  borrow more  money  when they needed it. 
In April 2018 they needed to borrow more money  but the option was no longer available. 
This was because TSB temporarily withdrew  the option because of uncertainties around its 
IT systems  upgrade. 
Mr B and Mrs E complained to TSB. They wanted  TSB to refund the costs they incurred 
when entering  into the mortgage with TSB, saying they wouldnt have entered into it if theyd 
known further  borrowing  wasnt an option. And they wanted a refund of any costs they might 
incur for moving their mortgage to another lender. 
TSB looked into the matter. It didnt agree to refund any costs Mr B and Mrs E incurred for 
entering into the mortgage,  saying these needed  paying for the mortgage  application to 
complete. And it said there was no guarantee further  borrowing would be provided. But TSB 
did agree  to waive the early repayment charge that would  apply  if their mortgage was repaid 
early, so that Mr B and Mrs E could remortgage with another  lender. And it offered them  £50 
in recognition of the inconvenience  theyd been  caused. 
Mr B and Mrs E didnt think this was fair so they complained to our service.  They  also 
arranged to move their mortgage  to another lender so they could take out the further 
borrowing they needed. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He thought, in summary, that:
-TSB had withdrawn the option of providing  further borrowing temporarily because of 
the uncertainties  around an IT systems upgrade, rather  than because of a change  in 
lending criteria. And this meant Mr B and Mrs E had to move  to another  lender  to get 
the borrowing  they needed,  which he didnt  think  was fair; 
-Mr B and Mrs E had received the mortgage  theyd applied  for in 2016,  so he didnt 
think it was appropriate to refund any costs associated with that; 
-Mr B and Mrs E ought to have been  able to apply for further  borrowing with TSB, and 
would likely have been successful had they been able to do so. So any costs  
associated with having to move their mortgage  to another  lender should  be refunded. 
But that as their new rate was better than their rate with TSB, a refund wasnt 
appropriate as they were  better  off overall;
-not being able to take our further borrowing with TSB had caused Mr B and Mrs E 
distress and inconvenience. He didnt think £50 was enough compensation to 
recognise this. So he recommended  TSB pay them £300  in total. 
TSB accepted the investigators findings. Mr B and Mrs E didnt.  They said they werent 
persuaded they would  be better off overall, and that even if they were, the savings theyd 
Ref: DRN26379512make would be spread  over a three year term, and there was no way of knowing what might  
happen in the meantime,  for example being  unable  to make their repayments on the new 
mortgage.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint was passed  to me to decide.  I issued a 
provisional decision explaining why I thought this complaint should be upheld.  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
TSB has accepted it withdrew the option of taking out further borrowing because of 
changes to its IT systems.  As I understand it, this was supposed  to be short term. But 
because the IT systems upgrade didnt go as planned the option to take out further 
borrowing was pushed  back.
Mr B and Mrs E wanted to take out further  borrowing in April 2018. They said they 
were told to try again in May. In May they were told to try again in June. By July they 
needed the further borrowing for their renovation, so they decided to move  to another 
lender. I dont think theyd  have  had to do this if the IT upgrade  had gone  as planned. 
So I think theyve lost out as a result. 
Mr B and Mrs E were  about two years into a fixed rate product with TSB when they 
moved to another lender. So if they hadnt moved they would  have continued to pay 
interest at 2.14%  on their mortgage. And if theyd been able to take out further 
borrowing, they wouldve  been paying  at a similar rate on that. This would have been 
for three years, with no other costs involved.  The total borrowing wouldve been 
about £211,000.
Mr B and Mrs E have now moved  to another lender and have taken out the further  
borrowing they needed. Theyre paying  interest at 1.78%  on the full amount 
borrowed, fixed for three years.  But there was a £999 product  fee, added  to the 
borrowing. The total borrowing was about £212,000 (including the product fee).
Putting this into an online fixed rate comparison tool shows  that if Mr B and Mrs E 
had stayed with TSB,  their repayments over the three year term would have been 
about £880 a month,  with total repayments over the term totalling about  £31,750.  
With their new lender, the monthly repayments  over the same term are about  £850 a 
month (which is what their new mortgage  offer says), with repayments totalling about  
£30,500. And the amount  owing at the end of each is about  the same. So I think  
theyre better off with their new lender by about  £1,250, even when taking account of 
the product fee theyve incurred. 
Mr B and Mrs E say they might not realise  the benefit of the lower  interest rate with 
their new lender. I agree this could be the case. But I cant make  a finding on what  
might happen in the future. 
This matter has caused Mr B and Mrs E distress  and inconvenience. They thought 
they could take our further borrowing, but then were told they couldnt. They were  
then led to believe theyd  have been able to apply for it soon, to then find out they 
couldnt. This wouldve been frustrating.  They were told they could move without 
incurring an early repayment charge, but were  given only a three month  time frame 
for this, causing them unnecessary pressure. They decided in the end they had to 
Ref: DRN26379513move to another lender,  which wouldve  been much more inconvenient than it would 
have been applying for further borrowing with TSB. And when they moved, they were 
given incorrect information  on redemption amounts, causing further frustration and 
inconvenience. I think, taking all of this into account,  £500 compensation more fairly 
reflects the impact this matter has had on them.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank Plc to pay Mr B and Mrs E 
£500 compensation (in total). 
Mr B and Mrs E accepted  my provisional decision,  and so did TSB.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties have  accepted my 
provisional decision I see no reason to depart  from it. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require TSB Bank Plc to pay Mr B and Mrs E £500 compensation 
(in total). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2637951