K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  placed a CIFAS marker  on her credit  file.
background
In May 2018  Ms L discovered her bank account  with a bank I will call N had been blocked  
and later it was closed. She discovered  Moneybarn had placed a CIFAS  marker on her 
credit file. She complained to this service and the matter was investigated by one of our 
adjudicators.
Moneybarn said she had applied  for a loan to buy a car in January 2016 and it received a 
signed finance agreement, a passport, a UK driving licence and a bank statement. All 
appeared to be valid,  but it was concerned about  the information contained in the bank 
statements and it contacted the bank.  It was unable to validate  the incoming payments. 
Moneybarn then made the CIFAS  entry to record receipt of a false or forged  document. The 
adjudicator obtained copy statements from Ms Ls bank and the entries  on those submitted 
to Moneybarn seemed  to have been  altered. 
Ms L said she had no connection  with Moneybarn  and couldnt say how it had been given 
what seemed to be genuine  documents,  including her passport  and driving licence. The 
adjudicator said the evidence  pointed  to her making the application for finance and 
Moneybarn was obliged  to report the fact that the bank  statements had been  altered. Ms L 
didnt agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed all the material provided  by Moneybarn and the application it received in Ms 
Ls name.  Everything  appears to be genuine including the bank statement. However,  it turns 
out that it was altered. Moneybarn has a responsibility to report  false material submitted for 
financial purposes and it has done so correctly.
The adjudicator asked Ms L for information  that would help show that she hadnt been 
responsible for the application,  but she didnt provide anything that would allow  him to 
conclude the had not been connected with it. It may be that she has been the victim  of 
identity fraud, but I have  seen no evidence to support  that.
It seems  Moneybarn  received a genuine application from a recognised broker  with copies of 
genuine documents. Therefore I cannot  say it was wrong to notify the credit reference 
agencies. If Ms L can supply any further evidence which shows  that she wasnt connected 
with the application she should  let Moneybarn know.
Ref: DRN23497892my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or reject my decision before 
1 September 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2349789