K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  that Millennium  Insurance Company Limited wont pay their claim 
for water damage and has retrospectively  applied endorsements to their policy on the basis 
that the property  wasnt  occupied  at the relevant time. The claim was dealt  with and the 
complaint handled by the loss adjusters though for convenience I shall refer to Millennium  
throughout.
background
In November 2016 Mr and Mrs R made  a claim for water damage to their property after 
heavy rainfall. They  had bought the property in October 2016  and the policy started  then. 
They intended to renovate the property but moved in whilst getting estimates from builders. 
They say that when the builders started work, around 8 November 2016, a lot of damage 
was discovered caused  by heavy rainfall. Mr and Mrs R reported a claim on or about  
16 November. Millennium  sent out loss adjusters who reviewed  the damage and the 
circumstances of the claim. They reported that Mr and Mrs R hadnt effectively been in 
occupation of the property  since they had bought it and that they had failed to give notice  
that they were  having extensive  building works carried out. 
Millennium determined that Mr and Mrs R had misrepresented facts  when taking out the 
policy. These concerned  whether they had been in occupation of their property and the 
failure to notify  it about the building  works.  Because of this it, it deemed the property  to be 
unoccupied, and applied an endorsement to the policy  and backdated it to the start, 
restricting cover on the policy to fire, lightning, explosion, aircraft and impact  only (FLEE 
endorsement) and legal liability to the public In respect of the building  work alone it said it 
would have applied  endorsements limiting liability for theft and where  damage  was caused 
by contractors.
Mr and Mrs R denied that the property was unoccupied.  They also said that the work  carried 
out to the property wasnt structural. Although they said they had told the broker about it, as 
required by the policy.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that Mr and Mrs R had most likely breached 
the requirement in the policy to tell the broker or insurance adviser if they were  to regularly 
leave the home unattended by day or by night.  She established that had Millennium known 
about this at the start of the policy, it would either have declined the risk or at the very least 
put the FLEE endorsement on. She further thought that Mr and Mrs R probably  hadnt told 
the broker about the work but should  have done.  So she thought  it wasnt  unreasonable of 
Millennium to apply the endorsements relating to theft and contractors  damage. 
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I didnt think the property was unoccupied 
before the builders  started  work in the property so Millennium should reconsider the claim in 
that respect,  and remove the FLEE endorsement. I said Mr and Mrs R should have told 
Millennium about the building work  so it was reasonable for it to apply  the endorsements 
relating to theft and damage  caused  by contractors 
Mr and Mrs R said they have nothing  further  to add.
Millennium said in respect of the FLEE endorsement  that having  requested  confirmation  
from Mr and Mrs R on a number of occasions,  the responses  provided  were vague and 
Ref: DRN26325592unsatisfactory. It therefore believed that the decision to retrospectively apply the 
endorsement was correct.
It asked me to note that the various  areas of water damage are believed  to be pre-inception 
(per the Mr and Mrs Rs own builders  opinion) and not related to either Storm  or Escape of 
Water from fixed  pipe or plumbing apparatus.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
These were  my provisional findings:
occupancy of the property
The policy says: 
You must tell your broker or insurance  advisor immediately if you
 stop using  the home as your permanent private  residence,
 regularly  leave the home unattended by day or by night,  or
 leave  the home without  an occupant  for more than 30 consecutive days.
When we receive this notice we have the option to change the terms and conditions of
this insurance.
The policy doesnt  require  notice to be given to the insurer but to the broker/insurance 
advisor. I think thats likely  to be because Millennium only sells its policies through  brokers  or 
advisors. But, in respect of the occupation of the property Mr and Mrs R havent  said they 
told the broker about it. Millennium  has found  that Mr and Mrs R hadnt  lived at the property 
since the policy was taken out on 12 October  2016. It bases this on the report following the 
loss adjusters visit to the property on or about  23 November
I think that any question  about the property not being occupied relates to the period between  
the start of the policy (12 October) to when the damage giving rise to the claim occurred. 
The latter was on or about 8 November  when the builders started work and discovered damp 
in the ceilings. I think this was accepted by Millennium, as the weather reports they obtained 
go up to around this time. If the property wasnt occupied by reason of the claim then that 
isnt relevant to whether Millennium  should be considering the claim.
The loss adjusters evidence is contained in his brief hand  written notes. When  he visited  the 
property the ceilings had been  taken down and the property partially stripped out. He 
indicates that Mr and Mrs R had said they intended to live there  as the property was to be 
done room by room. The note also said didnt  move in. Mr and Mrs R say that they never 
said they didnt  move in. And as the building work  didnt start until 8 November I think thats  
plausible. When the loss adjuster inspected it may very well have looked like it wasnt 
possible to live there.
As the claim arose when the builders started work, Mr and Mrs R have said they decided  
that they couldnt live there permanently. Indeed the loss adjusters note referred  to more 
work being uncovered and to Mr and Mrs R going  to live with Mrs Rs parents.
Ref: DRN26325593I think the conclusion  to be drawn from this is that its most  likely that Mr and Mrs R were 
living in the property up until the start of the building work. They say they didnt move out 
until 20 November although  Mr R visited the property regularly after that. But even if I were 
to accept that Mr and Mrs R were regularly leaving the property unattended by night from 
8 November, that was the date they should have told Millennium about it. By reporting a 
claim they effectively did that. 
As I dont think that Millennium should  have  applied the FLEE endorsement I propose to 
require it to reconsider the claim.
notification of building work
The policy says 
You must tell your broker or insurance  advisor before you start any conversions,
extensions or other structural work to the buildings. When we receive this notice we have
the option to change the terms and conditions of this insurance.
When Mr and Mrs R took out the policy, via a price comparison  website  they replied, to the 
question Is there any structural building work or renovation underway  or due to take place.  
they replied no (as also set out in the statement of facts accompanying the policy when 
issued).
Mr and Mrs R say they told their broker although  that was after the proposal form was 
completed with the above answer.  They deny in any event that the work being carried  out 
was structural.
The broker  has no record of being  told about any building work. I think from Millenniums  
point of view that its reasonable to accept that. Though  if Mr and Mrs R want  to take that up 
with the broker  they can do so.
The above  term does  I think require structural work  to be notified, not redecoration  or 
refurbishment. Also the question asked at inception of the policy  refers  to structural  work.  
The work consisted in part of removing  an internal  larder  in the kitchen to make the room 
bigger. Also two bedrooms were to be converted  into one. Also some  ceilings were to be 
replastered (some were  then taken down after the claim damage), general  redecoration,  and 
replacement of floor coverings. And some  roof lights were  to be put in.
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs R had employed  a structural engineer who advised that putting in 
the roof lights wasnt structural. However they did have a reinforced  steel  joist (RSJ) put in in 
the bedroom. And their builders quote for the kitchen says knock  through  wall with steel.  I 
assume the latter applies to the repositioning of a steel  joist referred  to in the loss adjusters 
report.
I think it fair to assume that if a structural engineer is appointed, it is because  structural work 
is required. The term clearly refers to work to be carried  out; at the time such  work must 
have been anticipated. Creating one bedroom from two is conversion, as is the expansion of 
the kitchen. And I think the installation/moving  of RSJs is structural work. Mr and Mrs R have 
questioned the relevance of the bedroom  work as this isnt part of the claim.  But this 
concerns the reasonableness  of applying endorsements relating to building work. These 
were:
Ref: DRN263255945 Contractors exclusion  clause
This insurance does  not cover loss, damage or liability arising  out of the activities  of
contractors.
20 Theft limitation clause
This insurance does  not cover theft or attempted  theft from the home other than as a
result of violent and forcible entry or exit.
As I think  the proposed building work should have been notified when the policy  was taken 
out, and/or before  the building work started, it was reasonable to apply the above  
endorsements back to the start of the policy. Although the endorsements  apply this doesnt 
affect my finding that Millennium should  reconsider the claim.
right to apply endorsements
Mr and Mrs R have queried  Millenniums legal right to apply  endorsements retrospectively  to 
their policy.  
In this case Mr and Mrs R didnt disclose  that they were having building  work carried  out. 
And they didnt give the appropriate  notice. The term Ive quoted reserves  to the insurer the 
right to change the terms and conditions on receipt  of such a notice.  I think it appropriate for 
the insurer to consider  what it would have done  had it received such a notice, and the fact of 
such work being done does change the risk. 
In respect of any representation made  at the start of the policy under the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012, where a qualifying misrepresentation 
has been made and that is deemed  to be careless, if the insurer  would have entered  into 
the consumer  insurance  contract,  but on different terms (excluding terms relating to the 
premium), the contract  is to be treated as if it had been entered  into on those different terms 
if the insurer so requires. (Schedule  1 para 6). I think it was fair to treat the 
misrepresentation as careless so I think it was reasonable to apply any endorsement 
retrospectively.
the claim
The claim is as I understand it for storm damage. The loss adjusters assessed  a lot of the 
damage as being  old and before the policy was taken out. As for whether there was storm 
damage at the time, as Millennium hasnt come to a conclusion about this it should now do 
so. I should warn Mr and Mrs R that storm damage might be difficult  for them  to show,  they 
can consult our website  to see what we would consider  as storm damage.
The loss adjuster did also refer to the fact that there  might be accidental  damage. Again 
Millennium should reconsider this. 
Nearly three years  on from the claim any damage, whether storm related or accidental, 
might be difficult  to assess. But I would expect it to be pragmatic about it and assess any 
damage sympathetically.
Millennium says Mr and Mrs Rs responses  to the occupancy point were vague and 
unsatisfactory. I disagree. They may not have appreciated exactly what  the terms of the 
policy were.  But they made it clear  that they were in occupation until the builders started 
work at which point the claim  almost immediately arose. It was unclear how much they were 
Ref: DRN26325595in occupation  after that but as I set out in my provisional findings, that isnt relevant  to the 
claim. I still think  that Millennium was unfair to apply the FLEE endorsement.
As for the actual claim, I pointed out some  of the difficulties  above. But it would be unfair of 
me to make presumptions  about  what damage  may or may not be covered as storm, 
accidental damage  or escape of water. Millennium  must now assess  this. And when said I 
expected it to be pragmatic about  it, I dont expect it to reject any part of the claim because  
of the difficulty of assessing it so long after the event. It will have to consider what parts of 
the claim it will pay based on its inspections  and evidence and any evidence Mr and Mrs R 
may be able to show it. 
Subject to that, my provisional findings  are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Millennium  Insurance Company Limited to:
remove the endorsement on Mr and Mrs Rs policy in respect  of the alleged  
non-occupation of the property at the time of their claim
reconsider their claim  for water damage in accordance with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2632559