K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mrs L says National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
NatWest has not been  able to provide the actual documentation from the time of the 
sale. As these events occurred over 18 years ago thats maybe not surprising.  But I 
think NatWest most likely made  it clear  that Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it. I say this because,  from what we know of how these policies 
were sold by this business at the time, I think its most likely that to get the cover 
Mrs L would have  had to agree to the cover and she would have had a choice about 
doing that. Ive also considered that the cost of the cover shows  up clearly on Mrs Ls 
monthly statement  from October  2001  as Credit Card Repayment Protection. So, if 
Mrs L hadnt agreed to the PPI as she says now, then I think  her statements would 
have put her on notice  that she was then paying for something she hadnt agreed  to. 
And I think it most likely that in those circumstances she would have raised  this as a 
complaint point with the business  many  years before she eventually did. So, overall, 
it seems most likely that Mrs L did choose the cover and did so knowing she had a 
choice about it  although I can understand why she cant  remember this now,  many 
years later
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs L got the information she needed to decide 
if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy  would cost.  But based on 
what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it seems  she was eligible for the 
policy and it doesnt look like she was affected  by any of the exclusions  from or limits 
to the PPI cover. And Ive considered that Mrs Ls sick pay was only guaranteed for 
up to six months, after which it was at the discretion of her managers. But this policy 
could have paid out for up to 12 months  if Mrs L was too ill to work for a long time, or 
if she lost her job. So as the policy would have  paid out for longer  than Mrs Ls 
employer would  have  paid her sick pay, I think the policy  would have been useful to 
her if something went wrong. I have considered that Mrs L also told us about  some 
savings she had at the time. And, considering all of the above, I dont think  better  
information about the PPI and its cost would have  put Mrs L off taking out the cover. 
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
Ref: DRN20153932But NatWest  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because: 
NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about  that. Because  NatWest didnt tell Mrs L, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit  share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
NatWest has to pay back to Mrs L any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. NatWest should also pay back  to Mrs L any extra  interest Mrs L 
paid because of that.
NatWest should  re-work  the credit  card account  and pay back  to Mrs L the difference  
between what Mrs L owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NatWest  should also pay Mrs L 8%* simple  
interest if Mrs L paid off her credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs L can claim  back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mrs L any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2015393