K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received from the Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (the Bank)  
when he tried to submit a Section 75 Consumer Credit Act claim. He would like the Bank to 
change their policy of not allowing such claims to be made  by online.
background
On 16 November 2018, Mr B telephoned the Bank wishing to raise a dispute under s.75 
regarding a transaction he had made  on his credit card. He asked for an email address to 
submit his claim documentation to. He was asked to send the details by post, but Mr B 
explained he couldnt print the material as he didnt have a printer. The agent  he spoke to 
suggested he visit his library and use the public printer  there.
Mr B was unhappy with this response, as he wished to upload  his documents, some of which 
were photos,  and so he made a complaint. He makes the point that the Bank breached its 
own policy on Accessibility,  arguing  that the Bank say one thing with regard to their s.75 
process but then have  a different policy for Accessibility purposes. He points out that the 
Banks Accessibility policy promotes the use of technology to make it easier for 
disadvantaged people, but then doesnt allow for the use of such technology in s.75 claims.
The Bank confirmed  that it had taken  a commercial decision  not to offer a service  for its 
customers to submit  s.75 claims online and re-iterated that he would need to post his 
documentation to them.
Mr B was unhappy with the Banks response and so an investigator from this service  looked 
into the complaint  but didnt think the Bank  had done anything wrong. Mr B disagreed with 
that view and so the matter has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will not repeat the investigators summary of the background to this complaint because it is 
accurate and full and I want  to avoid repetition. But, if it appears that I havent mentioned 
something it is not because I have  ignored  it, but because  I dont  think its relevant to the 
issues I have to decide.  
I do understand Mr Bs argument, but what I need  to decide is whether the Bank  acted fairly 
and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr B. I must of course make it clear that the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is to resolve  individual complaints and to award redress  
where it is appropriate so to do. I do not perform the role of the industry  regulator,  and nor I 
do not have the power to make rules  for financial businesses, punish  them,  or direct  that 
they change their processes. This is not a court service and my aim is to ensure that a fair 
and reasonable outcome has been  achieved. 
Mr B has not explained the nature or degree of any disability he has, nor how the Banks  
policy of requiring a postal  submission of a s.75 claim affected  him directly. His argument  is 
put in a generic way by reference to how such a policy might affect disabled or 
disadvantaged people. I am therefore  unable to determine whether Mr B has in fact been 
adversely affected  by the Banks policy.
Ref: DRN24526512As I have said my role is to decide  whether the Bank  acted fairly and reasonably  in how it 
dealt with Mr B. The evidence is that the bank was not aware that Mr B was disabled  or 
disadvantaged in any particular way. Their  policy  of requiring submission of s.75 claims by 
post was commercially driven and not something this service  can interfere with. They  are 
entitled to adopt that procedure. 
Without any further evidence as to how Mr B may have  been directly affected by their policy I 
cannot say they have  treated Mr B unfairly. I have  noted that the general  concerns Mr B has 
raised have been  fed back to the Bank  and it is now a matter for them how they choose to 
deal with that. I am confident that the Bank will give his concerns due consideration now that 
he has raised them.
So I cant say that the Bank has done  anything wrong  and Im not satisfied that the Bank 
have treated Mr B unfairly, and so Im not upholding  his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Ireland (UK) 
Plc.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2452651