K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains about the way that Klarna  Bank  AB has dealt with her credit account.
background
Ms C opened a credit account with Klarna Bank in May 2018 and used it to buy a mattress  
online for £550 on an interest free basis. She says that she didnt  receive any payment 
information and that interest  and charges were applied to her account. She complained to 
the retailer and then to Klarna Bank. She was told that the mistake had been  rectified  and 
that all late fees and interest  would be removed but when she checked her account she was 
still being charged interest. She wasnt satisfied with Klarna Banks  response  so complained  
to this service. Klarna Bank then offered to give Ms C a £20 shopping  voucher.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She was satisfied that 
all interest and charges  had been removed from the account and that the outstanding 
balance was correct.  But she said that Ms C had contacted Klarna Bank  and the retailer  to 
try and rectify  the issue  since May 2018 and she didnt think that a reasonable person would 
expect it to take more  than twelve  months  to resolve  an administrative issue.  She said that 
there was no dispute that Klarna Bank had made  mistakes and she said that it should pay 
£100 compensation to Ms C for the time that it had taken to resolve them and the 
inconvenience that it had caused.
Klarna Bank  has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that 
its not in a position to pay compensation of £100 as no financial distress was caused to 
Ms C but its still willing to give her a £20 shopping  voucher.  Ms C has asked for confirmation 
that she was charged £550 for the mattress as her account shows that she was charged  
£579.01.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider it to be clear  that Klarna Bank has made  mistakes in connection  with Ms Cs credit  
account. The account was opened in May 2018 and Ms C used it to buy a mattress. She 
complained to the retailer and Klarna Bank about issues with her account and she 
complained to this service  about those issues in March 2019. The investigator said in 
October 2019 that she was satisfied that all interest and charges had been removed and the 
outstanding balance was correct. Klarna  Bank  has provided account statements which  show  
that Ms C was charged £550 for the mattress  and Ms C has checked her credit  score and 
says that Klarna Bank hasnt recorded any adverse information about her account  on her 
credit file. 
I dont consider it to be reasonable that it took Klarna Bank as long as it did to correct  the 
mistakes that it had made on Ms Cs account. Ms C has described the distress and 
inconvenience that shes been caused by those mistakes and its failure  to properly correct 
them. I dont consider the £20 shopping voucher that Klarna Bank  has now offered to Ms C 
to be adequate compensation for that distress  and inconvenience. I agree  with the 
investigator that compensation of £100  would be fair and reasonable for the distress and 
inconvenience that Ms C has been  caused in these  circumstances.
Ref: DRN23507852my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Ms Cs complaint and I order  Klarna Bank AB 
to pay her £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes been  
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2350785