K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the cancellation fee hes been charged by Saga Services Limited after 
he cancelled  his contents insurance policy.
background
In November 2018 Mr S cancelled  his policy with Saga since hed moved.  He said hed paid 
the premium up to the date of cancellation.
Saga said he owed it £73.96. This was broken  down  as follows:
 £
Arrangement fee  25 00
Cancellation fee  35.00
Legal expenses  cover  27.50
Time on cover    6.25
Charge for credit    1.12
Total amount due  94 87
Less amount paid  20 91
Total amount outstanding.             £73 96
Mr S doesnt  think these charges are fair. He also says he moved in June 2018 and didnt 
agree for his policy to be renewed  with Saga in September  2018. He says he didnt receive 
the policy which Saga says it sent him by post even  though his post is redirected to his new 
address.
After Mr S brought his complaint to this service,  Saga agreed to waive  the cancellation fee of 
£35. That meant  Mr S owed it £38.96. Our investigator thought  that was fair.
As Mr S didnt agree,  the matter has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like these I consider whether the insurer has acted in line with the policy  conditions  
and fairly  and reasonably.
Mr S took out his policy online  in 2014. He agreed  to pay by direct debit and that meant  it 
would renew automatically until he cancelled the policy. Since  consumers often prefer that in 
order to avoid the risk of overlooking renewal  and being left uninsured,  I dont think it was 
unfair for the policy  to renew automatically.
On 6 September 2018 Saga wrote to Mr S telling him that his policy was due to renew on 29 
September 2018. The letter said:
As you have chosen to pay by Direct Debit we will automatically renew your policy for you. 
If you do not wish to renew,  please tell us at least 3 days  before your renewal date to 
avoid payment being taken.
Ref: DRN28628132The renewal  documentation  included  a summary of the charges associated with the policy. It 
stated that there was an arrangement fee of £25 and the cost of legal expenses cover  was 
£27.50. It also made it clear there  was a charge for credit.
Regarding cancellation it said:
If you need to cancel  your policy
If you no longer feel the policy is right for you, you may cancel it within  14 days  of receiving  
your policy documents.  If cover has not yet commenced, you will receive  a full refund of the 
total cost. If the insurance cover has commenced, your insurer will give you a pro-rata 
refund on your premium  based on the cover  you have  had. The arrangement fee is non-
refundable. Please be advised that the Legal  Expenses with Cybercrime  Cover is non-
refundable after the first 14 days.
After the first 14 days, if the policy no longer meets your needs, you can still cancel at any 
time. As long as you have not made a claim under the policy,  or a claim has not been made 
against you, your insurer will refund the unused part of your premium. The arrangement fee 
is non-refundable. Saga will charge an administration fee of £35.
Mr S has provided evidence to show that hed moved home before that letter  was sent but 
Saga hadnt  been told about  that. I dont think its Sagas fault that Mr S didnt receive  the 
letter even though hed paid for a post redirection service.  Saga also sent Mr S an email  
about the renewal  on 20 September 2018.  I can see that it had the correct email  address for 
Mr S. Im satisfied that the information about  cancellation charges was sent to Mr S before 
the policy was renewed and that it was clear.  I dont think  its Sagas fault that Mr S wasnt  
aware that his policy had renewed.
Mr S didnt ask Saga  to cancel the policy until 5 November 2018  which  was more than 14 
days after it had renewed. I think the amounts charged are reasonable and have been 
correctly applied. So I cant say Saga  has done anything wrong or should  waive  any more of 
the charge, although I appreciate how hard it is for Mr S to pay the balance due.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2862813