K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation)  about the way its 
responded to a claim he made under section 75 Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (s.75).
background
In May 2015  Mr L entered into an agreement  to purchase a solar panel system from a 
supplier called My Planet.   It was paid for using finance provided by Creation and installed in 
June 2015.
Because Mr L paid for the system  using credit, Creation is responsible for 
misrepresentations and breaches of contract  to the same extent as the supplier.  
Represented by a claims management company (CMC), Mr L made  a s.75 claim to 
Creation as the supplier was no longer trading.
The CMC made several claim points,  but in summary said:
The supplier has ceased trading  and cant deliver the systems 10-year guarantee so 
there is a breach  of contract.
The system  was misrepresented as the supplier  said the energy savings and benefits 
would cover the cost of the finance  payments  and Mr L would receive  free electricity.
Creation failed to carry  out an appropriate  assessment  of affordability and Mr Ls 
creditworthiness.
Creation didnt uphold the complaint and explained the documentation clearly stated the 
performance of the solar  panel system was an estimate and not to be considered a 
guarantee.
Unhappy with Creations  response, the CMC  referred the complaint to our Service  on behalf 
of Mr L.
One of our investigators  looked into things and issued an assessment recommending  that 
the complaint  should not be upheld.  He noted  that Creation had carried out a calculation to 
show the likely benefit Mr L would receive  from the system over the 10-year term of the loan.  
As that sum was greater  than the amount Mr L paid to settle the loan, he didnt feel any 
compensation was due.
The CMC disagreed.  It responded saying that Mr Ls complaint was not being considered on 
its own facts, and the calculation Creation had made was based upon the units of energy 
generated and consumed, rather than the cost of the system.
As no agreement could be reached, Ive now been asked to review  everything afresh and 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN27943102Its important to address  the point the CMC has raised about investigating Mr Ls complaint 
on its own facts.  Whilst this Service  aims  to be consistent and take account of wider general 
considerations, each  complaint is impartially reviewed and decided.   I must assure Mr L that 
whilst I understand hes likely  to be disappointed with the outcome of my decision I have 
reviewed everything provided  on his complaint  in deciding whats  fair and reasonable.
As Mr L purchased the system using finance with Creation, he is entitled to make  a s.75 
claim, as it is jointly and severally  liable to the same extent as My Planet.  Creation has 
accepted this.
The CMC raised concerns  that Creation failed to carry out an assessment  of 
creditworthiness.  Ive  not seen anything to suggest  the finance caused  Mr L affordability 
issues and I note that he settled the loan account  soon after the panels  were installed.  
Creation has also explained that its not possible for an individual to enter into a credit  
agreement unless an assessment has taken place,  and it uses a tool which assesses a 
customers circumstances.  Overall  Im satisfied Creation acted  reasonably in that respect 
and ensured it was appropriate  to provide Mr L credit.
So the issue  for me to decide is whether there was a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation.
the system guarantee
The solar  panel  system  was installed  in June 2015  and came  with a 10-year guarantee.  The 
CMC has said that as the supplier has ceased  trading,  the guarantee cannot be honoured 
and there  is a breach of contract.
As I understand it, the guarantee came  in the form of an Insurance  Backed Guarantee  
(IBG) for a 10-year term to match the loan.  In its final response  letter  to Mr Ls complaint, 
Creation provided  contact  details for the scheme  which would cover the guarantee in the 
event of a fault with the system.
Ive seen no evidence  that Mr L has needed to claim against the IBG due to any fault with 
the solar panel  system.  But in any event, Creation has confirmed that upon evidence  of the 
guarantee existing  and benefits provided, it would cover it under  its s.75 responsibilities.
So, I cant say theres  been  a breach  of contract in relation to the guarantee and I consider 
Creation has acted fairly toward Mr L in this regard.
misrepresentation
I understand that Creation  has made reference  to the purchase  agreement signed by Mr L in 
2015. The agreement  states that the estimate provided is given as guidance only , and 
should not be considered as a guarantee of performance.
It has also referred to the Customer  Satisfaction Note Mr L signed  following installation of the 
panels which states Any figures  are quoted for illustrative purposes  only and actual savings 
will vary accordingly to level of energy use.
But Mr L says the supplier,  My Planet, told him the savings and benefits hed receive from 
the system would pay to service the loan and itd be self-funding.  On balance,  I consider 
Ref: DRN27943103that likely  to be the case, and it was a key inducement for Mr L entering into the agreement  
to purchase the system.  So, I consider that expectation was likely represented to Mr L.
Creation carried out a calculation which it says shows  that over the 10-year term of the loan, 
the financial benefit Mr L would likely generate is £7,192.44.  As the cost for Mr L to settle  
his loan account was £6,988.66, Creations says the benefit is greater than the cost.
The CMC provided Feed-in-Tariff  (FiT) statements to show the annual  energy generation of 
Mr Ls system.   Having reviewed those statements and Creations offer,  Im satisfied it has 
calculated the benefits properly and they are in line with what Mr L was led to believe.
I understand the CMC says that measuring the energy  generation in kWh is not the same  as 
calculating the monetary value of the benefits  provided by the system.  And  for this reason, 
Creations calculations dont reflect the representations made  to Mr L by the supplier.  Whilst 
I appreciate the point  the CMC makes, the solar panel system generates  energy  which  can 
be measured, and it is that benefit  which can then be converted  to a monetary equivalent in 
the form of FiT benefits and cost savings on bills.
Taking everything into account  Im satisfied Creations approach to calculating  the benefit  is 
fair and reasonable, and the system  provides an expected monetary benefit in excess  of 
what it cost Mr L.  So, I cant say the system was misrepresented when it will in fact, have  
likely paid for itself at the end of 10 years.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ls complaint 
against Creation  Consumer  Finance Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2794310