K821x#15Complaint
Mr B complains about a car he got with finance  from BMW Financial Services  (GB) Limited 
trading as Mini Financial  Services (BMWFS). He says it went  in for repair  five times for the 
same issue  and still wasnt  repaired when  he voluntarily  terminated his agreement.
Background
In early 2016 Mr B got a new car. The cost was £25,044.14. He paid a deposit of £2,000,  
with the remaining balance financed with a hire purchase agreement  through BMWFS. His 
repayments were £370 a month over four years, with a larger final repayment if he wanted to 
keep the car.
Mr B says there were  several months  driving  without  any issue with the car. But, in 
January 2017  a warning light came on saying there was a problem with the cruise  control.  
He took the car back to the dealer who attempted a repair.  The problem reoccurred in 
February 2017, October 2017, November 2017 and January 2018. Each time the car was 
taken back to the dealer and a repair attempted to the system and/or the multifunction 
steering wheel.
In January 2018 Mr B contacted BMWFS to complain. And in February 2018 he wrote to 
them, saying he no longer wanted the car as hed lost faith in it. After  some further 
communication, BMWFS then responded in May 2018. It said it would not be offering 
assistance towards another vehicle  due to the age and mileage completed.  But, it offered to 
refund Mr B two monthly repayments.
Mr B didnt initially collect the car when it was repaired for the final time.  He says this was 
because the dealer couldnt confirm the fault wouldnt  occur  again. And, it wouldnt give him 
a certificate saying it was safe to drive. In July 2018, Mr B paid for a recovery  vehicle  to 
collect the car and bring it to his house. He says when the car arrived, the warning light was 
still on and the car hadnt been fixed.  He then voluntarily terminated the agreement,  paying  
BMWFS £2,407.90 to pay off his remaining liability.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Bs complaint. She said she thought the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. She asked BMWFS to:
refund  the redemption  fee of £2,407.90,
refund  the deposit of £2,000 and pay 8% simple  interest from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement,
pay two months repayments for loss of use, and
refund  the cost of a recovery vehicle
BMWFS disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. I sent BMWFS and Mr B 
a provisional decision  on 25 September 2019.  This explained that I thought BMWFS  should  
do something different  to put things right. My findings from this decision were as follows:
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  is relevant  to this complaint. This says that when Mr B got 
the car, the supplier (BMWFS) had a responsibility  to make sure it was of satisfactory 
quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect   taking into account 
things like the cars age, price, mileage,  description  and other relevant factors.  
Ref: DRN22860252So, I need to consider  if the car was of satisfactory  quality. The CRA explains that durability 
should be considered when determining  if goods were of satisfactory  quality. I need to think 
about this  along with the fact that the car Mr B got was brand new. So, I think  it shouldve 
been in mint condition and free from even minor defects.
In this case I think its quite clear there was a fault with the car that was ongoing.  I say this 
as the car was returned to the dealer five times over the period Mr B had it. From the notes 
from the dealer,  Im satisfied this was the same issue on each occasion.  So, I need to decide 
if the fault meant that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply, or if the fault 
was due to normal  wear and tear.
In response to the investigators view, BMWFS said they believe the car was of satisfactory 
quality as it covered  over 15,000 miles before it needed a repair  so it said there was no 
evidence of a fault at the point of supply. But, I dont think its considered the durability of the 
car. Its important to point  out that the cruise control  system isnt a part of the car that I would 
expect to suffer from wear and tear so soon into the agreement. So, I think  a reasonable 
person wouldnt  have expected this would need repairing at the age or mileage it did. It 
follows that Im satisfied this means the cruise  control system wasnt reasonably durable. 
And, Im satisfied this means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
BMWFS said that Mr B had gone over his mileage allowance when the car needed  
repairing. But this has no impact on Mr Bs rights under the CRA. And, while  Ive considered  
the mileage covered in the car, whatever mileage Mr B selected on the agreement  doesnt 
affect how I would consider  durability.  So, this doesnt change  my opinion.
I now need to consider  what  would be fair and reasonable to put things right. Ive thought 
about what our investigator  recommended. But, Im not sure she considered  that Mr B had 
no use of the car since the final repair.
Its important to note that in this case Im satisfied its most likely the fault wasnt repaired at 
the final attempt.  I say this as Mr B told us the warning  light was still on when the car was 
recovered to his house. Hes also told us that the dealer  told him they couldnt promise the 
repair would sort out the issue. Ive considered this, along with the fact that an attempted  
repair had failed four times already at that point. And Ive considered what  the final two 
repairs did. Looking at the notes from the dealer, the last two attempts at repair both 
involved roughly  the same  thing.
The last two repairs involved the coil spring and an issue  with control unit for steering 
column switch cluster. Its clear this attempted repair didnt work the first time. So, thinking  
about this along with what Mr B said, I think its most  likely there was an underlying  fault with 
the car and the final repair didnt fix this.
I think there was an underlying fault with the car which meant it was of unsatisfactory quality. 
And several  attempts at repair  had already been  carried out when Mr B asked to reject the 
car. So, I think BMWFS  shouldve  allowed  Mr B to reject the car when he complained to it 
and asked to return it. As far as Im aware, he had no use of the car since the repair  was 
attempted in February 2018. So I think he should  get back all of the repayments he made to 
the agreement  since this point. And, had BMWFS allowed him to reject the car, he wouldnt  
have had to pay the redemption fee. So I think its fair he should  get this back.  Mr B also 
paid for a recovery vehicle to collect  the car from the dealers which he wouldnt have  had to 
pay out for. So I also think he should get this cost refunded.
Ref: DRN22860253Finally, listening to what Mr B has said, Im satisfied hes suffered distress  and 
inconvenience because  of what went wrong. He had to take time out to take the car to the 
dealer several  times. I think it wouldve been very stressful  having a repeated error with his 
car. And, he told us he was only offered a courtesy car on one of the occasions  the car went  
for a repair,  so it appears he was paying for the car for around half a month when he couldnt  
use it. I think BMWFS should pay him £485 to reflect  this.
I gave both parties a month to come  back with any more evidence or comments.  Mr B said 
he was happy  with the provisional decision. BMWFS didnt respond.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think this complaint 
should be upheld  for the reasons explained above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  BMW Financial Services  (GB) 
Limited trading  as Mini Financial Services to put things  right by doing the following:
Refund Mr B the deposit of £2,000*
Refund Mr B the redemption fee of £2,407.90*
Refund Mr B all repayments made towards the finance agreement from 12 February 
2018 to when the car was returned*
Reimburse Mr B £192 for the cost of recovering the car on 10 July 2018*
Remove any adverse  information about the agreement from Mr Bs credit file
Pay Mr B £485 for the distress and inconvenience caused
*These payments should have 8% simple interest  added from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.  If HM Revenue & Customs requires BMWFS to take off tax from this 
interest, BMWFS  must give Mr B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2286025