K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that BUPA Insurance Limited has refused to pay for medication under his 
private medical insurance policy.  
background
Mr K needed  surgery on his knee. BUPA partly funded  this procedure. Subsequently,  Mr K 
developed deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and was prescribed medication for this. He asked 
BUPA to cover the cost of this medication,  but BUPA refused and said it was excluded  under 
the policy. Unhappy  with this, Mr K brought a complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She thought BUPA  had fairly 
applied the policy exclusion. 
Mr K didnt accept our adjudicators findings, so the matters been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy says:
We do not pay for any drugs or surgical dressings provided or prescribed for out-patient  
treatment or for you to take home with you on leaving hospital or a treatment facility.
The only exception to this relates to drugs prescribed for treatment of cancer. 
The medication prescribed to Mr K was part of his out-patient treatment which wasnt  for 
treatment of cancer. Im therefore satisfied BUPA was entitled to rely on the above exclusion 
and turn down  Mr Ks claim. 
Mr K says the DVT was a direct result of the surgical procedure  on his knee, which BUPA  
partly covered. He therefore thinks the treatment  for the DVT should be considered  a 
continuation of the overall treatment for his knee.
Whilst I appreciate Mr K developed DVT after his knee surgery, it remains  the case  that he 
was prescribed the drugs  on an out-patient basis, which means  they fall directly  under the 
exclusion. As the adjudicator has explained, these policies dont cover every eventuality  and 
BUPA has chosen  not to cover the cost of drugs  prescribed for out-patient treatment. 
Whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, I dont think BUPA has done anything  wrong. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN20521752Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019. 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2052175