K820x#14complaint
Mrs W1 on behalf of the estate of Mrs W2 complains  that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
mis-sold Mrs W2 a Lifetime mortgage.
background
In 2001 Mrs W2 was sent a letter  about  Avivas (then Norwich Union) Equity  Release Plan  
a type of Lifetime mortgage. She then saw an adviser and this resulted her in taking out a 
Lifetime mortgage for £32,400 with £500  of this payable as an application  fee leaving 
£31,900 for her to use.
She invested £15,000 of this in a portfolio  bond  based on advice from the same adviser. 
Aviva reviewed this in 2006 and decided that Mrs W2 shouldnt have been advised  to invest 
part of the mortgage amount. It offered to cancel the bond and reduce the mortgage by 
£15,000 plus the accrued interest on that amount, and Mrs W2 accepted  that offer. The 
advice to invest in the bond is the subject of a separate complaint that I have considered.
Mrs W2 sadly  died in 2017  and as a result  of this Mrs W1 became aware of her having  taken 
out the Lifetime mortgage and she subsequently complained to Aviva. It didnt  uphold  her 
complaint. It said that the advice to take out a Lifetime mortgage was suitable,  although the 
amount was too much as it accepted in 2006. It said the documentation  Mrs W2 was given 
at the time, which she discussed with her solicitor,  clearly explained the terms and conditions  
and that compound interest would be added.
Aviva explained  that as mortgages arent underwritten  there  is no need for a medical  
assessment. It acknowledged  it had a responsibility to make  sure an applicant  had the 
capacity to contract and said that is why Mrs W2 received independent legal advice from a 
solicitor.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
short she made the following points:
Just because Mrs W2 took out too much money  doesnt mean the whole mortgage  
was mis-sold.
She had seen no evidence that Mrs W2 didnt need or want  the money and it 
appears she has spent it. She didnt  need to spend it on exactly what was listed  in 
the fact find.
She didnt appear to have access to this kind of money through  other means.
She was in considerable debt which must have put a financial strain on her.
She appeared to have only £165  available each month taking account of the amount 
paid towards her debts.
She didnt have many options to improve this situation and it seems  perfectly 
reasonable that someone in her position might  want to borrow money  to either  
reduce her debts  or pay for things she couldnt otherwise afford.
Aviva  wasnt  responsible for her overall  wellbeing or financial management.
Aviva  couldnt have known about  Mrs W2 health  or that she didnt have capacity to 
make the decision to borrow the money  when her family themselves werent aware  of 
this.
She has seen no evidence of the high interest  saving  account Mrs W1 said the 
adviser got Mrs W2 to open  with £8,000 of the borrowed money.
Ref: DRN20766962It was clearly pointed out that the adviser only represented Norwich  Union (now 
Aviva).
Mrs W1 didnt agree with the investigator. She provided a response  dealing with both this 
complaint and the linked  complaint about the advice to invest  in the portfolio bond. I have 
summarised what I think are the key points she has made with regard to this complaint 
as follows:
What the adviser did in advising  Mrs W2 to take out the mortgage and then invest  
part of it in the portfolio bond  was more than mis-selling and was tantamount to 
fraud. 
Aviva  instigated the sale of the mortgage  by sending a letter  to Mrs W2 in 
January 2001  about the Lifetime mortgage.
The advisers visit to Mrs W2 at home  shouldve  been to provide information  but 
he duped  her into taking  out a loan of £32,400 with interest at 8.25%
This was on the pretence  she needed  a new car when  she didnt need one and 
the amount was far more  than necessary for a car.
All 71 year old people are vulnerable.
The investigator has implied that Mrs W2 lied to get the loan to pay off her debts 
which is unbelievable.
It is disturbing that we wont acknowledge the seriousness of the two visits made 
by the adviser.
The adviser had already  planned to sell Mrs W2 the portfolio bond as there  was 
no need for him to ask about her investment experience in the first meeting when 
the mortgage was being discussed, as he did. This is also evident from his letter  
of 22 March 2001.
Mrs W2s financial  welfare and long term financial planning was the last thing on 
the advisers mind  and he didnt care about  the repercussions of his actions.
On the second  visit in May 2001 not only did the adviser get Mrs W2 to invest  in 
the portfolio bond  he also got her to put £8,000 in a new savings account. After  
this visit she was left with access to only £8,299 out of the £32,400 borrowed.
Instead of improving Mrs W2s lifestyle, as promised in the letter of January 2001, 
Mrs W2s financial  situation deteriorated  drastically.
When Aviva reviewed  matters in 2006  it didnt put Mrs W2 back in the position 
she shouldve been in because she still owed £25,929.
The adviser had to sell the mortgage  first so he could then advise her to invest in 
the portfolio bond.
Mrs W2 didnt have the benefit  of the £32,400  as three  quarters of it was spirited 
away within a few days of having received it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to make clear that my findings and decision are made on a balance of 
probabilities  what is more likely than not  based  on the evidence that is available. So I am 
not saying what  definitely did or didnt happen and it is possible that something  different, to 
what I find, happened.
Ref: DRN20766963Mrs W1 has commented on the way Aviva contacted Mrs W2 initially. But there  was nothing 
wrong with Aviva sending  a marketing letter about this and this resulting in a meeting.
I understand Mrs W1 is upset by what she sees as the advisers deliberately misleading 
actions and that she believes Mrs W2 was taken advantage of. Given  it is agreed that she 
shouldnt have been advised to invest £15,000  of the money  she had borrowed it isnt 
surprising Mrs W1 feels the adviser  misled Mrs W2.
I also accept that Mrs W2s  risk appetite and investment experience werent  relevant  to the 
mortgage. Its possible the adviser  simply recorded Mrs W2s risk appetite as part of the fact 
find as he carried out a full financial review and this was part of the fact find document. But 
there is no obvious reason why the adviser  referred to Mrs W2s investment experience in 
the suitability letter of 22 March 2001  given the only need identified  was the Lifetime  
mortgage.
This, together  with the fact the meeting for the investment in the portfolio bond was arranged 
so soon after the mortgage money  became available, might suggest  that the adviser had in 
mind selling Mrs W2 an investment when he first met with her. But even if I accept that was 
the advisers intention  that doesnt necessarily  mean  Mrs W2 didnt want  the rest of the 
money for other purposes.
I acknowledge the point made  by Mrs W1 that the adviser had to sell the mortgage in order  
to sell the portfolio  bond. But it doesnt  follow that the only reason the adviser  sold the 
Lifetime mortgage was so he could sell the portfolio bond given she invested less half the 
money she borrowed.
I acknowledge that the reasons set out in the fact find and suitability report may not be right 
and that Mrs W2 didnt  intend to buy a new car or spend money  on the house. But there  is 
no way of knowing now whether this is something  Mrs W2 told the adviser or something he 
suggested should be put down on the fact find. 
It is clear from the evidence I have seen  that Mrs W2 was not in a good  position financially. 
The fact find recorded  that she only had net monthly income  of around £165 available after 
deduction of her outgoings.  But I dont  this provides a full picture given  a large part of the 
deductions appear to be the servicing  of existing debt. So she doesnt appear to have had 
very much spare cash available to pay for day to day things  and any luxuries she might 
want.
I think this is also shown  by two bank statements Mrs W1 has provided from November 2000 
and February 2001 both of which show Mrs W2s actual outgoings  over those months  were  
above the money she received each  month. So I think it is more likely than not that she was 
living beyond her means at least some  of the time.
Mrs W2 had few other, if any, options  if she wanted  to improve  her financial position given 
she had no way of increasing her income and she was having to pay a significant amount  
each month  to service  existing debts. I have seen no persuasive  evidence that a Lifetime 
mortgage for £16,900 wasnt  suitable for her in the circumstances  given  her financial 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN20766964I realise that it might seem odd to increase the overall debt by taking out a mortgage. But a 
Lifetime mortgage doesnt require the borrower  to make ongoing payments as would  have to 
be made for a credit card or other  type of borrowing. It would only have to be repaid on 
death, moving house or on having to go into long term care. 
Mrs W1 has suggested that the Lifetime mortgage  made Mrs W2s financial situation worse. 
But given she didnt  have  to pay anything towards  this and the most likely outcome was that 
the mortgage and interest  would be repaid on her death or on going into long term care I 
dont think it did worsen her actual financial situation at the time. 
The adviser wasnt responsible for Mr W2s financial  welfare or long term financial planning. 
The fact find shows she didnt want any advice other than in relation to the Lifetime 
mortgage and his responsibility was in relation to making a suitable recommendation for that 
not anything else.
Mrs W1 has referred  to an account Mrs W2 opened  in May 2001 the same day she saw the 
adviser into which she transferred £8,000 from another account,  being part of the mortgage 
amount. But I dont think this provides any evidence the mortgage wasnt suitable.
The statements  Mrs W1 has provided in relation to that account show she transferred a 
further £5,000 by way of transfer before  then transferring a total of £8,000  out of the account 
by the end of November  2001 leaving £5,000 in it. 
The fact Mrs W2 opened another account and transferred money in and out of the account 
over a six month period in 2001 isnt evidence she didnt need  or want a mortgage for 
£16,900.
I note what Mrs W1 has said about  Mrs W2s health and the issue she has raised about her 
ability to understand  what  she was agreeing to in 2001 and the medical records  she has 
provided in support of this. But the adviser  didnt have the medical records and I have seen 
no evidence that suggests he shouldve been aware that Mrs W2 might  not have been able 
to understand  what she was agreeing  to.
Mrs W2 also had to take independent legal  advice about the Lifetime  mortgage  so there was 
an independent person  who had to satisfy themselves  that Mrs W2 was able to understand 
the mortgage. If the solicitor didnt identify any issue with Mrs W2 understanding  there is no 
basis for saying this is something the adviser  shouldve picked up on.
In summary,  although Mrs W2 didnt need to borrow £32,400, in particular didnt need the 
£15,000 invested in the portfolio  bond,  there isnt any persuasive evidence  that she didnt 
need or want to borrow £16,900 and no evidence that she didnt use this money for her 
benefit. 
In the circumstances Im unable to say it is more likely  than not the mortgage was mis-sold.  I 
am only able to say that she didnt need  the money invested in the portfolio bond. But Aviva  
dealt with this in 2006 and it is the subject of a separate complaint which I have  also 
provided my findings and decision  on
Ref: DRN20766965my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W1 on behalf  
of the estate of Mrs W2 to accept  or reject  my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2076696