K820x#14complaint
Miss K has complained  about  how Skyfire Insurance  Company Limited (Skyfire) recorded 
an incident that took place  in 2013.
background
In December 2013 Miss Ks parked car was hit by another  vehicle. She told Skyfire  (her 
insurer) about this. As neither  party  made a claim, and nothing was paid out, Skyfire  
recorded this as a non-fault claim on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE). Miss Ks no 
claims discount was unaffected.
Miss K has said that, in 2018,  her current insurer  told her that her premium was increasing  
and the entry on the CUE  might be the reason  for this. Miss K has complained that all of her 
insurance premiums since leaving Skyfire have been higher than they shouldve  been 
because of the way the 2013 incident was recorded. She wants  Skyfire to compensate  her 
for these  higher  premiums. Skyfire have  changed  the entry on the CUE to notification only 
but have said Miss K needs to approach her other  insurers for any backdated  refunds she 
may be entitled to.
Our adjudicator said that insurance  companies  consider a multitude of factors  when they 
calculate an insurance premium, and its not compulsory for them to check  the CUE. Also, 
some insurers consider non-fault claims and notification  only incidents to be the same thing. 
Because of this, he felt there were too many  variables to say that the way Skyfire reported 
the December  2013 incident had had a negative  impact on Miss Ks subsequent premiums. 
He didnt think Skyfire  should do anything more.
Miss K didnt agree with the adjudicator and has asked that an ombudsman  make a decision 
in this case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Miss Ks parked car was hit by another vehicle  and neither party  claimed for any damage. 
Skyfire recorded  this as a non-fault claim and her no claims discount was unaffected. By 
recording it as a claim, this indicates  that a claim had been made which  wasnt the case. 
This shouldve been  recorded as notification only from the start. But Skyfire have now put 
this right so I wont be asking them to make  any further changes  to the CUE.
How insurers  calculate their premiums  can be complex, and will take into account  a number 
of different  factors. Different  insurers rate risk different ways, so what  one insurer  will alter a 
premium for may not be the same with other insurers. Also an insurer may change  how they 
calculate premiums, and what factors they consider, on a year to year basis.
Miss K has said that her current insurer has significantly lowered her premium since the 
CUE has been amended. I dont doubt  that her insurance premium has altered, and this 
alteration coincides with the change to the CUE. But Ive not seen anything to show that the 
change to the CUE was the only reason Miss Ks premiums were reduced.
Ref: DRN20349762I havent seen  anything to show that Miss K has paid higher premiums in the past purely 
because of the CUE. I also havent  seen anything that shows  me that, if the CUE had shown 
the incident as notification  only from 2013,  Miss Ks premiums would definitely have been 
lower than they were.
While I appreciate that Miss K will be disappointed  by this, I cant say she has been charged 
higher premiums than she otherwise wouldve been just because of what was recorded  on 
the CUE.  Because of this, I agree with the adjudicator that Skyfire dont need to do anything 
more.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint and I wont be asking 
Skyfire Insurance  Company Limited  to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 October  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2034976