K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
background
Mrs T opened a store  card account  in a shop in 2002. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Mrs Ts card each 
month if shed been unable  to work  because  of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job. It 
also included purchase protection  insurance and life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. FICL disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs T 
and to FICL  on 14 February 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
Id seen a copy of Mrs Ts application form for the store  card, which  our adjudicator  
hadnt been sent by FICL when  he gave his view on the complaint. It includes a section 
headed Protecting your Account.  It says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account Cover  (a form of PPI), and it continues  Please debit my Account with the 
relevant monthly premiums  until further  notice.  Theres a space to sign, with instructions 
only to sign if the applicant  required Account Cover. Mrs T signed  specifically to indicate 
that she wished to take the cover.
Taking everything into account,  I was satisfied that Mrs T would have realised that the 
PPI wasnt compulsory. And I thought she decided to take the cover,  knowing that she 
had a choice  although I could understand why she may no longer remember  this, so 
many years later.
FICL  didnt advise Mrs T to take out the policy. This means  it didnt have to check if it 
was suitable for her. But it did need to make  sure it gave Mrs T enough information to 
enable her to decide  for herself  if she wanted PPI, knowing what alternative means shed 
have had of making her monthly repayments if she was unable to work.
I accepted that it was possible the information FICL gave Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been. But I thought  shed  chosen to take out the PPI - so it looked 
as if she wanted  this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now.
Ref: DRN20254872Mrs Ts told us that she would,  at most, have been entitled  to statutory sick pay from her 
employer at the time. If shed  made  a successful claim on the policy for accident, 
sickness or unemployment,  it would have paid a monthly benefit  of 15% of what she 
owed on her store card. And it would have done  this each month until her credit  
agreement ended,  or she returned to work, or the outstanding balance at the time of her 
claim had been  repaid - whichever was the earliest. Whats more, it would have paid out 
in addition to any payments  she received  from her employer, including any redundancy 
pay if she lost her job, allowing her to use those to cover other day-to-day expenses. 
I acknowledged that Mrs Ts told us she had some savings. But shes told us these were 
equivalent to less than six months of her pay. So I thought the PPI could have been 
useful to Mrs T. And she wouldnt have had to use her savings to make her store  card 
repayments.
I accepted that its possible  the information  FICL gave Mrs T about the cost of the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But I was satisfied that it would  have been  clear 
from the application form that there  would be monthly premiums to pay for the cover. Id 
seen nothing to suggest that the policy was unaffordable for Mrs T. And as she was 
paying for it monthly, she could  have cancelled it without any further cost if her situation 
changed.
Id explained  above that I was satisfied that Mrs T chose  to take out the PPI - so it looked 
as if she wanted  this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten  that now. 
Based on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, she was eligible for the 
policy, and she didnt  appear to have been  affected by any of the main things it didnt 
cover (for example provisions about  unusual working arrangements or existing medical 
conditions).
Taking everything into account,  I wasnt convinced  that better information about  the PPI 
would have put Mrs T off taking it out. So I didnt think shed lost out as a result of 
anything that FICL  may have done  wrong.
Id taken into account all Mrs Ts comments,  including what her representatives  have 
said about there being a degree of pressure to complete the application quickly  when a 
card is taken out in store. They say this makes it less likely that the applicant  will read 
the application thoroughly. Theyve also pointed out that the application form was 
marked with an X next to signature  boxes. They say that this prompts the applicant to 
sign for something that they hadnt  had explained  to them,  and the applicant assumes its 
part of the store  card.
Id thought carefully about these points.  But the section about PPI was reasonably  clear  
and prominent  on the application form. And Mrs T signed specifically to take the cover. 
So I was satisfied that shed have realised  she was taking out the PPI. And if shed had 
any questions about it, or was unsure  whether she wanted it, Id have expected her to 
raise this at the time. So these points didnt  change my conclusion  that on balance, from 
what Mrs Ts told us, she wasnt  put under unfair  pressure to have the PPI.
So I was sorry to disappoint Mrs T, but for the reasons Id set out, my provisional  
decision was that I wasnt planning  to uphold  the complaint.
Ref: DRN20254873further submissions
Neither Mrs T nor FICL has made  any further comments, or provided any further information 
following my provisional decision,  and the time for doing so has now expired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Having done so, I cant see any reason to depart from the findings  I reached in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2025487