K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that Legal & General Insurance Limited  (L&G  Insurance) mis-sold 
them a monthly  premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  in 1998 when they 
applied for a joint mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs I complained  to this Service. They said the PPI was sold to them during a 
meeting; they said someone called Mrs T sold them the mortgage and the PPI at the same 
time. They said Mrs T told them Mr I would be covered by insurance no matter how he lost 
his job, so they bought  the PPI. Mr and Mrs I brought  their complaint against the PPI 
insurance underwriter,  L&G Insurance.
L&G Insurance said it wasnt responsible for the sale or for things said during the sale.  It said 
the PPI was sold by Mrs T from a company Ill call Company E; it says Mrs T was acting as 
an independent financial adviser selling the PPI to Mr and Mrs I at the time of this sale.  It 
said she was not selling  PPI on L&G Insurances  behalf. So L&G Insurance concluded it 
wasnt responsible  for looking  at this PPI mis-sale complaint.
Our adjudicator thought L&G Insurance was not responsible for looking at this complaint. Mr 
and Mrs I disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter  to be looked  at 
again. 
I issued my provisional decision in February 2019  and sent a copy of it to both parties for 
their comments. L&G Insurance had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs I pointed  out again: 
that they didnt  know  Mr I wasnt going  to be covered; 
they didnt  receive  any insurance documents because L&G Insurance  did not have 
their correct  postcode;  
as they did not receive any of the documents, they did not know  about the terms and 
conditions  yet L&G Insurance still took money  from them;  
they did not sign the agreement for auto-renewal.
I have not looked into the detail of these points  because  they are to do with the merits of Mr 
and Mrs Is complaint. In this decision,  I am only looking  at whether L&G Insurance is 
responsible for looking at the PPI mis-sale complaint. So as I have not seen any new 
evidence about  who sold the policy, I see no reason to change  the conclusions I made in my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account, along  with 
the law and good industry practice,  in deciding  Mr and Mrs Is case.
The first thing I need to decide is whether L&G Insurance is responsible for the sale of the 
policy. If I decide it is, then I can decide  whether the sale happened as it shouldve  done. If I 
dont think L&G Insurance was responsible for the sale of the policy  to Mr and Mrs I, then Im 
not able to say that L&G Insurance did anything wrong. This means I will not uphold  the 
complaint against  L&G Insurance.
Ref: DRN21719502In this case, I am intending to say L&G Insurance is not responsible for looking at this 
complaint so I will not be upholding the complaint  against  it. I know  this will disappoint Mr 
and Mrs I, so I will explain why.
In their evidence, Mr and Mrs I clearly said they were sold the PPI and the mortgage  by Mrs 
T from Company E. This is confirmed by the mortgage  application and the PPI application 
forms. Neither I, nor our adjudicator, have been able to find any evidence  on the documents 
we have seen,  or any evidence  from official  financial database records  or from Companies  
House records that Company  E was acting  as agent  or as an appointed  representative  of 
Legal & General Insurance Limited  to sell PPI. So I agree with our adjudicator  that L&G 
Insurance is not responsible for looking at this complaint.
I have also looked  at everything  Mr and Mrs I said about L&G Insurance not having their 
correct address. But Im not persuaded that any of this further evidence  helps me determine 
whether L&G Insurance was responsible for the PPI sale.
As I currently think L&G Insurance wasnt responsible for the sale,  it follows that it also 
wasnt responsible  for carrying out the sale properly.  So Im intending not to uphold this PPI 
mis-sale complaint against L&G Insurance.
I can see our adjudicator did a very thorough investigation for Mr and Mrs I because he 
explored all other avenues for their complaint. However - although  I am sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs I  this Service  cannot  take this particular  complaint any further against L&G 
Insurance.
my final decision
My final decision is that Legal  & General Insurance Limited did not sell this PPI and I do not 
uphold this PPI mis-sale  complaint against  Legal & General Insurance Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2171950