Ref: DRN2430271   
 
 
 
 
 
 
summary of complaint  
 
Mr R complains about investments he made through CSS Partners LLP (CSSP), an 
appointed representative of Charles Street Securities Europe LLP (CSSE).  
 
Until 2008 CSSP was an appointed representative of CSS Inc, however CSSE Europe have 
taken responsibi lity for CSS Incs and CSSPs actions. As Mr Rs complaint relates to a 
single financial service, I am satisfied that, in line with s234B FSMA, CSS Europe is the 
correct respondent firm in this case.  
 
If I dont consider further specification is required I ll collectively refer to all CSS entities as 
CSS for ease of reading.  
 
Mr R invested over £640,000 in shares of unlisted companies between 2006 and 2009. He 
says the recommendations CSS made were not in line with his stated objectives and were 
unsuitabl e for him.  
 
background  
 
Mr R became a client of CSS in 2006. He says he was led to believe CSS were handling 
shares in companies that were well known to them, had been thoroughly investigated and 
which they felt were sound companies that would soon be read y to be listed on the stock 
market. He was made to think the result would be a substantial increase in these companies 
share values which would be a good investment and would lead to capital growth which was 
Mr Rs investment objective.  
 
Mr R says he agreed for CSS to advise him on high risk investments for only 20% of his 
portfolio. He says this was later changed to 25% on a form but he didnt know why. He says he 
was given misleading advice on unsuitable shares which has led to at least 80% of his losses.  
 
CSS describes its role as providing equity and debt finance for early stage growth 
companies. It invests as principal and raises money through private placements via its 
appointed representative CSSP.  
 
Potential investors are contacted by CSSP and are asked to complete a reply card 
authorising CSSP to contact them to discuss their services. Interested investors would then 
complete a Private Client Agreement Form (CAF) which would allow CSSP to contact the 
investor at any time to disc uss possible investment opportunities.  
 
CSS says when companies approach them to raise finance they conduct due diligence 
checks and produce a memo with information about the company. CSSP would then contact 
the client and describe the investment opportuni ty. CSSP says no recommendations were 
given. They simply provided information about the companies Mr R could invest in and was 
for him to decide for himself whether the investment was right for him.  
 
Mr R first signed a client agreement as a private client  in January 2006. He then signed an 
agreement to be treated as an intermediate client a few months later in May 2006.  
 
CSS raised several objections to our service considering Mr Rs complaint including it was 
brought outside the regulators time limits an d that Mr R was an intermediate customer which 
meant this service didnt have jurisdiction to consider his complaint.  
 
 
K821x#15  
Ref: DRN2430271  
2  
  
 
 
 
 
 
I previously issued a jurisdiction decision in which I found the complaint had been made in 
time and that CSS didnt take reasonable care when they categorised him as an 
intermediate customer which meant he should have been treated as a private client. So I 
decided I could consider the merits of Mr Rs complaint  
 
I subsequently issued a provisional decision on the merits of Mr Rs complaint. My 
provisional decision was to uphold Mr Rs complaint. In summary I said:  
 
 CSS gave Mr R advice and so they had to make sure the investments they 
recommended were  suitable  
 
 In CSSs client agreement, Mr R indicated that he was prepared to accept a high level of 
risk in respect of 25% of his investments. I considered that the sens ible, objective 
construction to give to that term was that Mr R was prepared to accept a high level of 
risk in respect of 25% of the investments he made with or through  CSS.  
 
 This level of risk was breached straight away as all of CSS investments offered t o Mr R 
were high risk. However, in my view Mr R understood the level of risk he was taking and 
the implications of it. I thought he made an informed choice to invest purely in high risk 
investments through CSS and over time was prepared to invest in more h igh-risk 
investments than he originally  intended.  
 
 Whilst I thought Mr R was prepared to take this risk, as part of the suitability assessment 
CSS was also required to consider whether Mr R had the required capacity for loss. I 
thought CSS should have stop ped recommending high risk investments to Mr R when - 
based on the financial information they held for him -he was no longer able to reasonably 
bear the losses should those investments  fail. 
 
 Although the 25% term in the client agreement related to Mr Rs p reparedness to invest 
into high risk investments with CSS (which changed over time), I nonetheless thought 
25% was a reasonable measure for CSS regarding Mr Rs capacity for loss in the 
circumstances. I didnt think CSS could reasonably assume without furt her information 
from Mr R that his capacity for loss was than higher than  this. 
 
 CSS should have explained to Mr R when his investments reached 25% of his declared 
investment portfolio, that they considered he had reached a loss limit they thought he 
could nt reasonably afford to exceed given his financial circumstances and that in turn 
they would not be recommending any more high -risk investments to him as it wasnt 
appropriate. If they had explained this, I didnt think Mr R would have insisted on 
continu ing to invest in this  way. 
 
 Whilst Mr R was likely still interested in this type of investment, on balance I thought if 
CSS had raised the loss limit with him, he would have listened to CSSs concerns about 
the impact these investments could have on his fi nancial situation and invested in lower 
risk investments. In any event I didnt think he would have invested to the same extent 
into high risk investments as he did with  CSS.  
 
 I intended to ask CSS to compensate Mr R in respect of all investments which had  
breached the 25% capacity for loss limit by comparing them to the value they would 
have had using a  benchmark.  Ref: DRN2430271  
3  
  
 
 
 
 
 
A copy of my provisional decision with my full reasoning is attached and forms part of this 
final decision.  
 
Both parties were invited to provide further comments and information.  
 
In response to my provisional decision Mr R, in summary, made the following  comments:  
 
 He made some speculative investments prior to dealing with CSS, but when he had to 
invest the proceeds of his share of the sale of the family business and of a property, he 
felt he needed to take a more responsible investment strategy. He thoug ht CSS had the 
necessary expertise to safeguard his savings whilst giving him enough capital growth for 
his eventual retirement. This is why he only wanted 20% to be invested in high risk 
investments through CSS. He was encouraged to increase this figure t o 25% which he 
reluctantly did. There was definitely never any question that this should have a bearing 
on any other investments or assets that he might have  had. 
 
 References made to his knowledge and experience are misleading. His professional 
experience was very different from the world of developing business, industry and 
manufacturing  enterprises.  
 
 He doesnt know where the sum of £750,000 that is mentioned in the decision comes 
from. He believes the sale of his family business produced in the region of £225,000 
which was shared between him and his father and was made so his father could  retire.  
 
 If CSS had stopped recommending investments at any point, he would have sought the 
advice of a reputable established investment company. After his dealings with CSS, he 
put his pension funds into the hands of St James Place and Fisher Investments, both 
highly  reputable investment management  companies.  
 
 He would be pleased to return full ownership of the shares to CSS. He believes all his 
CSS holdings have a near negligible resale value. He is worried that CSS will have a 
creative and biased view on the valuati on of his shareholdings and queries whether 
third-party valuations can be carried  out. 
 
CSS, through their representatives, disagreed with my decision. In summary they said 
the following:  
 
 CSS considers they have been treated unfairly and have not been giv en sufficient time 
and opportunity to provide submissions. They say Mr R had been given two years to 
reformulate his complaint after a previous ombudsman decision was quashed by 
consent in January 2019. However, they had only been given three and a half we eks to 
respond to my provisional decision on the merits of Mr Rs complaint which they find 
unreasonable. They had been presented with a fait accompli in respect of each decision 
that was issued. They said they would challenge the jurisdiction  decision.  
 
With regards to the merits, CSS said:  
 
 The ombudsman imposed obligations on CSS that were unreasonably onerous. In 
concluding that CSS had a duty to decide the level of risk that Mr R could take (contrary 
to Mr Rs own wishes) and to deny him access to such  investments beyond that leveI, 
impose a duty on CSS which goes far beyond that of an investment adviser. A 
distinction is drawn between subjective and emotive attitude to risk and  objective  Ref: DRN2430271  
4  
  
 
 
 
 
 
capacity for loss. The distinction is unsupported by evidence and unjustifiable. An 
adviser or information provider has no business preventing its client from accessing 
potential investments, let alone a duty to do so.  
 
 The ombudsmans calculation of Mr R s objective capacity for loss is arbitrary and 
erroneous. She concluded that the capacity for loss is intrinsically linked to the 25% limit 
on high risk investments. However, if Mr R knew, as the ombudsman concluded, that all 
of the CSS investments recomme nded to him were high risk, then Mr R cant also have 
maintained a 25% risk threshold in relation to the same investments throughout the 
relationship with  CSS.  
 
 In any event the ombudsman has miscalculated the capacity for loss against Mr Rs 
portfolio. Sh e has failed without proper justification, to include the sale of Mr Rs 
business for £750,000 in the calculation of Mr Rs total portfolio. This asset was included 
for the deal on 10 September 2007. The ombudsman has not explained why CSS 
should have disb elieved Mr R when he informed them of the  sale.  
 
 The calculation based on capacity for loss against total portfolio would also have to 
allow for EIS income tax and loss relief. The ombudsman has not included this in her 
calculations.  
 
 Without a full and fr ank disclosure of Mr Rs actual value of his portfolio at the relevant 
times, the ombudsman cannot be in a position to say whether a 25% capacity for loss 
was in fact  exceeded.  
 
 The decision fails to take into account that Mr R was in a better position to judge his 
capacity for loss. CSS points to the wide range of investment sizes throughout his 
dealings with CSS indicating he was being selective on the type and size of investments 
he wished to  make.  
 
 One of Mr Rs investment statements he provided from 20 02 showed a net loss to his 
portfolio of 49.4% (£52,294). This evidences a willingness to exceed a 25% capacity for 
loss. If he had told this investment company he had £150,000 in assets (as he had with 
CSS), this would have represented a loss against thes e assets of  35%.  
 
 CSS reiterated that Mr R had continued to invest in two private companies in 2012 and 
2015, both of which are now in liquidation. CSS expects these are just two of many 
investments like  this. 
 
 CSS questions Mr R transparency in providing information to th is Service. There is no 
evidence to support Mr Rs suggestions that he initially must have been under the 
impression that the shares were normal type of shares that I was familiar with in small 
developing companies with some sort of track record . And Mr R allowed this Service to 
draw the conclusion that a client form dated 30 September had been provided to CSS 
which they assume he relied on to suggest that he was only interested in FTSE 100, 
FTSE 250 and 350 and Small Cap Index. CSS also identified a furt her non -listed 
investment Mr R made prior to becoming a CSS client. They provided evidence he 
invested in Biocide International PLC in July and August 2005 which was EIS qualifying. 
CSS say this is further evidence Mr R has attempted to mislead this servic e in relation to 
his experience in non -listed  companies.  Ref: DRN2430271  
5  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Given Mr Rs prior and subsequent investment experience and his lack of transparency 
about this, CSS considers the ombudsman cannot make a fair decision without requiring 
Mr R  to disclose all investments made after his relationship with CSS concluded. 
Without this, the ombudsman is speculating what Mr R would or wouldnt have done, 
when in fact the emerging picture from CSSs research is that he would have continued 
to invest a bove a 25% capacity for  loss. 
 
 Theres no evidence cited or relied upon in the decision that any alternative investments 
Mr R would have made instead of CSSs investments wouldnt have been  high-risk. 
 
 Theres an inconsistency between the ombudsmans findi ngs that the 25% high -risk 
investments limit was against investments through CSS and yet the 25% capacity for 
loss is measured against Mr Rs total  portfolio.  
 
 CSS has no duty to compensate Mr R for investment losses. Mr R took the decision to 
enter into h igh risk intermediate investments in respect of which he suffered loss. CSS 
does not as a matter of law assume responsibility for the decision to enter the 
transaction. CSS is only liable for the consequences of the information he was given 
being wrong or failure to give him the wrong  information.  
 
 To identify the extent of any duty on CSS to compensate Mr R, it is necessary to 
consider whether Mr R would have incurred the losses if he had entered into the high 
risk investments had CSS told him that that high risk investments formed more than 
25% of the investments he had with him. It is self -evident in the present case that he 
would have suffered precisely the same losses. In those circumstances, CSS can be 
under no duty to compensate him for  them.  
 
 The purpose of the COB is to protect the client fro m a failure to understand the risk of 
market movement in value of the type of investment proposed. However, Mr R knew the 
investments he was committing to were high risk and that their value could be  lost. 
 
 The complaint should therefore not be upheld in c ircumstances where the loss suffered 
by Mr R is properly attributable to: (i) the misrepresentations which he made to CSSE in 
order to induce CSSE to categorise him as an intermediate investor and, thereby, to 
obtain access to access to high risk intermedi ate investments; (ii) Mr Rs decision to 
enter into them in the knowledge that they were high risk investments; and/or (iii) the 
market movement in respect of the said  investments.  
 
my findings  
 
Ive re -considered all the available evidence and arguments t o decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
Ive considered Mr Rs response to my provisional decision and note that despite Mr R 
repeating he only wanted 20 -25% of his investments with CSS to be high risk and that he 
wante d his investments to be secure, Im still satisfied that Mr R had sufficient experience 
and knowledge to understand what sort of investment opportunities CSS was recommending 
to him and that these were all high -risk investments into unlisted companies. It follows that 
although the objective, sensible interpretation of the contractual agreement at the outset of 
the relationship between Mr R and CSS was that Mr R wanted only 25% of the investments  Ref: DRN2430271  
6  
  
 
 
 
 
 
arranged through CSS to be high risk, as the relationship unfolded it seems clear that Mr R 
was prepared to invest completely into high risk investments through them.  
 
I dont find it plausible that he considered the investments he was making were safe and  
secure investments. He might not have had direct experience in all of the trading sectors of 
the businesses he was investing in. However, I think he knew a reasonable amount about 
how the stock market worked and about the unexpected difficulties small bus inesses could 
encounter and could therefore understand that these businesses could fail to achieve what 
they intended to. And considering the risk warnings in the diary notes and the placement 
information he was sent by CSS, I think he would have understoo d these were non - 
standard, high risk investments. I remain of the view that notwithstanding what was agreed 
in the client agreement at the outset of the relationship, Mr R understood that the 
investments proposed to him by CSS over time were all high risk . 
 
I now turn to CSSs comments.  
 
Procedural fairness  
 
I would like to clarify that Mr R was not invited to re -submit or reformulate his complaint 
after a previous ombudsmans decision was quashed in January 2019. The consent order 
and correspondence a t the time said his complaint would be remitted for reconsideration by 
a new ombudsman and this is what happened. Mr R did send another summary of his 
complaint but it didnt contain any materially new information. Unfortunately, following the 
quashing of the decision, Mr Rs complaint was waiting to be re -allocated to a new 
ombudsman for some time.  
 
I issued a provisional jurisdiction decision on 24 February 2021 based on the information 
that had been submitted by Mr R and CSS. CSS asked for more time to r eply because they 
wanted to request legal advice and they were given a total of two months to respond.  
Subsequently, a jurisdiction decision was issued on 12 February 2021 which considered 
submissions by both parties. I concluded that this service had juri sdiction to consider Mr Rs 
complaint and that I would start considering its merits. As the merits had been considered 
previously by the first ombudsman (whose decision was quashed), very detailed 
submissions from CSS and Mr R were already on file and CSS had made no indication that 
they had any additional submissions to make. On that basis, I considered the evidence 
available and issued my provisional merits decision. I made it clear the decision on merits 
was provisional, which allowed both parties furthe r opportunity to comment. Both parties 
were given two weeks to reply. CSS asked for an additional three weeks response time.  
They were informed that without specific reasons why several more weeks were required, an 
extension of another one and half weeks w ould be granted. CSS provided no further 
reasoning as to why they needed more time beyond this and provided their response within 
the given deadline.  
 
Overall, Im satisfied both parties were given equal and reasonable time and opportunity to 
make submissi ons and comments at any stage of the process which has been going on over 
several years.  
 
CSS say they will challenge the jurisdiction decision. However, I note that they didnt submit 
any further comments after the jurisdiction decision was issued or in t heir most recent 
submissions about why they disagree with the findings I made.  Ref: DRN2430271  
7  
  
 
 
 
 
 
CSSs comments on the merits of Mr Rs complaint  
 
I dont agree that I imposed unreasonable obligations on CSS. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, I consider CSS gave Mr R investment advice and was not merely 
promoting and arranging the investments he eventually purchased. In turn CSS had to do 
more than just ensure the information they gave Mr R was correct, as they have suggested. 
They had to make sure their investment recommendations were suitable. In order to give a 
suitable investment recommendation, CSS needed to go further than to simply tak e account 
of Mr Rs preferences and understanding regarding risk. CSS also needed to ensure that 
the investments were suitable for Mr R, taking his wider financial position into account. It is 
my view that this obligation has always been a feature of good industry practice in the giving 
of suitable investment advice and was made explicit by the FCA in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS 9.2.2R):  
 
COBS9.2.2R  
 
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of  managing:  
 
(a) meets his inves tment  objectives;  
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and 
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the 
risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio. [My  emphasis.]  
 
CSS was also, of course, required to comply with the FCAs Principles for Businesses and in 
turn was obliged to conduct its investment business with Mr R in a manner that paid due 
regard to his interests and to treat him fairly.  
 
I have taken all of this i nto account when forming my views of the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this case. I maintain that it was unreasonable for CSS to continue to propose 
high risk deals to Mr R after the point at which it became reasonably clear, based on the 
information they  had, that he was no longer financially able to bear those losses.  
In saying that, I have noted the particular manner of dealing between Mr R and CSS. Mr R 
was not simply receiving advice from CSS in connection with a single investment 
proposition. Instead , there was an ongoing advisory relationship between the two, with CSS 
phoning Mr R sometimes multiple times a month over the course of several years in order to 
recommend various investment options. As things transpired, I understand very few of them 
ever resulted in any investment returns for Mr R and he hasnt been able to access his 
capital of over £600,000. In my view, it was unreasonable for CSS to continue to call Mr R 
with further high -risk investment propositions after the point at which he could n o longer 
reasonably absorb any further losses. An investment that exceeds a clients capacity for 
loss shouldnt be recommended, even if the client is willing to take that risk. CSS wasnt 
simply an order taker in these circumstances. They had to take re asonable steps to make 
sure the investments recommended to Mr R were suitable for him and to act in his best 
interests.  Ref: DRN2430271  
8  
  
 
 
 
 
 
CSS says that the threshold figure I have used (25% of his total portfolio) to mark the point 
at which Mr R coul d no longer absorb these investment losses is inconsistent with my 
findings on the 25% term in the client agreement. As explained, I think the sensible, 
objective construction of the client agreement is that the 25% term related only to CSS 
investments. It was simply a statement from Mr R at the outset of the relationship about the 
level of higher risk investments he was willing to purchase with or through CSS.  
 
However, the capacity for risk analysis is entirely distinct from this. In order for CSS to 
assess to what extent Mr R could bear any losses from his CSS investments, they needed to 
know what other financial assets he had that he could fall back on. Having as much 
information about the financial and personal circumstances of a client is essential t o assess 
suitability of an investment, including someones capacity for loss.  
 
I want to be clear that I consider the 25% term in Mr Rs client agreement only related to his 
willingness to take high risk at the outset of the relationship, i.e. his attitude  to risk in relation 
to his CSS investments. That is a subjective decision on his part and it could change, at any 
point  which, as Ive already outlined, is what I think happened as the advisory relationship 
unfolded. The analysis of a persons capacity for loss, on the other hand, is a measurable 
and objective fact, which should be undertaken regardless of what the customer thinks or 
feels about investment risk.  
 
CSS has said that 25% is an arbitrary and erroneous figure. I want to assure CSS that I 
have  given this figure careful thought.  It is true that the regulator is not prescriptive about 
the point at which a persons capacity for loss should be capped. Instead, it is a matter for 
the advising firm to assess on a case by case basis, giving full acco unt to the information the 
firm has obtained from the client about his objectives and his financial and personal 
circumstances. As CSS itself acknowledges, it did not have adequate information about Mr 
Rs financial circumstances. CSS didnt complete a pro per fact find and important 
information about Mr Rs circumstances, such as his income and expenditure, was never 
considered. In those circumstances, CSS says that Mr R was in a better position to judge his 
capacity for loss as he would have known what ass ets and other investments he  had. 
 
However, and as CSS will appreciate, the obligation to assess Mr Rs capacity for loss fell to 
CSS and it was for them to make sure they had obtained adequate information from Mr R in 
order to make that assessment (COB 5.2.5R and COBS 9.2.1R(2)). To the ex tent that they 
considered there were deficiencies in the information they had, it was for them to ask Mr R 
further questions at the time to put things straight.  
 
In the absence of that further information, it is still my view that CSS should nonetheless 
have seen from the information they did have that there was a point at which Mr R could no 
longer afford to absorb the potential significant investment losses he could incur. As I said in 
my provisional decision, CSS recorded on their existing client and sui tability reports the 
value of Mr Rs overall portfolio each time Mr R made an investment. I consider that CSS 
should reasonably have used this to assess his capacity for loss on an ongoing basis. I also 
think CSS acknowledged that this was something they s hould have considered. In an email 
to us in November 2016 CSS  said:  
 
Mr R did inform the firm in 2006 that he had sold his business for some £750,000, which 
reassured us that the quantum of money he was investing in the opportunities we were 
presenting was appropriate to his circumstances. [my emphasis].  Ref: DRN2430271  
9  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
I appreciate CSS thinks I should make enquiries of Mr R to determine what his actual 
portfolio values were during the advisory period. However, I think its difficult now to establi sh 
with sufficient certainty Mr Rs financial position from 15 years ago. So in the circumstances I 
remain satisfied that its fair to take account of the reasonable assumptions CSS should 
have made about Mr Rs capacity for loss based on the information t hey did  have.  
 
I felt 25% of his total portfolio was a reasonable starting point for CSS, particularly as they 
told us in their letter of 29 January 2018 that the 25% limit was guidance from Mr R as to  
 
how much exposure he wanted to take at that time and  therefore, broadly, how many 
investments we should offer to him. [CSSs emphasis]. CSS always kept that broad limit 
in mind when offering new prospects, but it was always [Mr Rs] sole decision whether to 
invest in new companies, even in circumstances whe re we offered him opportunities such 
that he was close to the 25% figure.  
 
the 25% figure was general guidance to CSSP as to which investments CSSP should 
introduce to [Mr R] and that, based on the information we had at the time, the percentage 
held in private companies did not exceed the guidance level of 25% of total portfolio.  
 
Given Mr Rs age and that he had told CSS on his client form he was retired, they should 
have considered that losing any more than a quarter of his investment portfolio would likely 
start to have a material impact on his standard of living and, in particular, his ability to 
enhance his benefits in retirement. As I said in my provis ional decision, the investments  
Mr R was entering into were not just high risk to the point where they could fluctuate, lose 
value or take some time to come to fruition. There was a genuine risk that Mr R could lose all 
of the capital he was investing. Hol ding 25% of a total investment portfolio in such assets is 
already high in my opinion and I would say many investors would not have the capacity to 
even lose this much. However, Mr R hadnt refuted at any point that 20 -25% of his overall 
portfolio was a re asonable assumption for his capacity for loss. So in the circumstances I still 
think it is reasonable to assume that Mr R had a capacity for loss of 25% of the portfolio 
value he declared to CSS. I dont think CSS could reasonably assume without further 
information that his capacity for loss was higher than  this. 
 
In saying this, I note also that CSS current submission that a capacity for loss requirement 
of 25% of Mr Rs general investment portfolio is erroneous and arbitrary appears to 
contradict their e arlier stance on the meaning of the 25% term in the client agreement. In 
opposition to my finding that the 25% term was a reference to the investments made through 
CSS, the firm has consistently said that it was in their view a reference to Mr Rs wider 
investment portfolio , as disclosed in the agreement.  It seems CSS is happy to say that it 
had contractually agreed to keep Mr Rs investments at a level that did not exceed 25% of 
his overall investment portfolio, but at the same time say that same obligati on would be too 
onerous if it were applied as part of the suitability assessment itself. Im afraid I find CSS 
arguments in this regard to be inconsistent and  unhelpful.  
 
CSS says Mr Rs previous investment statements from 2002 with a different investment  
company show losses to his portfolio of 49.4 % and that this showed Mr Rs willingness to 
exceed a 25% capacity for loss. However, as CSS surely is aware, an investment statement 
is a snapshot of how an investment is performing. Unless Mr R realised his i nvestments at 
this point (and theres no evidence he did), he didnt in fact suffer any losses. Its normal for 
an investment portfolio to fluctuate and contrary to the CSS investments, Mr Rs holdings 
with this company were mostly in listed companies and far less likely to lead to complete  Ref: DRN2430271  
10  
  
 
 
 
 
 
losses over the medium to longterm. I dont think this is either conclusive evidence that Mr R 
had a higher capacity for loss nor that he was prepared to exceed his objective capacity for 
loss lim it, no matter what an adviser was telling him.  
 
As outlined above, I also disagree with CSS that they are not required to compensate Mr R 
for his investment losses and that they are only liable for consequences caused by any 
wrong information they gave Mr R. As I say, because CSS gave investment advice to Mr R, 
their obligation here was more than just to give correct information to him. They had to give 
suitable advice.  
 
I acknowledge that Mr R did make a choice to make high risk investments and I agree that 
he understood that their value could be lost. For that reason, I decided his attitude to risk 
had shifted from the stance he had indicated at the outset by way of the 25% term in the 
client agreement. CSS have pointed to another EIS investment (Biocide International Plc) 
Mr R made in 2005 before he became a CSS client and have questioned how transparent 
Mr R has been about the information he provided to this service. Th ey say this is further 
evidence he had previous experience in EIS investments when he said he didnt.  
 
I have taken all of this information into consideration and as already explained in my 
provisional decision, I think Mr R had a higher attitude to risk a nd more experience than his 
submissions to us have intimated. And that is precisely why I dont hold CSS responsible for 
all of Mr Rs losses even though I consider CSS should have told him he was exceeding the 
25% term in his client agreement early on in their relationship. That is because, in my view, 
even if they had done so, it is more likely than not that Mr R would have been prepared to 
exceed his initially chosen limit and agreed to continue with the high -risk CSS investments. I 
say this because in m y opinion he came to understand that all the investments he made 
through CSS were high risk.  
 
However, I think the matter would have been different if CSS had clearly told him at the 
appropriate point that he had reached the limit of his capacity for loss.  As explained in my 
provisional decision, CSS should have explained to Mr R that in their view the amount he 
had invested in high risk investments had reached a loss limit they thought he couldnt 
reasonably afford to exceed given his financial circumstanc es, and that in turn they would 
not be recommending any more high -risk investments to him as it wasnt appropriate. If they 
had explained this, I dont think Mr R would have insisted on continuing to invest in this way.  
 
In saying this, I note that Mr R ha s said throughout his complaint that he was looking for 
professional advice and support when making investments, so I dont think he would have 
simply ignored any clearly communicated concerns of his adviser. From what Ive seen it 
looks like CSS was gener ally initiating contact by way of frequent calls from Mr Rs client 
adviser. It follows that if they had told him they would stop calling him to make 
recommendations, I think its more likely than not he wouldnt have actively pursued high risk 
investments  through them or through any other financial adviser. Consequently he wouldnt 
have ended up with investments through CSS which breached that limit.  
 
I think this is what would likely have happened if CSS had followed their regulatory 
obligations and good industry practice at the time. But it is also, in any event, my view of the 
fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of the case. If CSS had acted in  
Mr Rs best interest by informing him of their concerns about his ability to absorb potential 
losses at this monetary level and stopped recommending high risk investments, I am 
satisfied Mr R wouldnt have made any further investments exceeding his capacity for loss 
limit through CSS.  Ref: DRN2430271  
11  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Its reasonable to assume Mr R would ha ve invested his money elsewhere. I considered 
whether he would have invested his money in the same type of high -risk investments with a 
different firm. However, I dont think its reasonable to assume he would have done this if he 
had just been warned by C SS that the loss from high risk investments was starting to 
damage his wider financial position and that as a result, further investment of this kind wasnt 
in his best interest. And even if he did approach another adviser for advice on high risk 
investmen ts, I think he would have found it difficult to find another firm that was reasonably 
prepared to deal with him exclusively in similar types of high -risk investments at this point 
given his existing exposure to these investments.  
 
This isnt to say Mr R would have invested in particularly low risk investments instead. As 
explained previously, I think he likely had a medium to high attitude to risk overall, so 
alternative investments would likely have included some higher risk invest ments. That is why 
my redress formula directs CSS to use a benchmark that takes this spread of investments 
into account. Mr R says he would have approached an established investment company if 
CSS had stopped calling him with investment recommendations. Th is doesnt sound 
implausible to me, given that he had invested with companies like Barclays and Hargreaves 
Lansdown before.  
 
I have also now asked Mr R to provide information about the investments he actually 
purchased after his dealings with CSS finished.  I can see from that information that he went 
on to invest in in portfolios with Fisher Investments and St James Place from 2010/2011.  
The statements provided, which were more recent, show Mr R being invested mainly in UK 
and global equities with a smaller  amount invested in cash and property which indicates a 
spread of medium to high risk investments. As I have said, it is difficult now to get an 
accurate picture of what happened many years ago when Mr Rs relationship with CSS 
ended. I should stress that the information Mr R has now given me does not, of itself, inform 
my decision making on the causation issue here. I acknowledge that the information gives 
an indication how Mr R invested his money years after his relationship with CSS ended and 
after he ha d sustained considerable loss. It is therefore not determinative of how Mr R might 
have invested if CSS had told him earlier on in the relationship that he was exceeding his 
capacity for loss. In answer to that question, I have had to make certain assumpti ons about 
what Mr R would likely have done. Nonetheless, I note that the information does not 
contradict the assumptions I have made and supports my view that Mr R likely had, more 
generally, a medium to high risk attitude to investment  risk. 
 
I appreciate  that CSS provided evidence of Mr R investing in two private companies in 2012 
and 2015 which have both gone into liquidation since. And Mr R admitted that he has had 
the occasional dabble in smaller companies with some money he was prepared to lose, but  
never with his serious pension investments. Whilst this shows Mr R was still interested in this 
type of high -risk investment a few years later, I dont think its sufficient evidence to show 
that he would have invested all his money in this type of invest ment no matter what CSS had 
told him about his capacity for  loss. 
 
Overall, its impossible to say what exactly Mr R would have invested in 15 years ago if CSS 
had raised concerns about his capacity for loss. And I appreciate using a benchmark can 
never be  perfect. However, I remain satisfied the benchmark used is reasonable in the 
circumstances.  Ref: DRN2430271  
12  
  
 
 
 
 
 
CSS say I didnt include Mr Rs business sale value in the calculations without proper 
justification. I disagree. In my provisional decisio n, I explained that I couldnt see what 
information they were actually given about the business sale by Mr R and at what point. The 
diary notes in January 2006 show that Mr R was in the process of selling his business and it 
looks like this sum was mention ed; but in March 2006 the notes record that he sold his 
business for over £100k and a couple of weeks later its noted the sale fell through. I havent 
seen any other evidence to show what information Mr R had given CSS about the sale of his 
business after  that. 
 
The proceeds of the sale also werent specifically considered in the portfolio size when CSS 
completed their records before each investment. There is no mention of it. CSS says it was 
recorded as an asset for Mr Rs investment on 10 September 2007,  however neither the 
diary notes around this time nor the corresponding existing client and suitability report for 
this investment mentions this.  
 
CSS has not provided any further evidence about this, so I cant see on what basis CSS is 
able to say that Mr R told them the business was sold for £750,000. Any increases in the 
recorded portfolio value which werent down to CSS investments could have in theory also 
been funded from the sale of his business, for example the increase in savings, tradeable 
assets or the higher value of a second property which was recorded by CSS. So I dont think 
CSS could have considered this sum in addition to the portfoli o values when assessing Mr 
Rs exposure to high risk investments, without clearer information from Mr R about the 
business sale. Mr R says he believes he sold his business for around £225k and split this 
with his father. I appreciate its possible Mr R tol d CSS he would receive a higher value at 
some point and if he had done so, I think CSS could have relied on this. However, Ive seen 
no evidence that this is what happened here.  
 
CSS said EIS income tax relief and loss relief should be allowed for in my re dress 
calculations. I think they have a valid point here. I understand that in 2006 Mr R would have 
been entitled to 20% income tax relief on any EIS investment. I have asked Mr R for 
information about this. He said he could only find one EIS registration form for Urban Wimax 
for an investment of £20,000 and he did claim for tax relief on this. He cant recall receiving 
any other forms, but if he did he would have passed them on to his accountant to use with 
his tax  return.  
 
I think its reasonable to assum e Mr R was able to claim back 20% of the investment value 
immediately through income tax relief, so I think its fair to say he was in effect only using 
80% of capital for his EIS investments (Urban Wimax, Safe and Morria). For the purposes of 
calculating the capacity for loss limit I think its reasonable in the circumstances for CSS to 
reduce the original investment amount for his EIS investments by 20%. Ive allowed for this 
in the redress table below . Ref: DRN2430271  
13  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mr R might also have been a ble to claim loss relief on these investments. I have taken 
account of the fact that loss relief would have only been available to him at some point in the 
future and only in certain circumstances. For example he had to keep the shares for a 
certain number  of years, the company had to keep their qualifying status and it would only 
be paid if Mr R disposed of the shares. Before any potential loss relief might have been paid 
to Mr R, he likely could have faced illiquidity issues and be stuck with these shares  in the 
meantime, so I dont think any such relief should fairly be taken off his initial investment for 
these capacity for loss  calculations.  
 
However, if Mr R did dispose of his EIS investments at any point or the relevant company 
went into liquidation a nd Mr R was eligible for loss relief at this point, then CSS can deduct 
these amounts from the fair value together with any other withdrawals, income payments etc.  
 
Ive considered that its possible that Mr R didnt claim income tax or loss relief on his EIS 
investments even though he was entitled to. However, I think on balance its reasonable to 
assume that he would have claimed when he could and in any event, to mitigate losses, I think 
he should have done so. So in turn its fair that CSS can make thes e deductions if applicable.  
 
Having reviewed all information and submissions by the parties again, I still consider it fair 
and reasonable that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld.  
 
fair compensation  
 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr R as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given 
unsuitable advice.  
 
I think any funds he wouldnt have invested through CSS (at the poi nt they breached his 
capacity for loss) would still have been invested but would have been invested differently by 
Mr R. I dont know exactly what he would have invested in instead. However, and in line with 
my assessment of his broader portfolio risk prof ile, I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable taking that into account and given Mr R's circumstances and 
objectives when he invested.  
 
how should the 25% capacity for loss limit be assessed?  
 
I think its reasonable in the circ umstances to consider that CSS should have based their 
assessment whether Mr R had the capacity for loss on the financial information they had recorded 
about Mr Rs investment portfolio. I appreciate CSS says Mr Rs investment portfolio might have 
had a mu ch higher value, for example they referred to a commercial property he held in his self - 
invested personal pension that they werent aware of at the time. And given what Mr R said to this 
service about being modest in his declarations to CSS, this is quite  likely. The argument here 
would be that a higher portfolio value would mean a higher capacity for loss in monetary terms.  
 
But I think CSS could only consider suitability based on the information available to them. If 
they considered the information to be inadequate, it was for them to ask Mr R further 
questions at the time. I do not think it is reasonable now, many years down  the track, to try 
to get a clear picture of Mr Rs financial circumstances at the time. The analysis should be 
based on the full extent of the information CSS had obtained from Mr R at the time. There is 
of course a possibility that that information under estimated Mr Rs wider financial  position.  
But equally, if Mr R had overstated his assets at the time, I would expect CSS to be able to  Ref: DRN2430271  
14  
  
 
 
 
 
 
rely on the information Mr R had provided.  
 
The value of Mr Rs investments that was known to CSS changed over time. In January 
2006 Mr R said he had £100k in tradeable investments and £50k in liquid savings. Over time 
the value increased. Whenever an investment was made CSS recorded Mr Rs portfoli o size 
and the information they held was regularly verified with Mr R. Ive seen financial information 
reports which were sent to him and which he amended where he saw necessary, so I think 
its reasonable to rely on these  values.  
 
On 9 July 2009, when mak ing his last investment through CSS, his portfolio size was 
recorded as £1.735,710.85 which was broken down as:  
 
Tradeable investments: £135,750 
Liquid savings: £70,000  
Peps ISAs: £150,000  
Private/unquoted companies: £639,960 
2nd property: £740,000  
 
These values included all of the CSS investments including the one he was about to make. 
As explained above no additional sum for Mr Rs business sale should be added here.  
 
I think it would have been clear to Mr R that CSS werent providing advice on his overal l 
financial situation and could only consider information they had. He was advised by CSS to 
provide as much information about his financial situation as possible and I think in these 
circumstances its reasonable for CSS to only consider the information t hey were provided 
by Mr R and apply his capacity for loss limits to these values.  
 
Before recommending an investment, I think CSS should have referred to the current portfolio 
size on their existing client and suitability report (amount set out under Tota l) and worked out 
whether this next investment would take Mr Rs CSS portfolio above his 25% capacity for loss.  
 
Using these numbers on the CSS reports and the investments Mr R made, with allowances for EIS 
income tax relief, (see table below), I consider  that the last suitable investment recommended to 
Mr R was the Miras investment on 20 September 2006 for £11,250. Every investment after this  
date exceeded Mr Rs 25% capacity for loss limit, so was an unsuitable investment that shouldnt  
have been  recomme nded . It follows the unsuitable investment amount is  £403,902.66.  Ref: DRN2430271  
15  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
what should CSS do?  
 
To compensate Mr R fairly, CSS must:  
 
1) compare the performance of Mr R's unsuitable investments with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investments. If the combined actual value is greater than the 
combined fair value, no compensation is payable. CSS should also pay interest as 
set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest  awarded.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
investment 
name  benchmark  from (start 
date)  to (end 
date)  additional interest  
Unsuitable 
investments 
in CSS 
portfolio (as 
identified 
above)   
FTSE UK  
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index   
date when 
each 
unsuitable 
investment 
was made   
 
date of my 
final decision  8% simple per year from 
date of decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is not paid 
within 28 days of the 
business being notified of 
acceptance)  
 
Actual value  
 
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.  
 
If at the end date an investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr R agrees to CSS taking ownership 
of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for CSS to take ownership, then it may 
request an undertaking from Mr R that he  repays to CSS any amount he may receive from 
the investment in future.  
 
Fair value  
 
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.  
 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investm ent (including any EIS loss 
relief) should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point  on. 
 
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
CSS totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.  Ref: DRN2430271  
16  
  
 
 
 
 
 
why is this remedy suitable?  
 
I have  chosen this method of compensation because:  
 
 Mr R wanted capital growth from the investments he purchased through CSS and was 
willing to accept high investment risk in connection with those  investments.  
 
 However, CSS should not have recommended investment s that exceeded Mr Rs threshold 
for capacity for loss of 25% of his wider financial portfolio that was known to  CSS.  
 
 If CSS had explained that threshold for loss to Mr R and stopped recommending high 
risk investments, Mr R would likely not have invested the level of money he did in high 
risk investments of the same type through CSS or  elsewhere.  
 
 He would still have invested the money that exceeded his 25% threshold for loss and 
any alternative investments would likely still have a reasonable amount of  risk. 
 
 The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE W MA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would 
be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
 
 Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr R's 
circumstances and risk  attitude.  
 
I appreciate CSS think this benchmark doesnt reflect sufficiently that Mr R was likely to 
continue in high risk investments be it through CSS or elsewhere. However, and as Ive 
outlined above, Im satisfied that on balance and following the explanation of his capacity for 
loss, Mr R would not have in vested all sums he didnt invest through CSS into the same 
category of high -risk investments elsewhere. So I think on balance the index used is 
reasonable in these circumstances.  
 
my final decision  
 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requ iring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that CSS pays the 
balance.  
 
Determination and award: I upho ld the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that CSS should pay the amount 
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 plus any interest set out above.  
 
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds  
£150,000, I recommend that CSS pays Mr R the balance plus any interest on the balance as 
set out above.  
 
If CSS does not pay the full fair compensation (including the recommendation if fair 
compensation exceeds £150,000), then any investment currently illiquid should be retained 
by Mr R. This is until any future benefit that he may receive from the investment  together 
with the compensation paid by CSS (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair  Ref: DRN2430271  
17  
  
 
 
 
 
 
compensation as set out above.  
 
CSS may request an undertaking from Mr R that either he repays to CSS any amount Mr R may 
receive from the  investment thereafter or if possible, transfers the investment at that point.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 20212.  
 
 
Nina Walter  
ombudsman  Ref: DRN2430271  
18  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
copy of my provisional decision  
 
summary of complaint  
 
Mr R complains about investments he made through CSS Partners LLP (CSSP), an 
appointed representative of Charles Street Securities Europe LLP (CSSE).  
 
Until 2008 CSSP was an appointed representative of CSS Inc, however CSSE Europe have 
taken responsibi lity for CSS Incs and CSSPs actions. As Mr Rs complaint relates to a 
single financial service, I am satisfied that, in line with s234B FSMA, CSS Europe is the 
correct respondent firm in this case.  
 
If I dont consider further specification is required I ll collectively refer to all CSS entities as 
CSS for ease of reading.  
 
Mr R invested over £640,000 in shares of unlisted companies between 2006 and 2009. He 
says the recommendations CSS made were not in line with his stated objectives and were 
unsuitabl e for him.  
 
background  
 
Mr R became a client of CSS in 2006. He says he was led to believe CSS were handling 
shares in companies that were well known to them, had been thoroughly investigated and 
which they felt were sound companies that would soon be read y to be listed on the stock 
market. He was made to think the result would be a substantial increase in these companies 
share values which would be a good investment and would lead to capital growth which was 
Mr Rs investment objective.  
 
Mr R says he agreed for CSS to advise him on high risk investments for only 20% of his 
portfolio. He says this was later changed to 25% on a form but he didnt know why. He says he 
was given misleading advice on unsuitable shares which has led to at least 80% of his losses.  
 
CSS describes its role as providing equity and debt finance for early stage growth 
companies. It invests as principal and raises money through private placements via its 
appointed representative CSSP.  
 
Potential investors are contacted by CSSP and are asked to complete a reply card 
authorising CSSP to contact them to discuss their services. Interested investors would then 
complete a Private Client Agreement Form (CAF) which would allow CSSP to contact the 
investor at any time to disc uss possible investment opportunities.  
 
CSS says when companies approach them to raise finance they conduct due diligence 
checks and produce a memo with information about the company. CSSP would then contact 
the client and describe the investment opportuni ty. CSSP says no recommendations were 
given. They simply provided information about the companies Mr R could invest in and was 
for him to decide for himself whether the investment was right for him.  
 
Mr R first signed a client agreement as a private client  in January 2006. He then signed an 
agreement to be treated as an intermediate client a few months later in May 2006.  Ref: DRN2430271  
19  
  
 
 
 
 
 
CSS raised several objections to our service considering Mr Rs complaint including it was 
brought outside the reg ulators time limits and that Mr R was an intermediate customer which 
meant this service didnt have jurisdiction to consider his complaint.  
 
I previously issued a jurisdiction decision in which I found the complaint had been made in 
time and that CSS didn t take reasonable care when they categorised him as an 
intermediate customer which meant he should have been treated as a private client. So I 
decided I could consider the merits of Mr Rs complaint which Ill do in this decision.  
 
my provisional findings  
 
was Mr R given advice?  
 
CSS says they only provided information to Mr R and it was up to him to decide if he wanted 
to proceed and if it was right for him and his circumstances. Mr R says he was given 
recommendations and advice. So  I have first considered whether CSS gave advice to Mr R.  
 
During the time of Mr Rs relationship with CSS, investment advice was defined in art 53 of 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001/544 (the 
RAO) as:  
 
53. Ad vising on investments  
Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is  
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his 
capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor;  and 
(b) advice on the merit s of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or  agent)  
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a 
security or a [relevant investment] ,  or 
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, s ell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an  investment.  
 
At the time, the perimeter guidance (PERG) in the FSA Handbook said the following about 
the meaning of advising on investments:  
 
Giving a person  generic advice about specified investments  (for example, inv est in Japan 
rather than Europe) is not a regulated activity  nor is giving information as opposed to 
advice (for example, listings or company news). However, the  context in which 
something is communicated may affect its character; for example, if a person  gives 
information on share price against the background that, when  he does so, that will be a 
good time to sell, then this will constitute advising on investments . 
 
When asking whether CSS gave investment advice to Mr R, I start ed by looking at CSSs 
private client agreement. It says:  
 
2. Definitions  
 
Client Adviser  your client adviser at CSS Partners LLP  Ref: DRN2430271  
20  
  
 
 
 
 
 
4. Services to be provided under this  agreement  
We shall provide advisory and deal arranging services in the following: - 
Shares in public or private companies;  
Debentures in convertible loan stock;  
 
 
5. Investment objectives  
In order to be able to provide you with investment advice , it is essential that we understand 
your investment objectives and your personal financial circumstances. It is important, therefore, 
that you provide us with as much information as possible in Annex 5 to this Agreement  
 
9. Material interest/conflict of i nterest  
We may give you investment advice or enter into transactions for you where we or an 
Associated Company or some other connected person may have an interest  
 
By way of example we might be: i) acting as financial adviser , underwriter, placement 
agent  or lending banker to the company whose securities you may be buying  
 
Annex 1:  
We may recommend transactions to you [my emphasis]  
 
Mr R completed Annex 5 in January 2006 with some information about his financial 
experience and assets. He also provided inf ormation about his investment objectives being 
to primarily maximise capital growth and that he was prepared to accept a high level of risk 
in respect of 20% of his investments.  
 
In section 7 on Restrictions it said: I do not wish to receive advice relat ing to or trade in any of 
the following types of investments (for example options, warrants, or unregulated collective 
investment schemes). In this section, Mr R stated that he didnt want to receive advice relating 
to options or warrants (which I think im plies he would receive advice on other products).  
 
As we know, Mr R soon after signed a further client agreement for intermediate customers. 
That agreement was in largely the same terms as the previous private client agreement.  
Sections 2, 4, 5 and 9, outl ined above, were in the same terms and included the same 
references to advice and recommendations. A different section for intermediate customers 
was included in annex 2 under the heading Categorisation Notice  Intermediate Customers. 
I note that in t his annex there was a reference in section 1(b) of the annex under Customers 
Understanding of Risk, which said:  
 
We will not be obligated to warn you of the nature of any risks involved in any of the 
transactions we recommend to or execute for you.  
 
However, I note that the annex also contained, in section 2, an Investment Objectives clause 
that said:  
 
2. Investment objectives  
It is your sole responsibility to ensure that transactions effected with or through us are in 
accordance with your investment objectives and comply in all respects with any legal or 
regulatory restrictions upon entering into such transactions. We will not advise you in 
relation to such transactions nor will we owe you fiduciary or similar obligations in relation to 
such transactions . [my emphasis]  Ref: DRN2430271  
21  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
In turn, and as CSS has said, this in isolation suggests that as a result o f Mr Rs 
classification as an intermediate client, CSS wasnt intending to give advice.  
 
I have given careful consideration to all of the terms in the client agreements in order to 
determine whether Mr R and CSS agreed that an advisory service would be pro vided. 
Although CSS says they didnt provide advice to any of their clients (private or intermediate), 
I think the Private Client Agreement clearly contemplated that investment advice services 
would be provided. And given that Mr R was asked about his inve stment objective and 
attitude to risk, I think he would have reasonably expected to receive investment advice from 
CSS when he started his relationship with them.  
 
Against this, I do acknowledge the clear wording in the Investment Objectives clause in Anne x 2 
of the second client agreement that indicated advice would not be given in relation to 
transactions effected with or through CSS. This was, as I have already decided, included in the 
agreement as a result of the non -compliant assessment of Mr R as an i ntermediate customer.  
 
I also note that the nature of Mr Rs dealings with his Client Adviser at CSS did not appear to 
change at all as a result of the signing of the intermediate client agreement in May 2006.  
 
In turn, and looking at the agreement as a whole, I dont think it is reasonable to view the 
Investment Objectives clause in the second agreement as determinative of whether the 
parties contemplated that advice would be given. That clause was contained wit hin a client 
agreement that otherwise contained multiple references to the giving of advice, including a 
reference to investment recommendations in the intermediate customer section itself (Annex 
2, Customers Understanding of Risk).  
 
Having considered the agreement between Mr R and CSS as a whole, it seems that, on balance, 
the parties contemplated that investment recommendations and advice would be given.  
 
I turn now to a consideration of the nature of the actual dealings between the parties in order 
to de cide whether investment advice was in fact given to Mr R by CSS.  
 
I note that communications with Mr Rs Client Adviser at CSS largely took place in telephone 
calls. Ideally I would have liked to listen to the calls Mr R had with CSS as that would give a 
clearer indication of what exactly was discussed and how information about the investments 
was presented, however these arent available. CSS provided short handwritten diary notes 
which were recorded by CSS during their calls. Some of these arent legible.  I have carefully 
read the ones which are and I can see that the bulk of the notes contain information on 
particular companies which Mr R was recommended to invest in.  
 
I appreciate that recommending a company could be simply a financial promotion, i.e. an 
invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity as defined in the FCA Handbook at 
the time Mr R invested. I also considered that CSS used the word advised regularly in the 
notes, but in my opinion this was used as a synonym for informed of o r explained, for 
example advised client of product and advised of high risk.  
 
The question is whether CSS did more than this, i.e. that they didnt just objectively present 
information about investment opportunities; but in fact provided Mr R with a pers onal 
recommendation and advised him on the merits to invest in these companies.  Ref: DRN2430271  
22  
  
 
 
 
 
 
I can see that on many of the diary cards, there is evidence that recommendations were 
made. CSS phoned Mr R and recommended specific companies to him. Some comments 
indicating opinions or judgements on the merits of the companies were made. In particular I 
note the following:  
 
18 Apr 2006: advised market was growing  
12 Dec 2006:  advised that deal was centred around land in Romania, which is to be 
developed for retail purposes. Advised that value of land expected to increase as planning 
permission is granted and land price may increase due to Romanian accession to European 
Union   
30 Jan 2007 compatibility is promising, hoping to list on AIM after raising  
18 Apr 2007 gave details on OTX Bridge, discussed companys product, target market and 
potential benefits, strong management team  
15 Aug 2007: advised Romanian deal will not proceed+ advised switching money into 
Croatian residential property deal. [Mr R] is happy to do this.  
 
This is not to say Mr R wasnt told anything about the risks. I appreciate that nearly all notes 
including the ones abov e refer to the investments being high risk and that not all notes only 
include positive information. But giving risk warnings and giving investment advice arent 
mutually exclusive. On the contrary, risk warnings should form part of any investment advice 
given, particularly with high risk investments.  
 
In making my assessment I have also had regard to the handwritten contemporaneous notes 
taken by Mr R at the time he received the calls from his client adviser. I note that in a 
number of those notes, there i s evidence of comments and opinions given on the merits of 
investing in the companies in question. For instance, I note the  following:  
 
In connection with a phone call on 25 March 2006, Mr R writes:  
 
very good  
co [company] could be sold soon  
 
In connec tion with a conversation in September 2006, Mr R writes:  
 
Very confident should be good  
Suggest 30,000 -£27,000 
time scale 18 months -£10k  
 
In connection with a phone call on 1 November 2006, Mr R writes:  
 
Safe Europe -Looking to list next year, 
Log net - to double next year  
Wimax mentioned in FT  
 
In connection with a phone call on 1 August 2007, Mr R writes:  
 
2 years exit  potential for 7.5mi llion after funding 
In a phone call on 20 September 2007 Mr R writes: 
listing in 12 months  10 -15 x investment  Ref: DRN2430271  
23  
  
 
 
 
 
 
And in connection with another investment in the same call he writes:  
 
list within 1 year 10 x net profit and net return 246%  
 
In a phone call on 27 November 2007 about a bridge loan, Mr R writes:  
 
12 months out of this  8 to 16 times money  
 
In an undated call note Mr R writes:  
 
Will sell for 75[p] to £1  
Re-list on AIM in 6 months  
 
I have also considered the following wording, referred to by CSS, which is included on the 
application forms for investments. CSS says it shows that Mr R was making his decisions 
based on the written documents that were sent to him and not on their recomme ndation.  
 
"We confirm that I am/we are applying on my/our behalf, that I/we have read, 
accepted and understood the terms and conditions set out in the document, that 
I/we have taken appropriate professional advice before submitting this application 
form an d that I am/we are aware of the risks involved in investing in []  
I/we further confirm that I am/we are applying on the basis only of the information contained 
in the Placing documents which supersedes all other information (whether written or oral) 
conce rning the company and [the investment]."  
 
However, I think it was reasonable for Mr R to regard his conversations with CSS as having 
taken appropriate professional advice and having been informed of the risks. Im not saying 
that he wouldnt have read the brochures at all before applying for the investment. However, 
the diary notes show that CSS regularly recommended a company and sent out information 
material and placement documents to Mr R and then called back a few days later to discuss 
the investments a gain presumably after Mr R had received the written documentation.  
Several notes show Mr R made his decision about how much to invest during these second 
calls with CSS.  
 
So I think its unlikely he would have only relied on the information included in the  brochures 
but would have been influenced by what CSS was telling him in their calls before they sent 
him the paperwork and after he received it. In summary, I dont think the wording in the 
application forms is evidence that Mr R was not relying on advice  from CSS when he applied 
for the shares in question.  
 
Ive also taken into account correspondence which Mr R sent to CSS indicating he was 
unhappy with his investments. In my view, there is a consistent reference in the 
correspondence to advice and rec ommendations from CSS. Mr R has consistently 
expressed his concern regarding overly optimistic judgements and opinions expressed by 
CSS in connection with the proposed deals they were putting to him.  
 
In August 2010 Mr R sent two letters to CSS saying:  
 
I am very concerned about the current and future safety of the considerable amount of 
money I have invested in various companies strongly promoted and recommended by 
your company  Ref: DRN2430271  
24  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Quite simply, I do not feel your company is delive ring what I believed I would be getting 
when I followed your 'brokers' advice.  
 
the various share issues and the repeated additional funding requirements of some of the 
companies I have invested in makes me think they are not as healthy and sound as 
[member of staff at CSS] has been leading me to think they are . 
 
I am fast losing confidence in your companys abilities to safely invest my money; and in its 
ability to give accurate and honest advice relating to the companies which you supposedly 
work clos ely with.  
 
A few weeks later he wrote an email saying:  
 
I am now being forced to think I may have been seriously misled by the advice you have 
given to me regarding the quality and prospects of the companies you have been 
recommending me to invest in . 
 
In his complaint letter to CSS in July 2011 he said:  
 
Can you clarify the position with regard to the investment advice I have been receiving 
from your brokers since January 2006.   
 
These communications show that Mr R consistently indicated he had received advice from 
CSS. And I note that in their responses, CSS at no point refuted that advice was given.  
 
All in all, it is my view that on balance CSS gave investment advice to Mr R in the phone 
calls made to him by his client adviser. I dont agree with CSS that the client adviser merely 
gave information about the companies involved. To my mind, there is evidence in the phone 
notes taken by both CSS and Mr R that suggest comments were m ade which contained 
value judgements about the merits of purchasing the shares in question. Speculative 
information about the likely time frame for listing by the companies, and the potential returns 
to be made, was in my view given in order to influence M r Rs decision making about 
whether to purchase the investments in question and in turn went beyond the mere provision 
of information.  
 
Further, Im aware that the phone calls were made to Mr R following a due diligence process 
of sorts by CSS. CSS complet ed Existing client and Suitability Reports for each investment in 
which they noted information about how much Mr R was about to invest in a particular 
company and information about Mr Rs portfolio size with a breakdown of assets. The forms 
included a tick  box labelled Suitable: Yes and which had a section where CSS had to sign 
that suitability was agreed. CSS said this was to establish whether Mr R continued to be 
suitable as an intermediate client. However, I note that these forms were completed for eve ry 
investment, even when Mr R was still categorised as a private client. The forms indicate that 
CSS considered Mr Rs circumstances and financial details before making any 
recommendation. This in my view gave a context to the calls which suggested the com panies 
had been selected for Mr R  again, giving the calls the force of a recommendation.  
 
The recommendations might not have always been explicit, but the context in which they 
were made, as set out above in PERG, is also important in considering whether  advice was 
given. Having weighed up the evidence, I consider that on balance, Mr R made the 
investments which are the subject of his complaint as a result of the investment advice he 
received from CSS.  Ref: DRN2430271  
25  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
was the advice suitable?  
 
CSS had to ensure any advice they gave was suitable for Mr R taking into account his 
financial and personal circumstances including his investment objectives, his attitude to risk 
and his capacity for loss. They also had to act in his best interest.  
 
Mr R was a self -employed businessman who had sold a family business before and was in the 
process of selling another one. CSS diary notes in January 2006 record that he wanted to spend 
more time in markets and that he had lots of previous experience in EIS . On his client information 
form to CSS he did note he had several years experience trading in FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 as 
well as in AIM and OFEX. Although Mr R now says he didnt have this experience and would 
never have said so, I have no reason to doubt that the diary note reflects what was said. Mr R 
says he didnt even know what AIM and OFEX were, but I think on balance he wouldnt have 
stated he had this experience in these markets without knowing at least what these terms meant.  
 
He told us he had pre viously received recommendations from a stockbroker and that in the 
past he had also followed the tips and advice from some of the national newspapers and 
bought a few shares of the larger well -known companies. Hes also since provided 
investment statement s that show he had invested in some high fluctuating shares previously, 
a small proportion of which seem to have been AIM and pre -IPO. He was interested in 
investing into small developing companies and his investment objective was capital growth.  
 
Based on  the information Ive seen I dont think Mr R likely was an expert in pre -IPO shares 
or other non -readily realisable investments and that he was comfortable to invest large sums 
without professional advice and support. However, I think he likely had a reas onable 
understanding of the stock markets and how shares worked. Equally, I think he would have 
understood that the companies he was investing in were in their early stages and not listed 
yet. And given his business background I think he also would have un derstood the many, 
sometimes unforeseen, difficulties a small business could encounter which would prevent its 
success and increase their risk.  
 
The diary notes mention throughout that the investments are high risk and warn of illiquidity. 
And the brochure s sent out to Mr R showed that the companies werent listed yet and reiterated 
the high -risk nature of these investments prominently early on in the brochures. They said:  
 
investment in the Ordinary Shares involves a high degree of risk. Any subscriber 
for the Ordinary Shares must have no need for any liquidity with respect to this 
investment and must be able to withstand a total loss of his investment. Each 
potential investor must carefully consider the risks described below and the other 
information set out in this document before deciding to invest in the Ordinary Shares.  
 
I think Mr R would have had a reasonable understanding of how these investments would 
work and that they were high risk.  
 
Ive also considered the limited investment statements Ive se en from the time before Mr R 
became a client which show funds and shares which were subject to large fluctuations and 
which indicate he was investing in some higher risk assets. CSS also pointed out that 
another stockbroker Mr R dealt with around the same time (in 2005/2006) specialised in 
higher risk investments and Mr R acknowledged that he lost money through them and a 
compensation claim was upheld. I think this indicates that he was investing into higher risk 
investments with other companies too.  Ref: DRN2430271  
26  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
For clarity, I dont think this means Mr R wanted to take high risk with all of his broader 
investment portfolio. He also had property investments and liquid savings and I think its 
likely some of his previous investments into FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 shares  carried lower 
risk too. So I think in terms of his broader portfolio risk profile, he was likely to be a medium 
to high risk investor.  
 
But based on what Ive seen in terms of the investments he transacted through CSS, Mr R 
seems to have been happy to inv est his money in smaller unlisted companies which he 
knew would be, broadly speaking, high risk with the potential for high returns.  
 
Given the substantial assets he had Im also satisfied Mr R had the capacity to take high risk 
with some of his investment s. 
 
The investments he made through CSS, be it shares, bridging investments or loan notes 
were designed to grow his capital, so met his investment objectives. I consider all of them to 
be high risk which is supported by the placement documentation for ever y investment which 
refers to their high -risk nature. But given Mr Rs circumstances and knowledge of how 
shares and small businesses worked and his attitude and capacity for loss I think the sort of 
investments recommended to Mr R were generally suitable f or him.  
 
The fact they didnt perform as well as he had hoped they would or as CSS might have 
reckoned themselves, doesnt necessarily mean they werent suitable. The risk with unlisted 
and early stage companies is that they might fail. On the flipside the y can attract high 
rewards if they are successful. And I think Mr R knew that. In his complaint letter to CSS  
Mr R acknowledged Whilst I accept some companies will prosper and some will fail , 
your company's record appears to me... to be abysmal. [my empha sis]. 
 
I havent seen clear evidence that CSS was giving Mr R misleading information with regards 
to the companies he was investing in. As explained above, the diary notes suggest risk 
warnings were given and the paperwork reiterated these clearly. Example s of diary notes 
which mentioned more specific risks are:  
 
22 Mar 2006: Signal - explained potential market and risks -trials not completed, science not 
totally proven  
 
8 December 2006: Greencote -  advised that whilst company looks strong, risk factors 
included slow processing of orders and difficulty in entering a highly competitive market (no 
platform in US)  
 
12 December 2006 - Romanian property deal - advised of high risk nature of deal (planning 
permission not granted, no guarantee of rising land value.  
 
All investments were described as high risk and illiquid. In his own notes Mr R kept from the 
calls he noted down CSS said Co [company] could be sold soon, very good, very 
confident -should b e good, Lognet -to double next year, re -list on AIM in 6 months, target 
investment time -18 months, listing in 12 months, 150 million annual sales envisaged.  Ref: DRN2430271  
27  
  
 
 
 
 
 
I dont doubt that CSS told him these were promising investment op portunities and that the 
information was given in an encouraging tone that was designed to influence his decision 
making. And I can see that timeframes and possible returns were discussed which largely 
turned out to be too optimistic in hindsight.  But I c ant see Mr R was given any assurances 
or guarantees that these companies would be listed or would be successful. And based on 
the information available I think Mr R was also reasonably informed of the significant risks. 
As with most investments a particul ar outcome isnt guaranteed and it would be 
unreasonable to expect that any company could foresee specific outcomes. This isnt 
possible even for listed shares of large established companies and unlisted companies face 
far higher risks and uncertainties. N o adviser could provide guarantees and being a business 
owner himself, I find it difficult to believe that Mr R might have thought this was the case. I 
also havent seen any evidence that CSS was providing Mr R with information that they 
knew or should hav e known was  incorrect.  
 
It follows that in my view, CSS likely did not give Mr R misleading information about the 
investments they recommended to him. Further, I consider that Mr R understood how those 
investments worked and that they were high risk. For t he reasons given above I think the 
investments were broadly suitable for Mr R.  
 
The key question is whether these investments should have continued to be recommended 
to him to the extent they were and whether at any point further investments became 
unsuita ble when they exceeded Mr Rs attitude to risk or capacity for loss or werent 
appropriate for his circumstances any longer.  
 
The 25% limit on high risk investments  
 
I think a reasonable starting point is Mr Rs client agreement in which, at annex 5, secti on 6, 
headed Investment Objectives, a term provided:  
 
I am prepared to accept a high level of risk [] in respect of [] of my investments in terms 
of the acquisition costs of such investments.  
 
Mr R ticked the box after high level of risk and stated he was prepared to take a higher risk 
on 20% of his investments. He later changed this to 25% when he signed the new 
agreement for intermediate customers. I appreciate Mr R says he doesnt know why it 
changed from 20% to 25%, but I think on balance its likely that he simply decided to take a 
bit more risk a few months after he started investing through CSS.  
 
In any event, I think CSS could reasonably rely on what Mr R was telling them about his 
preparedness to take high risk.  
 
The agreement between CSS and Mr R indicated he was prepared to accept a high level of 
risk in respect of 25% of his investments in terms of the acquisition costs of such 
investments (I will call this the 25% term). The quest ion is: What, objectively speaking, did 
Mr R and CSS intend that term to mean?  
 
I note that there has been much said by the parties and their representatives about the 
meaning of that term.  Ref: DRN2430271  
28  
  
 
 
 
 
 
CSS, in their letter of 29 January 2018 to  this service, told us the 25% limit was guidance 
from Mr R as to  
 
how much exposure he wanted to take at that time and therefore, broadly, how many 
investments we should offer to him. [CSSs emphasis]. CSS always kept that broad limit 
in mind when offeri ng new prospects, but it was always [Mr Rs] sole decision whether to 
invest in new companies, even in circumstances where we offered him opportunities such 
that he was close to the 25% figure.  
 
the 25% figure was general guidance to CSSP as to which investments CSSP should 
introduce to [Mr R] and that, based on the information we had at the time, the percentage 
held in private companies did not exceed the guidance level of 25% of total portfolio . 
 
They enclosed a spreadsheet in which they calculated the 25% limit in reference to Mr Rs 
overall investment assets and not just the investments he made through CSS. So in CSSs 
view the 25% limit is in reference to Mr Rs overall investment assets.  
 
We spoke to Mr R in April 2016. The call note says:  
 
[Mr R] said he did not know all the investments being recommended to him were high risk. 
He agreed to 20% high risk and thought the other 80% were low risk.  
 
He didn't tell [CSS] about changing his ATR as he thought the recommendations they were 
making were for companies that were not high risk and would do well. He believed they were 
compiling a portfolio for him.  
 
In his response to my provisional jurisdiction decision Mr R said:  
 
key and fundamental  point here is my declared wish to limit any involvement in high -risk 
shares. Initially I specified that only 20% of my investment could be invested high -risk 
shares, when they later discussed this with me I think they mustve persuaded me to 
increase this  profile and I believe I reluctantly made the smallest change I could, to comply 
with their wishes and increased this to 25%. At no stage did I believe they could legally 
exceed my request.  
 
So Mr Rs view is that he thought only a quarter of his investments arranged through or with 
CSS should have been high risk.  
 
Whilst I have taken the parties views into account, the construction to place on the 25% 
term in the agreement is, ultimately, an  objective exercise, taking into account the 
agreement as a whole and applying business common sense and reasonableness.  
 
In my view, the sensible, objective construction of the term is that it indicates Mr R was 
prepared to accept a high level of risk in respect of 25% of the investments he made with or 
through CSS . I do not agree with CSS that the reference to investments  in the term was a 
reference to Mr Rs wider investment portfolio or assets. On my reading of the agreement, 
the word investments was used throughout the agreement as a reference to the 
investments offered by CSS.  Ref: DRN2430271  
29  
  
 
 
 
 
 
I point, for ins tance, to the following:  
 
Clause 6: Restrictions there are no restrictions on the types of investments or 
markets in relation to which we may provide our services to you.  
 
Clause 8: Unsolicited real time financial promotionswe shall telephone or vi sit you 
to discuss investments  
 
Clause 9: Charges and Commissions if the investment is being offered without a 
prospectus, our charges will be specifically disclosed  
 
Annex 4 Clause C: Promotional Material I do not attach any restrictions on the 
type of investment upon which I wish to be informed  
 
The 25% term itself appears in Annex 5 of the Client Agreement which is headed Client 
Information Form. Annex 5 consists of seven sections, asking Mr R for information about his 
personal details, emplo yment, investment experience, assets, liabilities, investment objectives 
and restrictions. As I say, the 25% term is in section six, headed Investment Objectives. In 
part (i) of section six, Mr R confirms that his investment objectives are a balanced re turn from 
income and from capital growth primarily to maximise capital growth . To my mind, and in light 
of the sparse details asked of Mr R in annex 5, those objectives as stated in part (i) can only 
sensibly be referring to the nature of the investments Mr R wished CSS to offer him.  
 
Immediately following that clause, in part (ii) of section six, the agreement says:  
 
I am prepared to accept a high level of risk in respect of 25% of my investments in 
terms of the acquisition costs of such investments.  
 
From this, I can see there is a common thread in the agreement by which the word 
investment has come to refer to th e investments offered to Mr R by CSS. This is in my view 
a sensible and natural reading of the agreement. In particular, parts (i) and (ii) of section six 
should be read consistently to give meaning to Mr Rs stated investment objectives. On my 
reading, Mr  Rs investment objectives are that he would like CSS to offer him investments 
that maximise capital growth, but that only 25% of those investments should be high risk.  
 
That construction is, I believe, further confirmed in section 7 of Annex 5, (immediate ly after 
the 25% term), under the heading Restrictions, where the agreement says:  
 
I do not wish to receive advice relating to or to trade in any of the following types of  
investments (for example options warrants or unregulated investment schemes).  
 
In this section Mr R writes, options warrants, etc. Again, the natural meaning of the word 
investments is the investments offered by CSS.  
 
Against this construction, I have given careful thought to clause 16 of the agreement (Risk 
Factors). This clause does speak directly to the notion that high -risk investments should be 
confined to a portion, only, of your portfolio, and I acknowledge that in turn speaks to the 
construction of the 25% term favoured by CSS. Clause 16 says:  
 
Investing in private equity  and associated investments involves a high degree of risk. 
Investments should only be considered for that portion of your portfolio which is 
reserved for more speculative investments. In general each investment which is offered 
through a Prospectus will o utline the risks of that investment in the Prospectus.  Ref: DRN2430271  
30  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
But on my reading, even clause 16 appears to make a clear distinction between the 
investments offered by CSS and the wider portfolio of the client - and it is clear that 
investments is a reference to CSS private equity investments.  
 
Further, I can s ee that section 5 of annex 4 of the agreement did ask Mr R to detail his wider 
financial circumstances, and that might suggest there was an emphasis in the agreement on 
the mix between Mr Rs wider portfolio and the CSS investments he was offered. But, aga in, 
I note that the details in section 4 of annex 5 were referred to under the heading, Assets 
and not Investments.  
 
In my view, if CSS intended the 25% term to refer to the Assets listed by Mr R in section 4, 
or the wider notion of his general port folio in clause 16, I would expect to see those terms 
used in the 25% term, and not the word investments. Indeed, I would expect to see a good 
deal more particularity about what investments the 25% threshold was intended to apply to, 
if the intention was that it should not apply to the investments offered to Mr R by CSS.  
 
I have also given cautious thought to the following wording in the 25% term:  
 
in terms of the acquisition costs of such investments.  
 
It is clear from this that it is the acquisit ion costs of the investments that are to be used 
when calculating the 25%. But to my mind, it does not make commercial sense to then say 
the term investments refers to the clients wider portfolio or assets. Surely, even on CSS 
construction of the me aning of the 25% term, the acquisition costs of the other assets in Mr 
Rs wider portfolio are irrelevant. Why would CSS need to know those costs? What would 
matter, on CSS construction, is what those assets were worth at the time they were 
disclosed to C SS and not what they cost Mr R to purchase in the first place. I dont think the 
term is workable on the construction CSS gives to it.  
 
But if the word investments is taken as a reference to the investments offered through CSS, 
then the 25% calculation i s workable.  In short, Mr R is saying he wants no more than 25% 
of the investments CSS recommends to him to be high risk. When calculating the 25%, CSS 
is to take account of the acquisition costs of those investments (and not, presumably, their 
value takin g investment growth into  account).  
 
It follows from this that the sensible, objective construction to give to that term is that Mr R 
was prepared to accept a high level of risk in respect of 25% of the investments he made 
with or through CSS.  
 
Im aware th at CSS will say that it did not offer any other investments  that it only offered 
investments in early stage growth companies, which, as I have already found, were all high 
risk. However, that is not what the agreement with Mr R said. It is plain from cla use 4, 
Services to be provided under this agreement that advisory and deal arranging services 
would be offered not only in shares in public or private companies, but also in regulated 
collective investment schemes such as unit trusts and  any other inves tments or instruments 
as we may agree from time to time . Ref: DRN2430271  
31  
  
 
 
 
 
 
I should also point out also that the 25% term was a standard clause in the agreement. 
Whilst Mr R ticked a box to say the clause applied to him, and provided the figure of 25%, 
the term was otherwise part of CSS standard client agreement. In turn, and to  the extent 
that there was any ambiguity about the meaning of that term, it was incumbent on CSS to 
take steps to clarify its scope with Mr R. As I understand it, no such steps were taken.  
 
It follows that in my view, at the outset of their advisory relati onship, Mr R and CSS agreed 
that no more than 25% of the investments recommended by CSS to Mr R would be high risk. 
That means that each time CSS recommended a deal to Mr R, they were required to take 
his stated risk threshold into  account.  
 
application of  25% term  
 
Looking at the investments Mr R made through CSS they were all high risk which means he 
was always invested 100% in high risk investments. So the originally agreed 25% threshold 
was breached throughout CSSs dealings with Mr R. Based on their agreement wit h Mr R, 
CSS should have included 75% non -high risk investments in their recommendations, which 
they didnt do.  
 
However, notwithstanding the terms on which Mr R and CSS initially agreed to conduct their 
business, I have also given very careful thought to t he manner in which their business was 
conducted over time in order to see whether the 25% term continued to apply to their 
dealings. Its worth noting that Mr Rs risk appetite with regards to CSSs recommendations 
could have changed at any point and in th is context I dont think I can ignore Mr Rs actions 
here. I appreciate he told us that throughout his dealings with CSS, only a maximum of 25% 
of CSSs offers would be high -risk investments and the other recommendations would be 
low risk. Although Ive sa id that this was contractual basis on which their relationship began, 
I dont find it plausible to say that this is how Mr R continued to indicate his attitude to risk to 
CSS as the relationship unfolded. As explained above, based on the evidence Ive seen , I 
think Mr R likely knew that the investments recommended to him by CSS were all high risk, 
and further, that he understood the implications of that. And I cant see that he ever raised 
this with CSS as an issue at any point during their advisory relatio nship.  
 
What I think is more likely is that, despite the risk, Mr R wanted to continue to access the 
investment deals recommended by CSS and was prepared to make more high -risk 
investments through CSS over time than he originally might have intended.  
 
I appreciate CSS didnt follow the original agreement or alternatively didnt check with Mr R 
at any point if he was willing to invest more than 25% into high risk investments which I think 
they should have done. But given that Mr R to my mind knowingly accept ed 
recommendations into high risk investments through CSS, I think shows that he was 
prepared to invest more into high risk investments than he originally agreed. On balance I 
think Mr R made an informed choice to invest purely in high risk investments thr ough CSS 
and he was prepared to take that risk.  
 
Even if CSS had broached the 25% term with him, as I have said they should have, it is my 
view that he would still have wanted to invest in the high -risk investments he eventually 
transacted with CSS. That appears to be the reason he approached CSS in the first place. 
He wanted to access investment possibilities in early stage growth companies. CSS offered 
a relatively niche service in that regard. Im satisfied that, notwithstanding the investment 
objectives he initially agreed with CSS in the 25% term, it  became clear over time that Mr R 
was happy for CSS to only propose the venture capital opportunities it specialised in.  Ref: DRN2430271  
32  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Having said that, CSS still had an obligation to make sure the investments were suitable. As 
I have previously  decided, CSS wrongly classified Mr R as an intermediate customer. In 
turn, CSS was required to treat Mr R as a private client and was therefore required to ensure 
the investment advice it gave him was suitable, taking into account the information Mr R had  
disclosed or any other relevant facts of which CSS should have been  aware.  
 
did CSSs recommendations continue to be suitable for Mr R?  
 
As I have outlined above, I consider each investment made through CSS was suitable for 
Mr R given his attitude to risk  and likely understanding of the risk he was taking.  
Nonetheless, the suitability assessment also required CSS to make sure Mr R had the 
required capacity for loss - in other words CSS had to have regard to the level of investment 
loss he was financially a ble to bear. CSS had to make sure that they stopped recommending 
high risk investments when they reasonably considered his capacity for loss had been 
reached, even if Mr R might have been prepared to carry on investing. Where attitude to risk 
is a subjecti ve and emotive response to risk which Mr R could change, capacity for loss is an 
objective measure which CSS had to assess for Mr R. They had to act in his best interest.  
 
In applying this standard, I have taken account of relevant law and regulations; reg ulators' 
rules, guidance and standards (including COB 5.3 and COBS 9.2); and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time.  
 
Ultimately, I consider it fair and reasonable to expect CSS to have stopped recommending 
high risk inves tments to Mr R at the point at which he was no longer financially able to bear 
the loss should those investments fail.  
 
And I think CSS acknowledged that this was something they should have considered. In an 
email to us in November 2016 CSS said:  
 
Mr R did inform the firm in 2006 that he had sold his business for some £750,000, which 
reassured us that the quantum of money he was investing in the opportunities we were 
presenting was appropriate to his circumstances. [my emphasis].  
 
In their existing clients and suitability reports they recorded information about Mr Rs overall 
investments, so based on what theyve said I thin k its reasonable to assume they were 
recording this to monitor the amount Mr R was investing compared to his available funds and in 
turn to ensure their recommendations were still appropriate with regards to his capacity for loss.  
 
I can see that CSS didn t have enough information to fully assess Mr Rs capacity for loss 
with what I would call reasonable precision. They didnt know his income and outgoings, how 
exactly his other assets were invested and in what way he relied on the funds invested with 
CSS.  And I dont know how much information Mr R would have given CSS if they had asked 
him. They were only advising him on certain investments and werent his financial advisers 
with regards to his overall financial situation. So its possible Mr R might not h ave wanted to 
divulge full information about his overall financial position. I think the limited information he 
did provide on the client forms supports this. And a call note after a conversation between Mr 
R and this service in April 2016 recorded:  
 
He s aid he was modest with the amount he declared, and was quite modest in his assets. He 
scaled down things rather than being flamboyant. He got money from the sale of his business 
and also inherited from his parents. He used some of that money to make the in vestments.  Ref: DRN2430271  
33  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Given the above its unclear to what extent Mr R would have provided information to CSS if 
they had asked further questions. I also think its difficult now to establish with enough 
certainty Mr Rs full financial situat ion at the time the investments were made. So I have 
considered what conclusions CSS should reasonably have reached about Mr Rs capacity 
for loss, given the information they had available.  
 
Although as explained above the 25% term in the client agreement related to Mr Rs 
preparedness at that point to invest into high risk investments with CSS (which I think 
changed over time), I nonetheless think 25% was a reasonable measure for CSS regarding 
Mr Rs capacity for loss in the circumstances.  
 
CSS themselves said they kept Mr Rs limit on the client form broadly in mind when making 
their recommendations and that the 25% figure was guidance to them about which 
investments they should introduce and that the percentage in high risk investments 
comp ared to his total portfolio didnt exceed this limit.  
 
I also considered that Mr Rs former representatives said in an email to this service after a 
previous decision by this service in February 2018:  
 
we are in agreement with the ombudsman that [Mr R]s net investment value at the time was 
around £900,000, 20 -25% of this is between £180,000 - £250,000. This should have been 
used as a defined figure for [Mr Rs] capacity for loss by CSSP. [my emphasis]  
 
And Mr R hasnt refuted at any point during this com plaint that using this methodology was 
unreasonable and that he had in fact a lower capacity for loss. So I think on balance together 
with the limited information we do hold about Mr Rs financial situation over his investment 
period with CSS, it is reason able to assume Mr R could afford to lose 25% of the portfolio 
value he had declared to CSS.  
 
I dont think CSS could reasonably assume without more information that his capacity for 
loss was higher than this. I think they also should have borne in mind tha t the investments 
Mr R was entering into were not just high risk to the point where they could fluctuate, lose 
value or take some time to come to fruition. There was a genuine risk that Mr R could lose all 
of the capital he was investing. Holding 25% of a total investment portfolio in such assets is 
already high in my opinion and I would say many investors would not have the capacity to 
even lose this  much.  
 
Looking at the portfolio information Mr R did provide to CSS and for reasons set out above I 
think h e likely did have this level of capacity for loss. But Im not convinced it would have 
been any higher than 25%. So on balance I dont think it was appropriate for CSS to 
recommend any investments to Mr R which meant his CSS investments exceeded this limit . 
 
what would Mr R have done if CSS had stopped recommending investments?  
 
As I explained before I think Mr R was prepared to invest in high risk shares and I have 
found that, even if CSS had taken steps to clarify the 25% term with him, he would more 
likely than not have continued to invest into the higher risk investments CSS were proposing 
to him.  Ref: DRN2430271  
34  
  
 
 
 
 
 
However, I dont think that would have been the case if CSS had told him at the required 
point that, based on the information they held, he had reached his capacity for loss limit. 
CSS should have explained to Mr R that in their view the amount he had inve sted in high risk 
investments had reached a loss limit they thought he couldnt reasonably afford to exceed 
given his financial circumstances and that in turn they would not be recommending any more 
high-risk investments to him as it wasnt appropriate. If  they had explained this, I dont think 
Mr R would have insisted on continuing to invest in this way. From what Ive seen it looks 
like CSS was generally initiating contact. So if they had told him they would stop 
recommendations and did not call him anymo re for a while, I think its more likely than not he 
wouldnt have actively pursued high risk investments through them. It follows that he 
wouldnt have ended up with investments through CSS which breached that  limit. 
 
I have considered whether Mr R might have continued to invest in similar high -risk 
investments elsewhere even if CSS had stopped recommending such investments to him. 
CSS provided evidence that Mr R bought shares of private companies in 2012 and 2015 
without CSSs involvement (Eastern Contine ntal Mining and Development Ltd and Arro 
Supranano Ltd) which they say shows he still had an appetite for high risk investments even 
after his dealings with CSS.  
 
I accept that there is evidence that Mr R did invest to a small extent in private companies a  
few years after his relationship with CSS had ended and I think its reasonable to assume 
that Mr R continued to be interested in this type of investment. However, if CSS had made it 
clear they were concerned about Mr Rs ability to absorb more losses fro m high risk 
investments and had told him he shouldnt invest more into high risk investments as higher 
losses would have a detrimental effect on his overall financial situation, I think he would have 
listened to CSS concerns and invested his available fun ds in lower risk investments for a 
while. In any event, I dont think he would have invested to the same extent into high risk 
investments as he did with CSS.  
 
Nonetheless, I also considered what likely would have happened if Mr R had approached a 
differen t firm for the same kind of high -risk of investments directly after CSS stopped their 
recommendations. And I think on balance after reviewing Mr Rs financial situation and 
taking into account his existing investments with CSS, its likely they also would have found it 
was inappropriate for Mr R to invest further into high risk investments. If it was an adviser 
firm they would have likely recommended against further high -risk investments and even 
financial businesses who only promoted high risk investments would likely have found it was 
inappropriate to promote high risk investments to Mr R given his existing exposure 
compared to his financial situation.  
 
In summary, I think Mr R on balance wouldnt have looked elsewhere to invest the same way 
he did with CS S after they had stopped their recommendations and warned against further 
exposure to high risk investments. And even if he did, I think he would have found it difficult 
to find another firm that was reasonably prepared to deal with him in respect of simil ar types 
of high -risk investments at this point.  Ref: DRN2430271  
35  
  
 
 
 
 
 
fair compensation  
 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr R 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.  
 
I think any funds he wouldnt have invested through CSS (at the poi nt they breached his 
capacity for loss) would still have been invested but would have been invested differently by 
Mr R. I dont know exactly what he would have invested in instead. However, and in line with 
my assessment of his broader portfolio risk prof ile above, I am satisfied that what I have set 
out below is fair and reasonable taking that into account and given Mr R's circumstances 
and objectives when he  invested.  
 
how should the 25% capacity for loss limit be assessed?  
 
I think its reasonable in th e circumstances to consider that CSS should have based their 
assessment whether Mr R had the capacity for loss on the financial information they had 
recorded about Mr Rs investment portfolio. I appreciate CSS says Mr Rs investment 
portfolio might have ha d a much higher value, for example they referred to a commercial 
property he held in his self -invested personal pension that they werent aware of at the time. 
And given what Mr R said to this service about being modest in his declarations to CSS, this 
is quite likely. The argument here would be that a higher portfolio value would mean a higher 
capacity for loss in monetary terms.  
 
But I think CSS could only consider suitability based on the information available to them. If 
Mr R had overstated his assets I  equally would expect CSS to be able to rely on this 
information and not on Mr Rs actual assets at the time.  
 
The value of Mr Rs investments that was known to CSS changed over time. In January 
2006 Mr R said he had £100k in tradeable investments and £50k  in liquid savings. Over time 
the value increased. Whenever an investment was made CSS recorded Mr Rs portfolio size 
and the information they held was regularly verified with Mr R. Ive seen financial information 
reports which were sent to him and which h e amended where he saw necessary, so I think 
its reasonable to rely on these  values.  
 
On 9 July 2009, when making his last investment through CSS, his portfolio size was 
recorded as £1.735,710.85 which was broken down as:  
 
Tradeable investments: £135,750 
Liquid savings: £70,000  
Peps ISAs: £150,000  
Private/unquoted companies: £639,960 
2nd property: £740,000  
 
These values included all of the CSS investments including the one he was about to make. I 
know that CSS said Mr R sold his company for £750,000 and when they previously 
calculated Mr Rs percentage of CSS investments they added this sum to Mr Rs portfoli o 
from September 2007, but I cant see what information they were actually given about this by 
Mr R and at what point.  Ref: DRN2430271  
36  
  
 
 
 
 
 
The diary notes in January 2006 show that Mr R was in the process of selling his business 
and it looks like that this sum was mentioned, but in March 2006 the notes record he sold his 
business for over £100k and a couple of weeks later its noted the sale fell through. Mr R has 
also mentioned the sale of his company, but I havent seen any other evidence to show what  
information Mr R had given CSS about the sale of his business after that.  
 
The proceeds of the sale also werent specifically considered in the portfolio size when CSS 
completed their records before every investment. There is no mention of it. Unless CSS can 
provide further evidence, I cant see that CSS knew for how much and when Mr R sold his 
business and what had happened to these funds. Any increases in the recorded portfolio 
value which werent down to CSS investments could have in theory also been fu nded from 
the sale of his business, for example the increase in savings, tradeable assets or the higher 
value of a second property which was recorded by CSS. So I dont think CSS could have 
considered this sum in addition to the portfolio values when asses sing Mr Rs exposure to 
high risk investments, without clearer information from Mr R about the business sale.  
 
I think it would have been clear to Mr R that CSS werent providing advice on his overall 
financial situation and could only consider information  they had. He was advised by CSS to 
provide as much information about his financial situation as possible and I think in these 
circumstances its reasonable for CSS to only consider the information they were provided 
by Mr R and apply his capacity for loss  limits to these values.  
 
Before recommending an investment, I think CSS should have referred to the current 
portfolio size on their existing client and suitability report (amount set out under Total ) and 
worked out whether this next investment would tak e Mr Rs CSS portfolio above his 25% 
capacity for loss.  
 
Using these numbers on the CSS reports and the investments Mr R made (see table below), 
I consider that the last suitable investment recommended to Mr R was the Miras investment 
on 7 August 2006 for £11,250. Every investment after this date exceeded Mr Rs 25%  
capacity for loss limit, so was an unsuitable investment that shouldnt have been  
recommended . It follows Mr R wouldnt have invested £430,152.66 with CSS.  
 
 
 
 
what should CSS do?  
 
To compensate Mr R fairly, CSS must:  
 
2) compare the performance of Mr R's unsuitable investments with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investments. If the combined actual value is greater than the 
combined fair value, no compensation is payable. CSS should also pay interest as 
set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest  awarded.  
 
investment 
name  benchmark  from (start 
date)  to (end 
date)  additional interest  
Unsuitable  FTSE UK  date when   8% simple per year from  
investments  Private  each  date of my  date of decision to date of  
in CSS  Investors  unsuitable  final decision  settlement (if  
portfolio (as  Income Total  investment   compensation is not paid  Ref: DRN2430271  
37  
  
 
 
 
 
 
identified 
above)  Return Index  was made   within 28 days of the 
business being notified of 
acceptance)  
 
Actual value  
 
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.  
 
If at the end date an investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr R agrees to CSS taking ownership 
of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for CSS to take ownership, then it may 
request an undertaking from Mr R that he repays to CSS any amount he may rec eive from 
the investment in future.  
 
Fair value  
 
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.  
 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on.  
 
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if CSS 
totals all those payments and  deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.  
 
why is this remedy suitable?  
 
I have chosen this method of compensation because:  
 
 Mr R wanted capital growth from the investments he purchased through CSS and was 
willing to accept high in vestment risk in connection with those  investments.  
 
 However, CSS should not have recommended investments that exceeded Mr Rs threshold 
for capacity for loss of 25% of his wider financial portfolio that was known to  CSS.  
 
 If CSS had explained that threshold for loss to Mr R and stopped recommending high 
risk investments, Mr R would likely not have invested the level of money he did in high 
risk investments through CSS or  elsewhere.  
 
 He would still have invested the money that exceeded his 25% threshold for loss and 
any alternative investments would likely st ill have a reasonable amount of  risk. 
 
 The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equi ties and government bonds. It would 
be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.  
 
 Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index 
is close enough to allow me to use it as  a reasonable measure of comparison given  Mr Ref: DRN2430271  
38  
  
 
 
 
 
 
R's circumstances and risk attitude.  
 
I appreciate CSS think this benchmark doesnt reflect sufficiently that Mr R was likely to 
continue in high risk investments be it through CSS or elsewhere. However, and as Ive 
outlined above, Im satisfied that on balance and following the explanation of  his capacity for 
loss, Mr R would not have invested all sums he didnt invest through CSS into the same 
category of high -risk investments elsewhere. So I think on balance the index used is 
reasonable in these circumstances.  
 
my provisional decision  
 
Where  I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that CS S pays the 
balance.  
 
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My provisional decision is that CSS should pay the amount 
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150, 000 plus any interest set out above.  
 
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds  
£150,000, I recommend that CSS pays Mr R the balance plus any interest on the balance as 
set out above.  
 
If CSS does not pay the fu ll fair compensation (including the recommendation if fair 
compensation exceeds £150,000), then any investment currently illiquid should be retained 
by Mr R. This is until any future benefit that he may receive from the investment together 
with the compens ation paid by CSS (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair 
compensation as set out above.  
 
CSS may request an undertaking from Mr R that either he repays to CSS any amount Mr R may 
receive from the investment thereafter or if possible, transfers t he investment at that point.  
 
my provisional decision  
 
I intend to uphold Mr Rs complaint and request Charles Street Securities Europe LLP to pay 
the compensation as set out above.  
 
Nina Walter  
ombudsman  