K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  he couldnt access the information on his credit record with Callcredit 
Consumer Limited, trading as Noddle.  When he tried to sort out some of the problems, he 
was concerned by the bad customer service he got over the phone. 
background
Mr L was having  issues with his Noddle account registration in August 2018 and was told 
there was no account registered against  that specific email address. Mr L continued to have 
problems with his Noddle account until they confirmed Mr Ls account had been  set up. Mr L 
then had trouble  changing  his password and he complained that he needed to find out 
information on his credit record because he wanted to make a mortgage  application.  He 
continued to have difficulty accessing his account.  He made a call on 2 October 2018 to 
speak to the person hed been dealing with. Mr L was only able to speak to a receptionist,  
someone who he says was rude to him.
Noddle has agreed with the account Mr L has given but felt these issues  were all sorted.  
They provided him with a final response  on 24 October 2018 confirming this. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint because she felt that not having access to his 
credit information did not mean Mr L couldnt have  got a mortgage. She felt the receptionist 
was not rude but could not help Mr L because she was not employed by Noddle and so did 
not know the complaints procedure for Noddle. Mr L did not agree with this outcome and the 
matter has now come to me for final decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not be upholding the complaint and I 
will explain  why.
Noddle is an online only service allowing customers to access information on their credit 
record. All contact with Noddle is through email. Mr L wanted to access his Noddle account  
to check his credit status as he was going to apply for a mortgage. Mr L had difficulties with 
registering and accessing his Noddle account from 20 August until 5 September. This was 
because there was no account  registered  under the email address that Mr L was using. Mr L 
has two email accounts so it is more  than likely  that he was using his other email account to 
try and access his account. That is why he was having problems which  I can see Noddle 
explained to him.
Mr L contacted Noddle  on 7 September as he was having  problems  changing his password. 
Noddle have  stated  in their evidence that after investigation it was found  Mr L was having 
problems entering  his user name correctly and he was offered a prompt.
Looking at this information I can see Mr L was having difficulties with accessing  his account 
and this must have  been frustrating. However I dont think the evidence  shows this was 
because of anything  that Noodle was doing  wrong.  Mr L was unwilling to answer the new 
security questions on 9 October  2018  and this delayed his account being unlocked.  Mr Ls 
account was unlocked on 11 October. Noddle corrected his address and gave him 
information about lodging a Notice of Correction on 15 October 2018.
Ref: DRN29168992Having considered the evidence relating  to delays in responding to his queries I have 
checked and I can see that Noddle dont say how long they will take to respond to a 
customer query. I am satisfied that Noddle responded within a reasonable time and the 
delays in accessing Mr Ls account were  as much down to user error  and not anything  that 
Noodle did wrong.
One of Mr Ls main complaints to us was in relation to the customer  service he received on 2 
October 2018 when  he had a conversation with a receptionist trying  to route his call. I have 
listened to this call. The receptionist tried to put Mr L through  to the person he wanted to 
speak to but he wasnt available. She then offered to send him a message. Mr L was 
unhappy with this and wanted  immediate access to his account. It was explained to him that 
she wasnt able to do this and why. Having listened  to the call I understand Mr L was 
frustrated he couldnt speak to someone who could help in the way Mr L wanted. It must be 
annoying to have contact details for someone who wasnt versed in all of Noddles 
procedures but Im not sure this necessarily equates to bad customer  service. Nor do I 
believe the person  Mr L was talking to was rude. In fact she was trying to be as helpful as 
possible in the circumstances. Mr Ls problems were sorted out within  a few days.
Mr L mentioned that he wanted to check his credit  file as he wanted to apply  for a mortgage. 
I can see Mr Ls problems accessing his file were frustrating but I dont believe that not being  
able to access his credit file would have  affected his mortgage application.  During our 
investigation Mr L did not mention any further  issues with his mortgage application. I would 
expect that if Mr Ls difficulties in accessing his credit file affected his mortgage application 
this would have  been the main subject of his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Esperanza Fuentes 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2916899