K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  declined her claim for an injection. 
background
In 2018, Mrs K was diagnosed with wet macular disease;  a condition affecting  the eyes. She 
contacted AXA following  her diagnosis and was referred to a Consultant Ophthalmic 
Surgeon. That consultant  recommended  three injections in the affected  eye, with one 
injection being administered  every four weeks. And Mrs K went  ahead  with that. 
AXA agreed to cover the costs of the first and second injection. But it said it wouldnt cover 
the third one because  it was available on the NHS within six weeks   a feature of Mrs Ks 
policy called a six week safety net which meant  cover wasnt provided if NHS treatment was 
available within that time.  Mrs K disagreed  with AXAs decision though and complained.
Mrs K said that AXA had authorised the first injection  during her initial consultation  and the 
second and third during a phone call with her husband. She said that AXA had told her the 
injections would be covered in writing. And she also said that the injections should have 
been covered  under  her outpatient benefit.
In response, AXA said that it had authorised the first injection during Mrs Ks consultation  but 
it had told her the remaining two would be subject  to the six week safety net. AXA said 
Mrs Ks consultant had confirmed the remaining two were available on the NHS  within  that 
time frame. And that it had explained,  itd only paid for the second  one because  her 
consultant had been away at the time and an NHS referral  was unlikely to happen before the 
second injection was due. AXA said it had told Mrs K the third injection wouldnt be covered  
though. And although it was sorry one if its letters caused any confusion,  it was her decision 
to go ahead with the third injection privately.
However, Mrs K remained unhappy.  She approached this service and one of our 
investigators looked at what  had happened. But they thought AXA had applied  the six week 
safety net fairly and didnt think Mrs Ks injections would have been covered under her 
outpatient benefit. They didnt recommend that Mrs Ks complaint be upheld, but Mrs K 
disagreed and reiterated her concerns. And so, as no agreement  was reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint and will explain why. 
The relevant  rules, which are set out in full under  ICOBS and can be found in the FCA 
Handbook, explain that an insurer must  handle  claims promptly  and fairly and mustnt reject  
them unreasonably. Mrs Ks policy has a six week safety net attached to it which  is 
explained as:
You chose to add the Six week Safety net to your policy. This means that your cover is for 
in-patient treatment, day-patient treatment, cancer  treatment and any surgical  procedure  if 
the NHS  cant give you that treatment within six weeks of when treatment should  take place.
Ref: DRN25093422Mrs Ks consultant confirmed that her second  and third injections were available on the NHS 
within six weeks. And AXA has explained  why it chose to cover  the second  injection despite 
that. I think that covering the second injection was the right thing  for AXA to do in the 
circumstances. But I dont  think it acted  unreasonably in concluding that the third injection 
wasnt eligible for cover, having received confirmation that it was available on the NHS within  
six weeks. 
Mrs K says AXA didnt tell her that though, and says it specifically told her husband  on the 
phone that the remaining injections would be covered.  In relation to that particular call, I note 
that Mrs Ks husband told AXA Mrs K had already had diagnostic tests  and an injection, and 
there were two follow-ups  due for continuance of treatment. However,  when AXA asked 
whether those follow-ups  were just for consultations,  Mrs Ks husband responded, that is 
correct, yes. Consequently,  the call went on to discuss follow-up consultations only.  And 
because there wasnt  a yearly limit for consultations on Mrs Ks policy,  she was entitled to 
two additional  follow-up consultations and AXA confirmed that.
I think its fair to say that there appears to have been  a genuine misunderstanding resulting 
from that call. But I dont think itd be fair of me to hold AXA responsible for that. I say this 
because AXA had asked  whether the follow-ups were just consultations, and it had been told 
that they were. I appreciate that the follow-ups  werent for consultations,  they were for the 
remaining two injections, but Im not persuaded AXA was aware of that during that particular 
call. 
Mrs Ks consultant went on to confirm  that the remaining injections were available  on the 
NHS after that call took place. And AXA wrote to Mrs K to explain why itd applied  the six 
week safety net to her treatment. In doing so, it said her last remaining injection should 
continue to be sought under the NHS or as a self-funding patient. 
I know that Mrs K says AXA also wrote to her to confirm itd be providing cover. But the letter 
Mrs K refers  to was dated 17 September 2018  and, as I understand it, her third injection was 
administered on 13 September 2018. So at the point  she went  ahead with the third injection 
shed already been told it should be sought via the NHS or self-funded.
I fully appreciate that AXAs  letter  may have caused confusion  post-injection  though. AXA 
told Mrs K that one of its teams  purely responsible for reviewing the nature of her condition 
(the wet macular disease)  had only written  to confirm eligibility of the condition  itself. But, 
unfortunately, it said that team hadnt reviewed the condition in conjunction with the actual 
claim for treatment. 
Its disappointing that didnt happen  before  AXAs letter was sent, and I can see why its 
receipt may well have caused real confusion. But I must keep in mind that at the point Mrs K 
went ahead  with the third injection, shed had confirmation that it wouldnt be covered. So Im 
not persuaded that itd be fair of me to ask AXA to cover the costs of the third injection 
because of that.
I understand that Mrs K says her injections should  have been  covered under her outpatient 
benefit. But her policy  says:
If you have  an out-patient  option,  you can go privately for out-patient consultations,  
diagnostic tests that do not involve surgery, and CT, MRI or PET scans, whatever the length 
of the NHS wait. 
Ref: DRN25093423The treatment that Mrs K received isnt included within  that. And Ive already set out that her 
injections were subject  to the six week safety  net and I dont think AXA acted unreasonably 
in declining to cover the cost of the third one. I realise that Mrs K will be disappointed  by that, 
but for the reasons given  above I wont be asking AXA to do anything. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019. 
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2509342