K821x#15complaint
Ms T is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva) will not meet  her claim 
under her group critical illness scheme  for total and permanent disability. Aviva says it 
cannot pay a claim  because exclusion wording for associated conditions applies to Ms Ts 
claim. Ms T says the wording does  not apply, and that it is misleading  the condition  she 
has now was not present  when she joined the group scheme.  
background
Ms T became a member of her employers group critical illness scheme  in January 2015. It 
offered her a lump sum payment of £50,000  if she was to be diagnosed with one of the 
policys listed critical illnesses. The sum assured  for Ms T increased in January 2017 to 
£75,000.  
In April 2017, Ms T made  a claim under the policy  for total and permanent disability (TPD) 
benefit. She explained that she had been suffering from chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) 
since 2015. Ms T has been unable to work from September  2015 onwards. 
Aviva took the view that it was possible that Ms T might return  to work. It told her employer 
that it could not meet  a claim on that basis. 
In April 2018, Ms T pursued  the claim again.  She says that by this time her health had 
deteriorated further. She felt it was now clear that she was totally  and permanently disabled,  
as she couldnt  work  in any capacity. Aviva initially refused the claim again in April 2018. It 
said it did not have  sufficient evidence to conclude  Ms T met the TPD definition.  However,  by 
June 2018 it noted that further information showed  Ms T could not return  to work and that all 
treatment options  open to her had been exhausted. It therefore agreed that Ms Ts 
circumstances did meet the TPD wording set out in the group scheme policy  as at 24 May 
2018.  
However, Aviva said it couldnt pay the claim in any event. That was because it felt the 
associated conditions exclusion now applied to Ms Ts claim. Specifically, it said that Ms T 
was suffering from chronic fatigue  in 2014, and this had been documented by her GP. She 
had also suffered from joint pain prior to joining the scheme in 2015.  
Ms T remained  unhappy that her claim was being refused. She explained that her treating 
consultant confirmed the onset of her illness was sometime after August 2015. She also said 
that while she suffered  from exhaustion  in 2014,  this was distinct  from the onset of CFS. She 
contended that there  was no medical evidence to show  that the issues  shed had in 2014 
contributed to or were related to her CFS diagnosis in 2015.  
Aviva wouldnt  change  its view, so Ms T referred the complaint to this service  where  it was 
reviewed by one of our investigators.  He felt the complaint should succeed. He said that the 
evidence of 2014 was not as persuasive as the later diagnosis  of 2015. He did not feel that 
Ms T having a very stressful year in 2014 could or should be linked to her CFS diagnosis  
since later evidence made clear the trigger for the diagnosis was a head and neck  injury  in 
2015. 
Our investigator proposed that Aviva pay the claim of £75,000,  along  with 8% interest from 
the date the claim  was refused on the grounds of the exclusion.  
Ref: DRN27760492Aviva disagreed. It said, in summary:
our investigator placed reliance on the evidence of a clinical nurse, Nurse R, who 
specialises in CFS  specifically her letter of May 2018;
but in an earlier letter of December 2016,  Nurse R referred to Ms Ts timeline  of 
events as having taken place from 2014 when Ms T suffered from flu, tonsillitis and 
an ear infection;
Nurse R had also made  similar  comments in March 2018 regarding  the timeline;
if these were not of relevance, Nurse R wouldnt have mentioned them  at all;
in fact, Nurse R expressly said they contributed to the development of Ms Ts 
condition;
and a rheumatology letter of 26 August 2015 refers  to an 18-month  history of CFS;
it was not reasonable for the investigator  to conclude the GP notes make  no mention 
of Ms T being  fatigued simply  because the word fatigue was not chosen by the GP;
the records  from March and November 2014 refer to being tired all the time and 
exhausted  Aviva  feels this comes  under  the umbrella  of chronic  fatigue;
the benefit payable  for the claim if the exclusion hadnt applied would be £50,000,  not 
£75,000  thats  because  the policy terms are clear  that the exclusion also applies for 
two years  following any increase  in member benefit;
Ms Ts claim -if valid but for the exclusion- would  have  been accepted in May 2018, 
less than two years  after increasing her benefit from £50,000  to £75,000 in January 
2017);
May 2018 is the relevant claims date because that was when there was sufficient 
evidence to confirm  permanency of Ms Ts condition, meaning that the TPD wording 
had been met.  
Our investigator reviewed  Avivas further  comments. He reconsidered the claim value and 
agreed the correct  benefit amount for the claim was in fact £50,000.  But, he remained  of the 
view that Aviva ought to pay the claim.  
Ms T didnt have any further  comments to make other than to reiterate the hardship  she is 
suffering due to being unable to work. Aviva asked for the matter to be passed to an 
ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further,  Id like to thank Ms T for her patience whilst this matter  awaited a 
decision  I realise  that it was some time before  it could be assigned  to an ombudsman,  and 
when it was assigned,  that ombudsman changed  roles so she was no longer able to 
progress the complaint.  The complaint was then passed to me. 
Having reviewed all of the evidence, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator  
that a claim ought  to be paid to Ms T (though I agree with Aviva that the claim value is 
£50,000 not £75,000). Ill set out my reasons below. 
Neither party disputes that, but for the associated conditions exclusion, Ms Ts 
circumstances meet the TPD wording set out in the relevant group scheme policy terms. 
However, Aviva says that the exclusion does apply,  and its therefore justified in declining 
Ref: DRN27760493the claim.  The exclusion is set out at section 4.5 of the policy,  and I feel its necessary for me 
to set it out below.  It says:
Friends  Life will not be liable for any claim for member benefit for any member, or 
child benefit for any child, for any critical illness or operation in respect of which any 
associated condition existed (whether  diagnosed  or not) at any time prior to the 
cover start date. This exclusion applies from the cover start date.  
This exclusion applies from the cover start date and in respect  of an increase in 
member benefit, the amount of increase is subject  to a new exclusion from the date 
that increase takes effect. 
Where the claim is for a critical illness or operation other than:
Loss of independent existence
Paralysis of limbs
Terminal illness 
And total permanent  disability
Friends Life will not apply the associated condition exclusion where a member or 
child does not suffer a critical illness or undergo an operation  covered  by the policy  
during the first two years from the cover start date.     
Since Ms Ts claim is for TPD, the two-year period  following which  the exclusion will be 
waived does not apply to her claim.   
Associated condition  is set out within the policy  wording as:
Any symptom, condition,  illness,  injury, disease  or treatment which is either:
recognised by reasonable specialist medical  opinion to be related to the 
occurrence of a critical illness or operation ; or
listed in clause 12 of this policy
Clause 12 contains  the full list of claimable conditions with associated conditions  for each. 
For TPD, this says:
Condition: Total permanent disability
Associated conditions:  Multiple sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, motor neurone  
disease, or any disease or disorder of the brain, spinal cord or column.  Arthritis. 
Chronic or recurrent mental  illness. Chronic  or recurrent back, neck, joint or muscle 
pain. Chronic or recurrent fatigue.
Aviva takes  the view that Ms T was suffering from two specified associated  conditions prior 
to joining  the scheme  in January 2015   those being joint pain and chronic fatigue. Further,  it 
says that these were  both related  to the CFS that Ms T suffers  from now.   
The reason  for the two-year moratorium on associated  conditions (and a complete exclusion 
for the four specific conditions, including TPD)  is that new entrants to group critical illness 
schemes are not underwritten upon  joining. An insurer is entitled to protect itself from claims 
where a new member (and also in Ms Ts case where a policyholder  increases his or her 
Ref: DRN27760494benefit) is suffering from an existing illness. To apply exclusions of this nature is standard 
practice for group policies of this type.
I must therefore decide whether, on the evidence before me, Aviva has acted  reasonably in 
concluding that Ms T was suffering from CFS (or a symptom, condition,  illness  injury  or 
disease which led to her CFS diagnosis) before  she joined the scheme,  and at the time she 
increased her member benefit.  
Aviva says Ms Ts medical records show she had symptoms in 2014 which were likely  to be 
the onset of her CFS diagnosis. Ive looked  at those records, and I disagree. 
Ms T had a particularly difficult  year, in that she had a number of highly upsetting personal 
matters, which clearly  affected her. It was for that reason  counselling was proposed  by her 
GP. In relation to fatigue or joint pain, there is only one reference- that being March 2014.  
At this time, Ms T attended the GP for hot flushes  this is given as the primary cause for 
her seeing  the GP. It was reported in that note that she was suffering from muscle pain in 
her thighs. It was also said she had complained of feeling tired all the time with her 
concentration affected, but she was not keen on taking HRT. The rest of the medical record 
goes on to talk about menstrual matters   and it is clear that the note is written in the context 
of possible menopause.  
I dont accept that these  two isolated comments in one record of 2014 are sufficient to 
conclude that these two symptoms were  related to Ms Ts later CFS diagnosis.  The other 
available medical  evidence does not bear that out. Ms T was sent for blood  tests following 
her March 2014 attendance. These  came  back in April 2014, noting  consistent with 
menopause transition. No follow  up happened  regarding this  and Ms T didnt go back  to 
the GP about  these issues before she joined the group scheme in January 2015. 
The reason  Ms T next saw the GP in September 2014 was because of stress,  following 
some personal issues relating to her family. That record shows it was her first attendance for 
a stress related  problem caused by a family member, leaving Ms T very upset. The record 
goes on to say that there was physically no problems. Given the progressive, long term 
and ongoing  nature of CFS, it is notable that Ms T was now not suffering  from tiredness or 
joint pain. This continued  to be the case,  where  on a review  in November 2014 also noted 
she didnt have any physical symptoms. In fact, Ms T had suffered from tonsillitis and flu for 
a number of months  from September 2014. 
Ms Ts GP supplied  a medical  report to Aviva dated 5 March  2017  recording Ms Ts CFS 
diagnosis and the symptoms of it. She was also asked, when was the first consultation for 
this condition? to which she recorded  22 November 2015. Aviva  went  on to ask the GP has 
your patient  ever suffered from any previous episodes of this condition before the dates 
shown above? If so please give details of dates and any periods of absence  from work. The 
GP said not which is recorded as chronic fatigue  syndrome. 
I agree  with that evidence. None of the contemporaneous evidence  from Ms Ts attendance 
at her doctors surgery supports that she was either  suffering  from a symptom/condition 
related to the occurrence of CFS or that she had chronic join pain or fatigue.  Ms T 
complained of one isolated event of tiredness and muscle pain. This did not recur before 
January 2015.  In fact, it was on 13 July 2015 where the records show Cervicalgia - pain in 
neck (First) because  Ms T walked  into low-hanging beam  4/7 ago, neck jolted and pains in 
neck and upper back since.  
Ref: DRN27760495Following this, Ms Ts records  go on routinely to review her frequently because thereafter  
she suffers  from continued pain  and this is indeed linked to her CFS diagnosis.  However,  
this incident took place  after Ms Ts cover start date where the exclusion no longer applied 
for the original £50,000 claim value. 
Aviva also says that Nurse R believed  the actual timeline of events leading  to Ms Ts 
diagnosis dated  back to 2014. I dont  believe thats  a reasonable conclusion when looking at 
all of the evidence  supplied by Nurse R. Firstly, she says in her medical report of March 
2017 that she cannot confirm if Ms T had suffered from CFS previously and she directs 
Aviva to Ms Ts GP about that.  
Aviva has pointed to a letter of December 2016 where Nurse R talks about  Ms Ts entire 
history. In that letter, she says Ms T articulated  well her timeline of events that contributed  
to the development of the condition. The first event is listed  as Ms T having contracted flu  
not the record of tiredness and muscle  pain of March 2014.  
But even though the timeline of events as stated by Nurse R is listed  as beginning with flu 
(September 2014), I believe  that Avivas reliance on that one sentence disregards the other 
medical evidence,  and the wider  context of that letter. The timeline referred is that of Ms Ts 
mental health disability  which was affected  in 2014 because of the specific and severe 
personal issues she was faced with. It is meant that Ms T was suffering with a particularly 
tough set of personal circumstances and that had a toll on her physical health. 
What that letter did not state  is that Ms T had any symptom, condition, illness, injury, disease 
or treatment  which Nurse R deemed to be related to the occurrence of CFS, nor did it record 
her as having suffered from chronic  joint pain or chronic fatigue/tiredness before January  
2015.  
In any event, Nurse R has gone on to give her qualified medical assessment. She did this in 
a letter  of May 2018, which said:
Further  to my report dated  7th March 2018I  can confirm  that Ms T became 
extremely unwell in 2014 but not with Chronic  Fatigue Syndrome (CFS/ME).
I can confirm that symptoms of the Menopause and Tonsillitis do not lead to CFS/ME 
and cannot be presumed to.
Ms T's other illnesses and events  precede, were recovered from, and were not 
themselves CFS/ME. I am satisfied that Ms T's head and neck injury,  sustained in 
2015, was the trigger  for the onset  of this condition.
Like our investigator,  I believe  this evidence is clear. Nurse  R is a suitably qualified medical 
professional and her assessment is that the symptoms Ms T suffered began  from the time 
she suffered a head injury in July 2015   seven months after she joined the group critical 
illness scheme.  
As an aside,  I have reviewed the letter of August 2015 from a differing consultant  physician 
who saw Ms T following a concern she had raised about stiffness in her ankles. That letter 
does refer to an 18 month  history  of more widespread pain and stiffness. However,  the 
consultant goes on to assess that as being  related to (suspected  at that time) tenderness in 
Ref: DRN27760496her hands  indicative  of osteoarthritis,  and back pain which Ms T self-reported as having  
existed in relation  to pregnancies  many year prior.  
The letter does not make any clear suggestion  that at any time prior to January 2015 Ms T 
had been suffering from any symptom, condition, illness, injury, or disease which  could be 
related to CFS. Nor does it say that she had chronic  fatigue. She did complain of joint pain  
but this record  is an isolated one. It is not supported by any other evidence.  I believe that the 
correct weight of evidence is the records of Nurse R, as a clinical specialist in CFS. If Ms T 
did have a history of chronic joint pain, Id reasonably expect  her GP records to reflect  that 
and they do not do so.  
putting things right
It follows that I believe the claim should succeed,  as I do not consider Aviva  was reasonable 
to conclude the associated conditions exclusion applied in Ms Ts specific  circumstances. 
The correct  claim payment is £50,000.  No associated  condition exclusion applies to Ms Ts 
circumstances as at the date she joined the group scheme. 
However, Ms T increased her benefit level to £75,000 as at 1 January 2017. By that time, 
she had been  diagnosed  with CFS, which had displayed with the onset of symptoms  from 
July 2015 onwards. 
The associated conditions exclusion clearly applies to the £25,000 increase. The symptoms  
and eventual diagnosis  occurred before the increase; and that triggered a new cover  start 
date. Aviva was right to conclude the increase to benefit is excluded  by the policy  terms.   
I direct  that the claim of £50,000 be paid in full, as at May 2018  the date from which Aviva 
confirmed Ms Ts circumstances met the insured illness in the policy terms. 
Interest should  be added  to the claim payment. This should be at a gross annual  rate of 8% 
simple, less tax (if properly deductible), from the date the claim shouldve been paid to the 
date of settlement.   
If Aviva considers it is legally obliged  to deduct  income tax from the interest, it must make 
the appropriate payment to HM Revenue  and Customs and send tax deduction  certificates to 
Ms T along with the compensation payment. If eligible, Ms T could thereafter reclaim any 
overpaid tax from HM Revenue and Customs.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must pay the claim value to Ms T, 
as set out above. I do not make any other award or direction.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2776049