K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains that Legal & General  Partnership  Services Limiteds advisor  wrongly 
recommended she replace her existing decreasing term life insurance  and critical illness 
policy with an inferior one, solely in order  to get more commission. She also raised other 
concerns about  the advisor. She also complained about the advice to replace her mortgage.  
This has been dealt  with via a separate consideration.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 4 February 2020.  A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Miss L said that while L & G had offered her £250, this had never been paid.
L & G did not respond to the provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons previously  outlined  I am 
satisfied that this complaint should  be upheld and with the compensation as described.
I therefore instruct L & G to pay the difference between the sum Miss L received last year 
and the amount she would have been  entitled  to under her original policy. It must then add 
8% simple  interest per annum to this figure.
It must also pay Miss L the £250  it originally  offered.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Legal  & General  Partnership Services  Limited  to pay 
compensation as outline above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN25654142provisional decision
complaint
Miss L complains that Legal  & General Partnership Services Limiteds advisor wrongly recommended  
she replace  her existing decreasing term life insurance and critical illness policy  with an inferior  one, 
solely in order to get more commission. She also raised other  concerns about the advisor. She also 
complained about the advice to replace her mortgage. This has been dealt with via a separate  
consideration.
background
In 2014 Miss L took out a replacement mortgage, reducing the outstanding  term from 18 to 12 years  
and was advised to replace  her life policy  with one with a comparably reduced term and a slightly  
smaller sum assured. In his introductory letter,  the advisor claimed that life companies were  now 
offering greater critical illness cover and for lower rates,  something Miss L could benefit from.  
Miss L made  a claim on the policy last year, receiving around £50,000; roughly £10,000  less than 
would have been payable under the original policy.
L & G largely  rejected  Miss Ls complaint, saying:
The existing policy was costing £34.32 a month while  the replacement was just £31.56;  and the 
term was reduced  to meet her shortened mortgage commitment
As she was single and with no dependents  she had no need for the additional  cover now 
provided by her original  policys higher sum and longer term
It did not accept the advisor  implied  he could  access the entire insurance  market; the sentence in 
question referred to the mortgage market
The advisor no longer worked for L & G so it was not responsible for him contacting her. It had 
explicitly told him not to do so but it recognised the trouble  and upset  this had caused and offered 
her £250 in lieu of this
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint should be upheld,  saying that the new policy  
matched the term and size of Miss Ls new mortgage commitment. He noted  that the policys terms 
stated that some critical illness criteria had been tightened, meaning it could be hard to claim for certain  
conditions, but that other claimable conditions  had been added. 
He also noted that, according to the advisor, Miss L had chosen this policy  partly due to this increase 
in the number  of claimable  conditions.  In his view,  this indicated there had been a discussion about  
the relative merits of the two policies.
He accepted that Miss L would have been eligible for a larger payment, having  recently made  a claim, 
if she had kept the original policy  but didnt  feel this made the advice inappropriate  at the time.
Miss L did not agree,  and said:
The advisor misled her into thinking  he was independent  and able to source the entire  
market
He wrongly claimed the new policy covered a wider range of illnesses
He recorded that this was a new policy  and not a replacement for the one hed sold 
previously  and on two official documents
The original policy included waiver of premium and Total Permanent  Disability (TPD) 
protection  so this replacement was not actually cheaper  or better value for money
Given  her workplace  cover, the income  deferment criteria meant this feature was of no value
The policys  premiums  have just risen
The advisor contacted her personally after she brought this complaint
Ref: DRN25654143my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Id firstly like to set out the correspondence I had with L & G after considering this complaint.
I asked it to respond to several points raised  by Miss L which I felt had not been dealt with, notably:
That the original  policy included Waiver  of Premium and Total  Disability (TPD) cover 
within the monthly cost;  the replacement did not include these
While  the advisor  claimed the new policy covered more conditions, in fact both 
covered 38
He also referred to insurers now having reduced their rates since Miss L took out her 
first policy but theres no evidence to support this assertion
I felt that the marginal  reduction in premiums was likely to reflected the absence of TPD and premium 
waiver along with the smaller  sum assured,  rather than a reduction in overall insurance rates
L & R replied, saying:
The advisor did not claim the new policy included either TPD or premium  waiver;  the 
policy paid out last year without either of these  features 
His comment about a reduction  in rates was a generic one and before he provided 
formal advice including an illustrated quote
There  had been both changes and additions  to the illnesses covered  and the criteria 
determining how and when  a claim  could be made; these were  set out in the letters 
I do not think  its always  necessarily to recommend replacing an existing term assurance policy when  
one reduces the mortgage  term. A policyholder can simply choose to stop paying premiums if/when 
they pay off their mortgage earlier than originally  planned.  So any recommendation to replace an 
existing plan for a shorter one needs to be based on clear  advantages  such as reduced cost, 
increased benefits  or other obvious advantages. 
Crucially, an advisor  needs to clearly and fairly set out such advantages and disadvantages so that a 
client is in a fully informed position to decide whether to go ahead  with the recommendation. This is 
the basis  on which I have  assessed this complaint.
In essence, I am not convinced this replacement policy was clearly better  value for money than the 
original one even though the monthly premiums were slightly lower. It had £3,000 less cover, no 
waiver of premium benefit  or total disability  cover. So it is likely that the marginal  reduction in premium 
resulted primarily or entirely from these  reduced benefits  (as opposed to reduce  rates  across the 
industry). The advisor, in my view, had a clear responsibility to provide a detailed  comparative  
breakdown of the cost elements of each policy  to make clear whether this new policy was really 
cheaper on a like-for-like basis. Ive seen no evidence he did this. 
Overall, it looks as if the two plans offered broadly comparable cover in terms of specific illnesses and 
claimable criteria. As such, I dont believe this issue markedly  affects the argument for replacing the 
existing policy either way. However, I am not persuaded that the advisors  original letter  and his 
suitability letter were fully balanced when  stating  that this policy clearly better critical illness cover 
which would be of likely  use to Miss L. Also, the premium was reviewable under  both plans.
I also share Miss Ls concerns about the advisors claims  in several letters/documents.  I do think he 
implied that he could access the entire market  in order to benefit from the allegedly lower rates now 
being offered  insurance  providers; and Ive seen no evidence to support such  a claim. I dont accept 
that his letter made clear that he was only referring  to mortgages. His initial  letter  talking about  lower 
Ref: DRN25654144rates and accessing this overall  market may well have a key factor in Miss Ls decision  to agree to 
review her cover so I dont  accept  L & Gs view that this letter  is of no relevance  when assessing  the 
merits of this complaint.
In general, I believe the advisor overstated both the financial benefits of this policy (taking  account of 
the absence of premium  waiver provision and TPD), and of the allegedly superior critical cover.  
As such, I am satisfied that Miss L was not in a fully informed position  to decide whether to go ahead 
with this recommendation. In practice, she was saving  little more than £1 a month (taking  account of 
the waiver of premium  element) for a lower sum assured and without TPD.  If all this had been fully 
pointed out, I am not persuaded   on the balance  of probabilities  she would have agreed to this 
recommendation. Instead, I think she would more likely  than not have kept her original policy.
I therefore  currently intend  to instruct L & G to pay the difference between  the sum Miss L received 
last year and the amount she would  have  been  entitled  to under her original policy. It must then add 
8% simple interest per annum to this figure.
As it has already paid Miss L £250  in lieu of the advisors behaviour, I do not intend to instruct  it to pay 
any more though  I accept that this incident will have caused her significant  trouble  and upset.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Legal & General  Partnership Services Limited 
to pay compensation as outline above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2565414