K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains TW Financial Planning Ltd (TWFP)  caused delays when  handling his 
request to transfer  his three occupational  pension schemes (OPSs) into a different pension  
scheme. He says this led to a reduction  in their value. 
background
In late 2016 Mr T asked TWFP to help him review his pensions.  Mr T had several defined 
contribution (DC) pensions as well as deferred benefits from three OPSs.
TWFP met with Mr T and gathered information  about his objectives and personal 
circumstances. It also completed  an attitude  to risk questionnaire. Based on Mr Ts answers  
to the questionnaire,  TWFP said he had a moderately adventurous/adventurous attitude  to 
risk.
Mr T decided to switch his DC pensions into one personal pension with Old Mutual. 
TWFP completed this switch in late 2016. Mr T also asked  TWFP  to look into transferring his 
three OPSs  into the same Old Mutual  pension.
Mr T gave  TWFP permission to obtain  cash equivalent transfer value  (CETV) quotes  from 
his OPSs. The CETVs were received from the three  OPSs  and gave  valuations  of 
£176,330, £46,082 and £35,734. These  valuations  were guaranteed for three  months from 
the date of the CETVs.
In December 2016, once it had the CETVs, TWFP  asked Old Mutual to carry out a transfer 
value analysis (TVAS) and supply them with a report. 
It took until March 2017  for the TVAS  report to be produced. The TVAS report, amongst 
other things,  indicated the critical yield required  to match the benefits of the OPSs.  
TWFP emailed Mr T a copy of the report along  with their summary.  It concluded,  given 
Mr Ts attitude  to risk, he could  potentially  achieve the critical yield. But TWFP  werent 
regulated to advise  Mr T on his OPS transfers.  And so, he needed to be referred to a 
pension transfer  specialist for advice.
Mr T, by that point, had decide he wanted  to use his pension funds to buy a commercial 
property. And so, he wanted  to transfer his OPS benefits into a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) in order to do that.
TWFP approached the pension transfer  specialist who quoted fees of £2,450  for a 
recommendation report, £1,250 for undertaking the transfers and £1,000 for TWFPs  fees.
Mr T was unhappy with the level of fees quoted. He asked if he could transfer  his OPSs 
without formal advice  from the pension transfer specialist. Mr T also attempted to agree a 
reduction in fees by introducing a friend. And he approached  one of the OPSs  to see if it 
would increase its CETV to help pay towards  the fees. But ultimately,  Mr T was unable  to 
negotiate a reduction in fees and went ahead with getting advice from the pension transfer 
specialist. 
Due to the time that passed since the CETVs were first supplied,  the pension transfer 
specialist needed  new CETVs from all three of the OPSs. TWFP  were  sent new CETVs and 
forwarded them on to the pension transfer  specialist. The new CETVs were valued at 
Ref: DRN22271302£147,124, £33,057 and £29,573
In September  2017 the pension transfer specialist met with Mr T and produced  its own TVAS 
report. The report concluded It has been  identified that using the assumptions to produce 
pension income  benefits including a widow's pension, to match  those available  from the 
defined benefit  schemes,  investment returns of between 7.9%  to 14.5% are required. 
This highlights that financially you are more likely  to lose out by completing a transfer and on 
this basis only a transfer cannot be recommended.
Despite the recommendation not to transfer  the OPS  benefits, Mr T decided  to go ahead  
with the transfer.  The pension transfer  specialist recommended a SIPP provider which  could 
accommodate Mr Ts objective of buying a commercial property. 
Mr T completed the transfer of his OPSs  into the recommended SIPP which  had a set up 
charge of £250 and annual fees of £395.  In early 2018, Mr T put an offer on a commercial  
property. But the following  month, the offer fell through and he hadnt  found an alternative  
property. So, Mr T decided  to move his funds  out of the SIPP to attempt to get better returns.  
He was charged a fee of £300  for transferring his funds back  out of the SIPP.
Mr T contacted TWFP  as he was unhappy  with the service hed been given. He said TWFP 
should have made it clearer  the CETVs  were  only guaranteed  for a limited period and should  
have acted quicker to secure the first valuations. He said TWFP should have asked for an 
extension of the guaranteed period from the relevant  schemes.  Or recommended Mr T delay 
the transfer to see if the values increased again.  He was also unhappy with the fees hed 
paid to set up his SIPP and subsequently the fees he paid to transfer out of it. 
In its response TWFP  said it hadnt ever encountered a situation where a ceding  scheme  
would offer an extension to the guaranteed CETV period. Regarding the reduction  in value 
TWFP said it had no way of knowing if the new values would have been  higher or lower than 
before. It couldnt see how a recommendation to defer the transfer would likely result  in a 
higher value, given the reduction already seen. Furthermore, the advice Mr T was given was 
not to undertake the transfer. TWFP  also said in an earlier email  the SIPP had been 
recommended given Mr Ts objective to buy a commercial property and so it felt the advice 
was suitable. 
Mr T remained unhappy so brought his compliant to us. When our investigator looked  into 
the case, he said TWFP  hadnt clearly explained  the guaranteed  period Mr T had to accept 
the original CETVs. And it missed opportunities to clearly set out he transfer values. He also 
said the TVAS report  Old Mutual produced  wasnt necessary.  And so, Mr T could have been 
referred to the pension  transfer specialist earlier. Due to these errors our investigator 
suggested TWFP pay Mr T £400  compensation for the delays  and inconvenience  caused. 
TWFP accepted our investigators opinion. However, Mr T said TWFP should have made  it 
clear the Old Mutual report  was merely illustrative. And because it didnt, it made him believe 
the valuations  were still current. He said the delay in producing the Old Mutual report  may 
have added to the loss in value of his transfer.  And he felt £400 was small compensation for 
a poorly managed and executed transfer. Mr T also said,  as one of the funds had fallen  
below £30,000,  he wasnt required to get regulated advice on it and could have saved  on 
fees.
I sent Mr T and TWFP  my provisional  decision  on 14 December 2020. I explained that 
TWFP should have  told Mr T that one of his OPSs values had reduced below £30,000. But 
Ref: DRN22271303ultimately, I didnt think it made  a difference, as the costs Mr T incurred would have been the 
same. I also thought  it was likely the Old Mutual TVAS report would always have been 
requested, so it didnt  lead to a delay. Ive copied my findings from my provisional decision 
below. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said;
Ive focused on what I believe  to be the key outstanding issues that are materially  relevant to 
this complaint. For ease,  I broken this down  into several areas. 
Did TWFP cause  unnecessary delays  by requesting a TVAS from Old Mutual?
Our investigator said obtaining  the TVAS report from Old Mutual  wasnt necessary and led to 
avoidable delays.  But Im minded to say it was likely  to have been requested  anyway. 
Ill explain  why.
On 17 December 2016 Mr T said in his email to TWFP I'm interested to learn how you got 
on with the Critical Yield calculations on the three, final salary  scheme  elements of my 
pension. I am more convinced of the benefits  of a invested Old Mutual type pension over the 
guaranteed returns  of a final salary and if the numbers are right or only marginal would love 
to bring these into the same fund.
I think this is important because it shows Mr T hadnt  made up his mind to transfer  his OPS 
benefits into the personal pension. He wanted to know  if the numbers are right. So, TWFP 
then had a choice, it could ask Old Mutual  to provide  a TVAS  report,  at no cost to Mr T. Or it 
could have involved the pension transfer  specialist at that point. However,  the pension 
transfer specialist  charged a fee for their advice and recommendations. And it became clear 
later that Mr T would have  avoided  paying fees if he didnt have to. 
On receipt of the TVAS report TWFP forwarded it on to Mr T. TWFP also emailed Mr T 
saying On page 5 of The Pension Transfer Analysis  reports  it provides the Critical Yields,  
which is the annual  growth required in order to match the benefits given up from the main  
scheme, of which we feel potentially could be achieved given your attitude to investment risk 
of Moderately  Adventurous/Adventurous.  Unfortunately, due to the nature of the pension  
arrangement being  a Final Salary arrangement, we are not authorised to carry out the full 
analysis and recommendation. We do however, have a professional  relationship with a 
Specialist Pension  Financial Adviser, who we have worked closely  with for a few of our 
clients. If you wish to proceed  we could forward the information we have collated and ask 
them to carry out the full analysis and recommendation.  
As Ive said before, its likely Mr T hadnt made up his mind whether to transfer his OPSs  
when the report  was requested. Had the critical yield indicated a return which was 
unachievable due to Mr Ts attitude  to risk, I think TWFP would  have explained that to Mr T 
and were unlikely  to recommend get he get further  analysis and recommendations from a 
pension transfer  specialist. It was only because TWFP felt the critical yield was achievable it 
recommended Mr T move on to the next stage in the process  and get further advice. 
I find it unlikely, given  a choice, Mr T would have been willing to pay the pension  transfer  
specialist fees.  Especially if he hadnt  first had an indication whether it was going  to be 
beneficial to transfers his OPS benefits.  Therefore, I dont think TWFP caused an 
Ref: DRN22271304unnecessary delay by requesting a TVAS  from Old Mutual. And so, I wont ask TWFP to 
compensate Mr T for the delay in referring Mr T to the pension  transfer specialist.
Did TWFP cause  delays leading to a reduction in the CETVs?
TWFP requested the TVAS report from Old Mutual in December 2017, when the CETVs 
were still within their guaranteed period. TWFP  forewarned Mr T the TVAS report  was likely 
to take some  time due to a backlog  of requests with Old Mutual.  I dont think its likely TWFP 
could have foreseen that the TVAS report wouldnt be completed until March 2017.  And so, 
the CETVs used would be long expired. 
Mr T says TWFP made him believe the CETVs  were  still available and current. But the 
TVAS report was sent to Mr T in March 2017. And clearly stated for each of his OPSs  
The transfer  value quoted by the Existing  Scheme is out of date and will need to be 
recalculated if a transfer of benefits  proceeds.  
At least  one of the original CETVs was also addressed to Mr Ts home address and said, 
A written, valid application to proceed  with the transfer,  including  the appropriate  
documentation must be received within the three-month guarantee period. So, I think  Mr T 
ought to have been aware new CETVs would be required before a transfer could be made. 
And he was likely to know  that there was a chance the values would change.
Even if I accepted that TWFP should have referred  Mr T to the pension transfer specialist in 
December 2016,  I think its unlikely Mr T would have been able to transfer his OPSs  before 
the first guaranteed period expired. I say this because even when Mr T was referred  to the 
pension transfer  specialist in April 2017, it still took several months before his OPS  benefits 
were transferred. So, its unlikely Mr T was ever going to be able to secure the original 
CETVs of his OPSs.   
In addition to this, when Mr T first requested analysis of his OPS benefits it was with a mind 
to transfer them into the personal pension he already held. But between requesting the 
TVAS report and introducing Mr T to the pension transfer specialist, Mr T changed his mind. 
His objectives for his pension  changed and he decided he wanted  to buy a commercial 
property with his pension funds. So, part of the reason of needing  a second TVAS report 
(as well as the original  CETVs having expired)  was because Mr T had changed his mind. 
There were some further delays throughout the process as well, for example Old Mutual 
needed further information from the OPSs before it could complete its TVAS. And Mr T tried 
to negotiate the pension  transfers specialists fees and approached his OPS to help. But I 
dont think TWFP were responsible for any of these delays and I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to suggest TWFPs actions delayed Mr T in transferring his OPS  benefits. 
Mr T said TWFP didnt advise him to pause or delay at any point in order  to try and achieve 
a better  CETV.  But in effect, that was the advice he was given. The pension transfer 
specialist advised  Mr T the transfer wasnt in his best interests at the time. TWFP werent  
authorised to advise  Mr T on transferring his OPS benefits. And so, I wouldnt expect them  to 
give advice over and above what the pension transfer specialist had given. 
Should TWFP pay Mr Ts SIPP fees?
Ultimately it was recommended  Mr T didnt transfer  his OPS benefits. However, Mr T 
decided to transfer his benefits into a SIPP recommended by the pension  transfer  specialist.
Ref: DRN22271305Mr T attempted  to buy a commercial property which fell through.  So, Mr T then decided to 
transfer his funds out of the SIPP to see better  returns  whilst  he decided  what to do next. 
This meant Mr T had to pay both initial fees for opening the SIPP  as well as fees to transfer 
his funds out. 
But the recommendation for the SIPP (and its associated fees)  didnt come  from TWFP,  it 
was the pension transfer specialist recommendation. And in any case,  the additional fees 
Mr Ts faced  was because he was unable to buy the commercial property he had planned  to. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to hold TWFP responsible  for the SIPP  fees Mr T faced. 
Could Mr T have transferred one of his OPSs without advice from the pension transfer 
specialist?
Its clear from Mr Ts email in April 2017 he had made up his mind to transfer  his OPS 
benefits. But TWFP were  right to say, because  of the values involved,  there was a 
requirement for Mr T to obtain advice from a regulated advisor  in this case  the pension  
transfer specialist.  I can see from the communications at the time there was discussion over 
the fees proposed by the pension transfer  specialist.  And this ultimately led to a delay in the 
transfer progressing.  But I cant hold TWFP responsible for this delay and it was a regulatory  
requirement to get the advice. 
In August  2017  TWFP  were sent a renewed CETV for the smallest of Mr Ts OPSs.  And the 
CETV had fallen below  £30,000. That meant  Mr T wasnt required to get regulated financial 
advice on that scheme  before transferring his benefits. Mr T says he should have been told 
this, as it may have  led to a reduction  in fees from the pension  transfer  specialist. And I think 
Mr T has a point.  The CETV was sent to TWFP before they forwarded it on to the pension 
transfer specialist.  So, Mr T wouldnt have been aware of the drop in value. I think TWFP 
should have told Mr T he was no longer required to get regulated  advice on it. And given him 
the choice on how to proceed.
My role isnt to punish a business when  its made  an error. Its to put customers  back  into the 
position they would have  been if the correct  action had been taken. Mr T still needed  to get 
regulated advice on the other two OPSs.  Weve contacted the pension transfer specialist 
who have confirmed the fee it charged Mr T was on a fixed cost per client basis.  And so, the 
cost would have  remained the same whether it analysed two of Mr Ts OPSs or three. 
Even if the value of the CETV was below £30,000,  it was still a good  idea to get advice on 
transferring it. So, I think its likely  given  the choice, Mr T would have still asked the pension 
specialist to advise  on all three OPSs, as it wouldnt  have come  at an additional cost.  
Overall, I think TWFP could have done  better in some areas of its service to Mr T. But I dont 
think their errors made a material difference to the outcome of this case. And so, Im minded 
to not uphold this complaint. 
the responses to my provisional  decision
Both Mr T and TWFP  let us know that theyd received my provision decision.  And neither 
side had any further comments or submissions  to make. So, the case  has been  passed back 
to me to reach a final decision.
Ref: DRN22271306my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
Neither side have  provided  me with any further comments or submissions. That means I 
have no reason to depart  from the findings Ive already  reached  in this case. So, my decision 
remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  findings, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr T to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 18 January 2021.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2227130