K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  which 
Mr and Mrs K say Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold to them.
background
Our adjudicator said this complaint shouldnt  be upheld. But Mr and Mrs K disagreed and the 
complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Mr and Mrs K took out a joint mortgage in late 2002 and were sold MPPI at the same time in 
respect on Mr K only. Mrs K wasnt covered by the MPPI. 
did they agree to MPPI?
Ive looked very carefully at what Mr and Mrs K have to say about  their reasons for 
complaining and I of course sympathise that these events were some  considerable time ago. 
However Im afraid I can see very little evidence  to suggest there was anything wrong with 
the MPPI  sale.
The MPPI in question was offered free for an initial 12 month period and in my view, there is 
strong and verifiable evidence that Mr and Mrs K discussed these matters during  their 
mortgage interview. Mr K himself acknowledges this and I can see they signed a declaration  
on their mortgage application to agree to the MPPI policy being set up. 
Further to this I also see they decided the MPPI  cover should be set up specifically for Mr K 
and they specified what  and for how much   he would be covered for.
So overall, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs K engaged in this sale and agreed to taking out the 
MPPI. I think they met with Nationwide to discuss  their mortgage requirements and the MPPI 
featured in that discussion. 
Following the initial  incentive period of 12 months I can see evidence  that Mr and Mrs K 
were corresponded with and I think it would  have been obvious  to them that they would need 
to begin paying the monthly premiums.  Mr K accepts they received a renewal  notice and so 
Im afraid I cant fault Nationwide in this because it appears to have done what  it ought to 
have i.e. notified them of the need  to start paying and telling them how much this would be.
were Mr and Mrs K given enough  information?
I should also add that this wasnt  an advised sale. This means  Nationwides responsibility 
was limited to providing Mr and Mrs K with enough information with which to make  their own 
informed choice. Nationwide didnt have an ongoing  responsibility to make sure the MPPI 
was something that continued to be wanted  by Mr and Mrs K each year and that it suited 
their needs.
Ref: DRN24885742Mr K says that although he remembers the first annual renewal notice  for the MPPI,  he 
doesnt remember getting subsequent notices. But I see the policy  was terminated by them 
in late 2004. So clearly, no such notices were due.
As Ive already  said, I think  the MPPI was discussed with Mr and Mrs K. I also note that it 
was mentioned on their Mortgage Offer, an important  document  I feel they would have 
wanted to read carefully. In fact, the disclosure about the cover  and how much it was going 
to eventually cost,  seems to me to be comprehensive and detailed in this case.  Overall  I 
think theres solid evidence Mr and Mrs K had enough information on which  to make an 
informed decision.
Obviously its possible more could  have been  done  to ease their understanding.  But this 
doesnt affect what I think. This is because the evidence is clear that Mr and Mrs K wanted  
MPPI. Mr K also appears to have been eligible  for the cover  and not caught by any of the 
major exclusions  we tend to see in these policies. The cost also seems affordable for them 
and consistent  with other policies Ive seen from that time. In the event of a successful claim, 
the policy would pay out a monthly  benefit for up to two years.
Mr and Mrs K said they already enjoyed protection from sickness  through  Mr Ks work and 
they imply that for this reason they didnt  need this type of cover. But as Ive said,  this was a 
non-advised sale and the decision about  MPPI was for Mr and Mrs K to make.  I also think Mr 
and Mrs Ks mortgage would have been a significant  and long-term  financial commitment  for 
them. The consequences of not being able to make the repayments could have had serious 
consequences, so I can certainly see how the policy was of use to them.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs K, but I think there is strong and persuasive evidence 
they agreed to the cover  and that it was of use in their situation. It wasnt  mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and I dont direct 
Nationwide Building  Society to do anything to put matters right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 October  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2488574