K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC, Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time (Lloyds), mis-sold him 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr W bought the PPI at a meeting in 2003  at the same time as taking a mortgage. Mostly the 
mortgage repaid  an existing  mortgage but a third was for home improvements. The PPI was 
cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment, subject to its exclusions and limitations. For 
a successful claim it offered to pay each month for up to twelve  months Mr Ws mortgage  
payment (around  £190 at the time), his home  insurance premium if arranged  through  Lloyds 
and £3 for every £1000  of the advance amount (£60).  The PPI cost around £10 per month 
and was cancelled  after around nine months, so Mr W paid around £100 in total for the PPI.
According to his mortgage application form, Mr W was employed as a social  worker and had 
been there a little under three years at the time. Hes told us he had sick pay or redundancy 
pay worth  at least 12 months pay, with twelve months full sick pay as well as redundancy 
pay and death  in service.  Hes also told us he didnt have anything  else,  like savings, with 
which to pay his mortgage if he couldnt work. From what  Mr W has told us, he was in good 
health at the time of the sale. Given his occupation and employer, I think it unlikely Mr Ws 
sickness or redundancy pay was worth 12 months full pay. I think it more likely his sick pay 
was at most  six months  full pay followed by six months half pay.
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show the mortgage account closed in 2006.  Mr Ws 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr Ws 
representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr W wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Ws representatives  believe  there  to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Mr W about  
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr W and the impact they would 
have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN23217592The information Mr W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about s.140 of 
that Act and the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA about  the handling of complaints  about 
the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
Ref: DRN23217593The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance  on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone  Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ws case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
Ref: DRN23217594did Mr W know he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Mr Ws mortgage application had a box to 
tick if he wished to apply  for the PPI. On Mr Ws form this box was ticked, and there was a 
box he couldve ticked instead if he didnt wish to take the PPI. Mr W also signed  a separate 
PPI application  form to take the cover. Taking everything into account, I think  it likely Mr W 
knew the PPI was separate from the mortgage  and something he had a choice about taking.
Mr W has said Lloyds  made him feel he had a better chance of getting the loan if he took the 
PPI. Ive thought  about this carefully.  I havent seen anything else to make me think  Lloyds 
misled Mr W into thinking  that choosing to take the PPI would help him get the loan. Ive also 
taken into account  that Mr W has said he took the PPI because he was rushed or pressured 
by Lloyds. I havent anything else that makes me think Lloyds pressured Mr W into choosing  
to take the cover or rushed him into making that choice. Bearing  in mind what  I have, what 
Mr W has said isnt, on balance, enough  on its own to make me think Lloyds pressured him 
into the PPI or didnt  let him make his own choice. Taking everything into account, I think  its 
more likely Mr W knew the policy was optional and agreed to take it without  undue  pressure.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mr W agree that advice was provided during this sale. This means Lloyds 
had to advise  Mr W with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was 
appropriate or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
Lloyds took some steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable  recommendation for 
Mr W. Lloyds  had some information about Mr Ws financial circumstances as part of the 
mortgage application  for example his employment  situation, income  and length of service. 
But I dont think Lloyds  did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. For example, Ive nothing 
to show that Lloyds asked Mr W about his work sickness or redundancy benefits.
Also, although the declaration signed by Mr W on the PPI application asked him to confirm  
he wasnt aware of impending unemployment  or hospitalisation or receiving treatment for 
conditions of a persistent  or recurring nature, theres no specific  evidence to make me think 
Lloyds established  that all this applied to Mr W before giving him the application form to sign.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr W given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr W, I do think  its more likely than not the policy  was ultimately suitable for him. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr W had a need for the policy - his income wouldve fallen were he not working  for an 
extended time, even  allowing for his work sick pay or redundancy pay. It also seems 
likely his finances wouldve been put under strain in that situation,  bearing in mind  he 
didnt have savings  to fall back on and has said he was financially stretched. So the 
policy benefit wouldve helped him if he were unable to work for an extended period.
Ref: DRN23217595-Mr W met the eligibility criteria for the policy and although he says he was financially 
stretched at the time,  Ive seen  nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI 
wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr W. There was 
nothing about  his employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult  for him to 
claim. And he hasnt  told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that couldve 
affected his ability  to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover  for mental 
health or back problems.
-There were  limits  to the cover  provided  by the policy (including: the any similar gainful  
occupation condition,  the fact no benefit was payable for the first 60 days  of disability or 
unemployment and the fact the PPI would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months 
for each claim). But the PPI still provided valuable  cover  given Mr Ws circumstances, 
the fact the PPI protected  mortgage repayments relating to his home, the potential  
consequences should he be unable to make  the payments on loans secured against his 
house and the loss of income  hed suffer  if due to disability or unemployment he were  
unable to work for an extended time.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to him and make an informed  decision about whether  to follow  that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr W was given a broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that it would protect his payments if he were  unable to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr W would have taken the policy 
without any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr W agreed  to take the policy. Overall, having considered the parties  
representations about what happened, while Im satisfied the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr W, Im not persuaded Lloyds did enough to present  information 
about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair and reasonable to him. Im not 
persuaded Lloyds gave  Mr W all the information he needed about  the policy to make  an 
informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN23217596In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Ws representative considers to be poor value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have  gone  further  and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr W? To what extent  did Mr W suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Lloyds didnt do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy to Mr W. So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr W suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr W would have still 
taken the policy,  had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr W, I have found the policy was ultimately suitable 
for him. In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether or not Mr W has suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr W would  have acted differently or whether he would have  taken the policy in 
any event. Mr W says he wouldnt have taken it and believes I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr W had some interest in taking PPI. By this I mean  
when Lloyds advised him there was a suitable product he could  buy that would protect  his 
mortgage payments  in the event he were  unable to work because  of accident, sickness or 
unemployment, he concluded he wanted that product. But he made  that decision based on 
incomplete information, meaning  what he thought he was getting  is not exactly what he got. 
Ref: DRN23217597As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
It doesnt appear Lloyds  told Mr W the exact  premium at the point he applied  for the policy. 
But I consider it more likely than not he knew he would have to pay something for the PPI 
and was aware of the approximate cost. If the PPI cost when he came to pay it had been 
significantly at odds  with his expectations at the sale,  its possible he mightve raised  this 
with Lloyds or reconsidered  his decision. Overall,  Im not persuaded Mr W would have found 
the cost unacceptable if he had been given the exact figure during the meeting in which he 
agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr W would get back if he 
made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely his expectations about  what the policy  would 
pay (an amount sufficient  to meet his mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what 
the policy actually  did  if anything it is more likely than not the policy actually paid more in 
the event of a claim than he would have expected, as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims for disability due to any pre-existing medical condition  (any 
health issue Mr W knew or ought to have  known about at the policy start or for which  in 
the 12 months before the policy start hed seen,  arranged  to see or received treatment 
from a doctor) occurring  or re-occurring during the first 24 months of cover;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  if Mr W wasnt  a 
permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr W not only be unable  to do 
his own job but also be unable to do any similar job the insurer thought  he was or might  
reasonably become  qualified for in view of his training, education  and ability;  and
No benefit  was payable for the first 60 days of disability or unemployment,  and the policy 
protected payments for up to 12 months rather than the remaining term of the mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr W pause for thought   and may well have caused him to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking the policy.
But, the evidence  about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr W was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Ive also not seen any evidence to suggest  Mr W would 
have been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr W didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I think he still had some good 
reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr W would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Ref: DRN23217598If Mr W had known he could only claim for disability if he were  not only unable  to do his own 
job but also unable  to do any similar job the insurer thought he was or might reasonably 
become qualified for in view of his training, education and ability, it might  have  played  into 
his thinking about what to do. And I accept it may have given him pause for thought   
although its possible he may not have  been  overly concerned  given that if he were  unable 
(through disability) to carry  on his own occupation  the chances  he would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr W the first 60 days of any disability or unemployment wouldnt 
be covered  and may not have  told him any claim would be limited  to a 12 month period. All 
this may have differed from what Mr W expected and mightve  hoped  for. But given his 
circumstances and the loss of income he could suffer if he were  made  redundant or too sick 
to work for an extended time, I consider  it likely Mr W would still have  thought a policy that 
after 60 days  paid his mortgage payments (and other costs) for up to 12 months, would be of 
benefit to him and would  help him manage the consequences if he couldnt  work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed multiple  claims to be made and 
could help reduce Mr Ws outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time, helping  to make  it less 
likely his home would be put at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr W would still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for him, sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if he were  made redundant, or unable to work through accident  or sickness 
for an extended time. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr W would 
have taken the policy in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr W would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as a result of the sale was the same position he would have  been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred.
Mr W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Ref: DRN23217599Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W in the position he would have  been  in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken the policy,  I am 
satisfied that, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that Mr W would still have taken 
the PPI had he been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy he was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude Lloyds should pay him compensation, as that would put him in a better position 
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr W thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr W, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2003 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ws representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr W and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr W in a better position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2321759