K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains about Santander  UK Plc (Santander) regarding  fees charged  on his 
account and how it dealt with him after he fell into financial difficulties. He wants Santander
to refund all charges and interest.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my provisional findings, in a provisional 
decision issued in December 2018.  A copy of that decision  is attached to this. 
In that provisional  decision, I explained  why I thought  the complaint should be upheld and 
set out a breakdown of what debt I thought Mr K should  remain  responsible for. I explained 
that I thought £425.56 of the outstanding  debt was validly due from Mr K and that Santander 
should settle the remainder of the debt. 
Santander has replied  to my provisional  decision accepting my findings. 
Mr K has sent in some further comments, disagreeing with my view.  
Mr K made a number  of points, which I summarise below:
1.Mr K says that he re-sent his March  2014 letter to Santander numerous times after 
March 2014 and that it has yet to receive a reply;
2.Mr K says that not all of the charges on his account for the years going  back  to 2008  
were refunded to him in 2013;
3.In my provisional decision I said that Mr K had left some direct debits in place after 
moving his income to another  account. Mr K has said that this was not the case  and 
that he cancelled  all direct debits at the same time as moving his income elsewhere; 
4.
Mr K explains that the card payment which took him over his limit was not made by 
him but by a third party who used the card by mistake on Mr Ks behalf. He feels  that 
Santander should not have authorised  the payment since  it then incurred charges;
5.Mr K explains that the cheque which  was presented for payment twice  was issued by 
him in January, but not presented by the receiver until April. He feels that this should 
not have been presented again but returned to the drawer;
6.Mr K says that Santander  has been  aware of his difficulties since much  earlier  than 
2014, and he thinks that Santander  should have been aware that he was in financial 
difficulties because  he received an income from the DWP;
7.Mr K says that Santander  have never  shown  a duty of care or empathy towards him. 
He says that out of the blue he received  the debt recovery  letters  after three years 
and that he has a debt marker against  him which makes things more  difficult;  and
8.Mr K queries why only statements for the period 2012-2014 were provided  to the 
ombudsman.
Mr K added that he did not think he had been dealt with fairly or reasonably  by Santander. 
Ref: DRN21990812my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The arguments put forward by Mr K do not substantially change my view and I address 
these in turn below:
1.Mr K has said that his letter from March 2014 remains  unanswered despite him 
having re-sent it numerous times. He is unable to find his proof of delivery for it and 
Santander has said that it did not receive  that letter. I appreciate  Mr Ks mistrust that 
the letter was not received, but I have not seen  evidence that it was received. I have 
accepted that Mr K alerted  Santander to his difficulties earlier  than that letter,  so 
should have been  treating him positively and sympathetically in any event.  
2.Mr K has pointed  out that charges  refunded to him in 2013 did not reflect all charges 
that he had incurred since 2008. I accept  this but it does not affect my view. In my 
provisional decision I stated that charges had been refunded on four occasions 
through 2013. I did not suggest that all charges incurred had been refunded. 
3.Mr K has corrected  my provisional  decision about his cancelling  direct  debits. His last 
regular income into the account was 3 March  2014 and direct  debits left his account  
on 4 March 2014 and 6 March  2014.  I accept that these stopped at that point.
4.Mr K has set out how his card came to be used  in error. I accept his account, and 
sympathise with the circumstances. He has said that he thinks  that Santander should 
not have authorised the transaction but I do not criticise Santander for allowing the 
payment. Businesses are entitled to decide  whether to authorise a transaction in 
excess of an account limits and so it is the responsibility of card holders to ensure 
that transactions are not attempted unless there  are sufficient funds available.  
5.Similarly, Mr K has described the circumstances  of the cheque  presentation. I 
understand that the cheque was not deliberately presented by Mr K when there were 
insufficient fund but, as above,  I think it was his responsibility to ensure it was not 
presented, or that there were sufficient funds, rather than for Santander to return it. 
6.Mr K has alluded  to suffering financial difficulties much earlier than 2014. These were 
not raised in his initial complaint and so have not been  put to the business. If Mr K 
wishes to complain  about Santanders treatment  of him and his accounts  prior to the 
end of 2013 he will have  to address this first with the business  and then potentially  
refer that complaint  to us later. I should  note though, that I do not think  that it 
necessarily follows that because someone is in receipt of a state  benefit  then they 
must be in financial difficulties. I understand that Mr K was managing  his account well 
up until January 2014.  Whether he should have  been treated as someone  in financial 
difficulties will depend on his circumstances and what Santander  knew  about them 
7.Mr K has said that Santander  did not show a duty of care towards him and that he 
received notification of his debt out of the blue. Santander was only obliged to act 
positively and sympathetically once aware  of Mr Ks difficulties. Mr K has shown that 
he was aware of his overdraft balance and limit at the time and that he did not repay 
the balance. Without  any action to repay  the overdraft Santander would be likely to 
Ref: DRN21990813pursue recovery of the debt and so I do not agree that the debt recovery was out of 
the blue. If any default  was registered Santander would have needed  to give Mr K 
warning of this. If it did not, it is open to Mr K to raise a complaint with Santander 
about that.
8.Mr K has asked  why I have not reviewed all statements and charges on his account 
since it was opened. Mr Ks complaint to the business focussed on the period  since 
he encountered  financial difficulties in late 2013 and so Santander provided 
statements for that period. I see that in his 2014  letter to Santander Mr K asked for all 
charges in the previous  six years  to be refunded but Santander has said it did not 
receive that letter and consequently did not reply. Charges  prior to 2014 were  
therefore not considered within this complaint. I will ask Santander to address that 
point directly to Mr K. 
The submissions made by Mr K do not affect  my view on the issues  covered by my 
provisional decision and so I adopt my provisional decision as my final decision on these 
issues. I realise that this will be disappointing to Mr K but I hope I have explained my 
reasons fully. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2199081