K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that MBNA Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy.
background
Mr P took out a credit card with MBNA  in 1998.  At the same  time he bought a PPI policy  
which wouldve helped cover his repayments on the card for up to 12 months at a time if he 
couldnt work due to accident, sickness or unemployment.
Mr P says the PPI wasnt explained to him properly and that if hed understood he wouldnt 
have bought it.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr Ps complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Mr P disagrees, so his 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ps 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mr P agrees  that he ticked a box to take the PPI and that he knew he had a choice about it. 
And this is reflected in the copy  of the application  form MBNA has provided.  However,  Mr P 
says he didnt understand the policy and wouldnt have taken it if hed had a better 
explanation.
MBNA didnt  give Mr P a personal recommendation to buy the policy,  so it didnt have to 
make sure it was right for him. But it did need to give Mr P all the information he needed so 
he could make an informed decision.
After the adjudicator sent Mr P their initial view on his case  Mr P said that he believed  he did 
get advice from MBNA.  He says he must have spoken to someone before he completed the 
form as he wouldnt have  ticked  the box without discussing  it or being told it was in his best 
interests. 
MBNA dont  have a record of such a call with Mr P. But I dont think  it makes  a difference in 
this case even if Mr P was advised to take the policy. I think Mr P wouldve taken the policy  
even if had been given all the information, and if the policy was recommended  to him I think  
it was a suitable recommendation. I say this because:
Mr P was eligible  for the policy and wouldnt have  been affected by any terms which  
mightve made it more  difficult for him to make a successful  claim, such as those 
related to existing  medical conditions or his employment circumstances;
Mr P had a small amount of contractual sick pay available to him. But the policy  
wouldve paid out in addition to this and potentially  for considerably  longer;
Ref: DRN23927962Mr P had only been working for his employer for a few months  at the time of sale, so 
he wouldnt have been entitled to any statutory redundancy pay. The policy wouldve 
paid out for up to a year at a time,  so I think it offered Mr P a useful benefit;
Mr P says that he was living at home  with his parents at the time and they wouldve 
paid off any credit card debt if needed. I dont doubt that Mr Ps parents wouldve 
wanted to help if they could but other people[s circumstances can change  too and 
the PPI wouldve meant he didnt have to rely on them;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  around 
the same  time. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest the PPI was unaffordable 
for Mr P.
Mr P points out some errors on the application form which he says shows that he didnt 
understand what he was completing. Ive thought carefully about  this. I appreciate that Mr P 
may not have understood everything about  the PPI  indeed, I dont think  MBNA gave him 
all the information  he needed. But that doesnt mean I should automatically uphold  Mr Ps 
complaint. I have to think about what Mr P wouldve done had he been given all the right 
information and understood what it meant  for him. And Ive explained why I think hed have 
still taken the policy  in these circumstances.
So, I dont think Mr P lost out as a result of anything  MBNA did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint for the reasons Ive explained. It follows that MBNA 
Limited doesnt have  to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2392796