K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mr S says Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI.
Mr S also says Barclays is at fault for poor practice, in that instead of cancelling the policy  
when he asked it to, Barclays shouldve made  him aware the policy  offered  help in situations 
like redundancy.  Mr S has said Barclays failed to offer him the assistance it should  have 
when he was made redundant, which affected him for years and couldve been avoided.
background
I sent Mr S and Barclays a provisional  decision to explain why I didnt think the policy  was 
mis-sold and why I didnt  think Barclays was to blame for the PPI being cancelled.  I also said 
I intended to decide that Barclays  should pay Mr S any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  which I understood it has paid. I explained 
also why I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint about the cancellation of the policy  and 
Barclays actions at that time when Mr S was made redundant.
I said Id consider anything else Mr S and Barclays wanted to give me  so long as I 
received it by 7 January 2019. Mr S has replied with further points and information. Barclays  
has replied saying it doesnt have anything else to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. And Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ss complaint 
about poor practice. Ill explain  why.
Mr S applied for his card online.  Based on what we know  of the sales  process at the time, he 
wouldve been asked  whether he wanted PPI during this application. And PPI wouldve only 
been added  to his account  if hed answered that he wanted it. So I think  Barclays  made clear 
that Mr S didnt have  to take the PPI. And, taking into account what he and Barclays have 
said about this, I think  he chose to take the PPI when he applied for his card online.
Barclays says it doesnt have a record of speaking  to Mr S before he applied  online. Mr S 
has told us he did ring. He says he took the credit card to make  contactless payments for 
transport, so he rang to ask about  this. He says Barclays told him in the call to apply online 
and take PPI to make  himself a safer customer and improve his chances of getting the card.
But, given the time that has passed since Mr Ss application, what Mr S has said isnt on its 
own enough to persuade  me that Barclays misled him on the phone  into taking PPI. And I 
dont have anything  else to make me think this.
Mr S has said that although  the events being considered here happened some time ago, 
considerably less time had passed  when  he first complained about them - because he first 
complained some years before his complaint  came  to this service. But even if what  Mr S is 
saying is something  he has been  saying from a date closer to the sale, this doesnt change  
Ref: DRN25012872my view. I still havent seen enough to persuade me that this call took place and misled Mr S 
in the way that he says it did.
Mr S has told us he first made his complaint through a third party  some  years earlier.  He 
says he then heard that PPI was for unemployment,  which for him backed-up his claims 
further so he took the complaint up himself and got it re-opened.  He has referred to earlier 
records being available for this complaint  like recordings of calls he made to Barclays  after 
Barclays had rejected his complaint. But these would still be records and comments  from 
after the events  in question  not records from the time of the sale (or the later cancellation). 
So Im not persuaded that I need these to decide  this point about Mr Ss application in 
particular or to decide the complaint as a whole  fairly and reasonably. Mr S has been free to 
make or remake any arguments from that earlier time that he thinks  are relevant here and 
Ive considered all the points  that he has made to us.
So I conclude that Mr S chose to take the PPI. But I dont think Barclays recommended  the 
PPI to Mr S as being right for his own particular circumstances. So Barclays  didnt have to 
check the PPI was right for Mr S. But Barclays did have to make sure Mr S got the 
information he needed to decide whether  the PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected  by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the cover   so it looks like it wouldve been useful for him 
if something went wrong. For a successful  sickness or unemployment claim, the PPI would 
pay out on top of Mr Ss work sick pay or redundancy benefits  and for up to a year. I think  
thats longer than Mr Ss work sick pay or redundancy pay was likely to last  given  that hes 
told us he hadnt  been with his employer for long when  he took out the policy. 
Also, with Mr S working full time, it looks like the PPI was affordable insurance when he took 
it. And if he made  a successful claim he wouldnt be as reliant  on the help of others  if he lost 
his job or was too sick to work.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have 
changed Mr Ss decision  to take the cover.
Mr S has said: at the time I cancelled it, I was made  / being  made  redundant. This was 
meant to help me out in situations like this but I thought  that if I cancelled  it I would save 
money so I obviously didn't know what it was for and how it could help. But I dont think  this 
means Barclays didnt  give Mr S information  about the unemployment cover  at the start. 
Buying insurance  is often  not very memorable. In this case  the insurance was also,  at best,  
secondary to Mr Ss main  aim, which was to take out the credit  card.  Also it would  have 
made sense  for Barclays to refer to the unemployment cover when offering the PPI for sale  
it was one of the policys  main  benefits.  
The sample screenshots Barclays has sent us refer to unemployment  cover. I dont know if 
these are exactly like what  Mr S saw during his application. Nor do I have  details of all the 
information Mr S saw or was sent about the PPI at the time he took it or after it was set up. 
But bearing in mind what Ive already said above about  this, and having taken into account  
what Mr S has said to us about  it, Im not persuaded that Barclays  failed at the start to give 
Mr S information to inform  him that the policy he was agreeing  to take out was a policy that 
included unemployment  cover as one of its benefits   so I dont think Barclays  was at fault 
for Mr S not realising later that the PPI had unemployment cover.
Ref: DRN25012873Mr S cancelled his policy  to save money  when he was aware he was going to be made 
redundant. The PPI was cancelled around 21 days before the date on which his redundancy 
took effect. Mr S and Barclays  agree this was done during a phone  call. At that time Barclays  
entered a reason code  on its system which it says means: Premium too high . Apart from 
this code, Ive no other  evidence from the time that throws light on the calls exact content.
If Mr S had kept his policy in force at that time, he mightve been able to claim on the policy 
for unemployment and have  part of his card balance paid off each month until he returned to 
employment. I dont  know whether  Mr S was in fact out of work for long enough to be able to 
make a claim like that or not  or how many months  payments he mightve been able to 
claim for. So, based on what I have, I cant say whether Mr Ss decision to cancel the policy  
when he did saved him money  or cost him money. But in case it cost him money, Ive 
considered whether the evidence I have  suggests that Barclays was to blame.
Mr S says that when  he called to cancel the policy he told Barclays  that he was being made 
redundant. Barclays says it wouldve told Mr S how to claim if hed told Barclays this. The 
policy was cancelled rather than a claim being  made. So either  Mr S didnt tell Barclays  of 
his redundancy  or Barclays failed to tell him that he could claim or it told him he could claim 
and he decided not to. But for either  of these last two possibilities to be relevant, Id need to 
first be satisfied  that Mr S did most  likely tell Barclays  that he was being made redundant.
In my view the evidence I have supports the conclusion  that Mr S called to cancel the PPI to 
save money, and that his reason for wanting  to save money  was his imminent  redundancy. 
But other than Mr Ss recollections, I dont have evidence that suggests directly  that Mr S 
told Barclays his reason for wanting to save money  was his forthcoming  redundancy. 
I dont overlook that Barclays noted  the reason  code  premium too high. Mr S firmly  believes 
that theres no sort of conversation that couldve resulted in the cancellation of the policy  and 
the entering of that code without Mr S having mentioned his redundancy. But I think it was 
perfectly possible for Mr S to ask to end the policy and express a desire to save  on the 
premium costs without going on to explain  that his reason for wanting to save  was that he 
was going to be made redundant.
So I dont  think a call to cancel the policy, the premium too high code and Mr S being  
motivated by his redundancy must, together or separately, mean that Mr S must have told 
Barclays of his forthcoming redundancy during the call. Ive also carefully  considered 
whether the evidence I have supports the conclusion that it is more likely  that Mr S did rather 
than didnt tell Barclays of his redundancy during the call. In my view the evidence doesnt 
sufficiently support that conclusion. I acknowledge that Mr S mightve  mentioned his 
redundancy. But, as noted above,  I think its also possible  he didnt. I dont think I can fairly 
conclude that it is more likely that he did mention it, so I dont conclude that this is what  
happened. I say this after careful consideration of all Mr S has said about this, and his 
strength of feeling  in saying it.
So I dont  think it would  be fair to say Barclays was wrong if it didnt point out the redundancy 
cover to Mr S when he called to cancel the policy. Mr S has said: I was made redundant 
which Barclays knew and not once did they say you have PPI to help  But  I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that Barclays was aware of Mr Ss redundancy in the period during 
which he cancelled the policy  or in period that followed shortly after that.
In saying this Ive taken into account  that Mr S has said he was made redundant and had 
money issues that Barclays knew about. Set up a payment plan with them. But any money 
Ref: DRN25012874issues that Mr S mightve had as a result  of his redundancy wouldnt have come  about until 
his redundancy  took effect. And that wasnt  until after the date on which  Barclays  cancelled 
the policy. Also the payment plan wasnt until years  later, so Im not persuaded its relevant 
to this complaint.
Immediately after his redundancy Mr S continued  paying his credit card. He even, some 
months after his redundancy, reduced the balance significantly - below what it had been 
before his redundancy. Mr S has told us he did this by taking other credit  and that this 
caused or deepened financial difficulties  he had. But even if what Mr S says about how he 
paid his credit card during this period is accurate, it still doesnt make me think  that Barclays 
was aware of Mr S having financial problems during this period.
From what  Ive seen it looks like after the policy was cancelled  the cover itself ended  before 
Mr Ss work stopped  as a result of his redundancy. So, with the cover having  ended and not 
offering any current protection, I dont think Barclays was wrong to not at some later stage 
refer Mr S back  to the PPI cover that hed formerly  had in place.  And Im not persuaded that 
Barclays failed to offer Mr S help it shouldve offered at the time he was made  redundant.
Mr S has made the point  that he paid for the PPI cover and didnt get any benefit  from it but 
then cancelled it just before  he mightve got some benefit from it. Ive thought  about  whether 
this would justify  awarding him compensation from Barclays.  As Ive noted, whether Mr S 
lost out as a result of cancelling the policy would depend on factors  including  whether after 
his redundancy  he was out of work for long enough  to be entitled  to claim. But even if Mr S 
mightve been able to claim if hed kept his policy, I dont  think this changes  the fact that he 
was eligible for the policy  benefits while the policy was in force.  So if hed made  a valid claim 
for sickness or unemployment  under  the policy while it was in force, Mr S couldve benefited  
from the policy. With this in mind, Mr Ss point about  this doesnt persuade me that Barclays 
ought to pay Mr S compensation for all the PPI premiums he has paid.
In the light of everything Ive said above,  I dont  think Barclays mis-sold the PPI and I dont 
think the policy being cancelled was the result of something Barclays  did wrong.  I also dont 
think Barclays was wrong to not refer Mr S back to the cover at some later date. So I dont 
uphold Mr Ss complaint  seeking compensation or redress for poor practice.
Mr S has been consistent in saying he cancelled the policy  to save  money because of his 
redundancy   even  when  Barclays incorrectly told him the policy  was cancelled three years 
later than it actually was cancelled. But I dont think this contradicts what Ive concluded 
about either the sale or the cancellation phone call. And I dont agree that Mr Ss consistency 
on this point changes  the other conclusions Ive reached above or means I ought to accept 
all of Mr Ss other points. For example, some of the points that Mr S has made in relation to 
the policy cancellation appear  to me to properly relate to later events, sometimes years later.
Ive taken into account all Mr Ss points but, for the reasons given  above,  my conclusions 
remain as set out above.
What Ive said above means Barclays doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr S. 
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:
Ref: DRN25012875When the policy was sold,  Barclays expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr S about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
I appreciate that my conclusion will disappoint Mr S. I thank him for his prompt cooperation 
and the information and clarification hes offered during our consideration of his complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this so I 
dont award any further compensation for this. Also, for the reasons Ive given above, I dont 
uphold the other parts  of Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2501287