K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Regency Insurance  Brokers Limited (Regency) miss-sold them each a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mr and Mrs D each took out a PPI policy  with a mortgage in 2008. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policies. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 30 September 2019,  a copy  
of which  is repeated below, and so it forms part of this final decision.  In my provisional 
decision I set out the reasons why I was minded  not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.  
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 30 October 2019.  At the time of writing I have received no further  
submission from either party in this case or received any request for an extension so that 
one could be made. The decision was sent to the correct addresses for both parties, so I 
consider that both parties have had sufficient time to make a submission had they wanted to. 
So I am proceeding to my final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ds case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Im minded  not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D had arranged their borrowing and then they sought  out accident  sickness and 
unemployment insurance cover for it, through an internet website.  They entered  personal  
information and details of what they were looking for in terms of cover. The website provided 
some different companies for them to consider,  based largely on cost.  Once  theyd chosen  
the company they were interested in the rest of the transaction was completed with that 
company. So having  considered all the submissions I have received in this case, I think  its 
more likely that Mr and Mrs D chose their cover and did so knowing they had a choice about 
it. 
Regency didnt  recommend the PPI, so it didnt have to check  that the PPI was right for Mr 
and Mrs D. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs D got the information they needed to 
decide if it was right for them.  Its possible that the information Regency  gave Mr and Mrs D 
Ref: DRN29266542about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it couldve been.  But considering their circumstances at the 
time of the sale, I dont  think that clearer information  about the policy  would have led Mr and 
Mrs D to make a different  decision. 
I say this because  Mr and Mrs D were  eligible for the policies  and werent affected by any of 
the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover.  In saying this I have considered what  Mr and 
Mrs D have said about pre-existing  medical conditions they had. Ive thought carefully about 
this and have,  in particular, listened  closely to what Mr and Mrs D told us about this matter 
themselves. 
Mrs D told us that she had an issue 6 years before the sale.  Whilst it had cost her quite a bit 
of time off work then, the condition was treated and hadnt reoccurred before the time of the 
sale. Mrs D told us that at the time of the sale, she was not concerned about the condition 
returning. Mr D had a condition that required some  treatment  and some  medication three 
years before the sale. Whilst  the condition remains an occasional concern to Mr D, Mrs D 
told us that Mr D never lets it prevent him having time off work.  So I think  that Mr and Mrs D 
wouldnt necessarily have  thought that these conditions were  likely to be the conditions that 
led them  to take time off work in the future. Having thought  about  all the submissions  made 
to me in this case, I dont think that better  information about the policies would have put Mr 
and Mrs D off taking  them out.   
And Mr and Mrs D seem  to have had a need for the cover.  Mr and Mrs D told us that they 
would have received no company sick pay had they been off work through ill health and that 
they had no other means to rely on if that happened, or if they lost their jobs.  But the PPI 
policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months  if they were  unable to work  through  sickness,  
accident or if they lost their jobs. So, considering all of the above, and the potentially serious 
consequences of defaulting on a loan secured  on the home  in which  you live, I think its most 
likely that Mr and Mrs D wouldve found  the PPI useful.
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I dont think  that better  information  would have 
led Mr and Mrs D to avoid the policies. So, I dont think  it most  likely that Mr and Mrs D have 
lost out due to anything  that Regency may have done wrong.
I have considered again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order  to decide  
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence  of any 
further points  for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set 
out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not uphold  Mr and 
Mrs Ds complaint about Regency  Insurance Brokers Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D 
either to accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing, before 6 December 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2926654