K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains about Society  of Lloyds and how they dealt with his claim under his
specialist vehicle insurance policy following a car accident. Reference  to Society of Lloyds
includes reference to all their agents
background 
Mr A had a comprehensive policy for his classic car with the Society of Lloyds. 
His classic car was involved in an accident in 2011.  Mr A said that Lloyds assessor  
dissuaded him from going to his usual garage to carry  out the repairs, and the car was taken 
to Lloyds recommended  garage to be repaired.
The repairs  were estimated at £18,281.24, which Lloyds paid to Mr A. Lloyds in cash. And
they said that they would pay any additional  costs subject to review by their engineer.
Repairs were completed in August 2011, but Mr A didnt collect the car until October 2013.
The car had mechanical  problems  after Mr A collected it, so he took it to his usual garage
who prepared a report and a list of further work  needed to make it roadworthy. Mr A sent a
copy of the report  to Lloyds and complained that their recommended  garage hadnt
completed the work to a proper standard.
Lloyds arranged for the car to be inspected  in January 2014. They said that only one of the
additional repairs on the report  to replace the voltage regulators - could be considered as
being due to accident damage. 
The estimated cost of replacing these was £599.18  and Lloyds  sent a cheque to Mr A to 
cover this cost. Mr A has said the cheque wasnt received and told our investigator  that he 
wouldnt have cashed it anyway, as he didnt think this was enough for the additional repairs 
hed had carried out.
Mr A wasnt  happy and complained because he said the repairs  had cost him a lot more than
the amount that Lloyds had paid him.
Lloyds sent their final response  letter  in January 2019. They didnt  uphold  the complaint.
They said that the car had passed its MOT after the repairs and had been inspected  by an
engineer and maintained only the work carried out to replace the voltage regulators  could  be
considered as accident damage.  They acknowledged  that Mr A had contacted them  to
submit a claim for repair  costs, which  werent initially settled,  but they thought  theyd dealt 
with Mr As claim  fairly.  
They said most of the items Mr A claimed for were wear and tear due to car being left so 
long before being collected and werent damage  caused by the accident or issues with the 
repairs carried out by their approved garage.
After Mr A complained to this service, Lloyds  calculated that Mr As additional  costs  came to
£1,304.767. And, as Mr As usual garage  had quoted him £189.32 for parts for the additional
work they thought was needed,  they added this sum to their offer. So, they offered a
settlement of £1,493.99 to Mr A through our service. 
Ref: DRN28401322Mr A rejected their offer.
Our investigator upheld  Mr As complaint. At the time of writing  his view, although he had the
costs of the additional parts, Mr A didnt have the total labour costs for the additional work,
and so the investigator said Lloyds should make  the following payments to Mr A
£1,304.67  plus simple interest  8% per annum from 6 December 2011 to date.
 £189.32 for the replacement of the regulators,  plus simple interest 8% from the date
Mr A made the payment  to date.
£100 for the distress and inconvenience  suffered  by Mr A.
He made  the interest award because he said that Lloyds should  have  ensured  that the
original cash-in-lieu payment was enough to cover the cost of the repair.  And Mr A was
deprived of the benefit of the money.
Our investigator didnt  think it was fair to expect Lloyds  to pay for all the repairs  listed in the
report from Mr As usual  garage,  because he said that the reports and invoices didnt say
these were accident related. And, as the car had been sold,  it wasnt possible to carry out a
further inspection.
Mr A accepted this view,  but Lloyds didnt.  They  said the original  cash sum paid to Mr A
was based on the information available at the time.  And they had agreed to make additional
payments to Mr A subject  to engineer approval.  
They said additional costs  werent known to them  until much  later and the additional  damage  
information only came  to light afterwards.
They didnt know why Mr A didnt cash the cheque  for £599.18 And they thought the interest
element was unfair because Mr A didnt take the responsibility to contact them and provide
them with invoices for the repairs.  They were  also unhappy with the compensation of £100
for the distress and inconvenience.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 May 2020 in which I set out the following provisional 
findings and provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  and Im proposing to uphold  it and I will
explain why.
Lloyds made an offer of £1,493.99 to settle  this matter, but Mr A rejected this because he
didnt think it was enough. I need to decide  whether what they have offered is fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Lloyds said they would  pay the shortfall in the cost of repairs.  Ive seen the file notes and in
2011 they had agreed  to cover these  so that Mr A wouldnt be out of pocket. Theyve already
told our investigator that they are still willing to make  a further payment and they accept this
amount was due for additional  accident  related repairs. So, I think its fair and reasonable
that they should pay this amount, less the £189.32  for the regulators,  which  Ive dealt with
below.
Turning to the question of interest payable on this sum. Our investigator proposed that
Ref: DRN28401323interest be payable  from 2011. Lloyds didnt  agree, because they had only received the
breakdown of these  additional costs in November 2018, so theyre saying interest  should be
calculated from the date they became aware.  I agree with Lloyds on this point. 
I think it would be unfair  to ask them to pay interest  from 2011  on a sum which  they didnt 
know about until 2018. So, Im satisfied that interest should be awarded from November 
2018.
Regarding the payment for the replacement regulators, Lloyds say they sent a cheque  in the
sum of £599.18 to Mr A in January 2015, after their engineer had accepted  that these may
have been part of the accident damage. And Lloyds say that Mr A didnt cash  the cheque. I
need to decide whether interest  should be added to this payment. 
Im satisfied that a cheque  was sent to Mr A because Lloyds correspondence suggests this. 
So I dont  think it would  be fair to award  interest  to Mr A on this amount, because  I can see 
from Lloyds file that they attempted to reach final settlement with Mr A between April and 
June 2014. And, as they heard nothing further, they sent a cheque for £599.18  in 
January 2015.  So, Im not proposing to award any interest on this amount.
Since the investigators view, Ive seen a letter from Mr As usual garage to say that in
addition to the cost of the regulators, they would have charged an additional £180  labour
plus VAT making total of £443.18.  So Im taking this into account  and I think  Lloyds should
pay £443.19 to Mr A instead  of the £599.18,  as this is the cost that Mr A actually incurred.
Turning to Mr As complaint that there was accident damage to the car which  Lloydss
recommended garage didnt fix. Ive seen a copy of the report from Mr As usual garage.
They said six items were accident related. One of which was the regulators, which  Ive dealt
with above.
But Im not persuaded the other five items were accident related. I say this because  In
February 2014 both parties mechanics met to discuss the report  and it seems that it was
agreed only the cost of the regulators would be paid. And Mr A was referred to the engineer
to discuss this. I havent seen any further  response from Mr A or his garage.  And, as the car
has now been sold, it isnt possible to reinspect it. So I dont think  its fair and reasonable to
ask Lloyds to pay for the other  items  on the list.
I agree  with the £100 award for the distress and inconvenience Mr A suffered suggested by
our investigator. Mr A had wanted  to use his usual garage at the start to repair  the car, but
he says he was dissuaded from doing so by Lloyds assessor. Looking  at the policy  booklet
from the time that Mr A took out his policy and the general conditions say
... If the damage to your  vehicle  is covered by this insurance, you must
arrange for your vehicle to be taken to the nearest competent 
repairer and we will accept any reasonable  costs as part of your claim
I havent seen  any evidence from either  party to say why Mr A was compelled to use Lloyds
recommended garage, but in his complaint letter in 2018, Mr A said:  
( ..) Engineering has been  my preferred choice to maintain my car from the day it 
was purchased and was also my choice to repair, after the accident unfortunately, I
was dissuaded  by your assessor ..into  accepting the work  to be carried
out by your approved  garage as this could then be monitored in house thereby
Ref: DRN28401324keeping a closer  control on the repairs.
I can see from google maps, that both garages were  equidistant to Mr As home address.
So, on balance, I think if his usual  garage  had carried out the repairs,  Mr A may have felt
happier. And, also it does  seem like Lloyds  approved repairer missed the need to replace
the regulators. So the engineer persuading Mr A to use Lloyds  garage  was unnecessary
and out of line with the policy terms. And the garage then missed an item they needed to
deal with. And this all clearly caused Mr A unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience. And I
think £100 in compensation to reflect this is fair and reasonable
My provisional decision is that I uphold  this complaint and Society  of Lloyds should pay Mr A
£1,304.67 plus simple  interest at a pro rata rate of 8% from 8 November 2018 to
now.
£443.18 for the additional repair work to the regulators
£100 for the distress and inconvenience  suffered  by Mr A.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. Mr A wrote to us to comment  on it. He said he was 
doubtful whether all the circumstances had been  considered, and he was disappointed at the 
whole situation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr A has said, and Id like to assure him that I understand that owning 
this car was the culmination of a dream for him, but I havent  seen any new information  
which has persuaded me to change my view.  So I see no reason to reach a different 
conclusion from the one set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I uphold this 
complaint and Society of Lloyds should pay Mr A
£1,304.67  plus simple interest  at a pro rata rate of 8% from 8 November 2018 to now
£443.18 for the additional repair work to the regulators
£100 for the distress and inconvenience  suffered  by Mr A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.  
Sejal Karia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2840132