K820x#14Complaint
Ms X is unhappy with the increases in the premium of her home insurance policy held with 
Paymentshield Ltd.
Background
In 2003, Ms X took out a Paymentshield home  insurance policy. In 2018, following receipt of 
a cheaper quote  from another  provider,  Ms X cancelled  her policy. Unhappy  with the way 
that the cost of her policy had increased over the years, Ms X complained  to Paymentshield. 
As part of her complaint, Ms X said she thought Paymentshield had treated her unfairly as 
she didnt think the premium increases over the years were  justified. She also said she could 
have obtained  similar cover with both Paymentshield and another  provider for less. To put 
things right, Ms X requested that Paymentshield  refund her any excess premiums she may 
have paid over the years.  
In response to her complaint, Paymentshield said it didnt  think  it had done anything  wrong.  
It explained to Ms X that her policys premiums had been based on the level of cover she 
required and were  in line with the general  rates relating to Ms Xs postcode,  her property 
type and number of claims within her area.  
Unhappy with Paymentshields response, Ms X asked our service  for an independent review 
of her complaint. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that she didnt think  
Paymentshield had done anything wrong.
As Ms X didnt agree  with the outcome  of our investigators assessment, the complaint was 
passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision in July 2020. In it I explained why I didnt think 
Paymentshield hadnt acted unfairly  in its dealings with Ms X. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision.
Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I agree  with our investigator. I dont currently 
think Paymentshield has acted unfairly  its dealings with Ms X. I know  this will come as a 
disappointment to Ms X, and Ill explain why Ive currently  reached the outcome I have.
Firstly, I think its worth  mentioning, that this complaint was by no means a simple case to 
decide. While Ms Xs complaint points appear  to be relatively straightforward,  this case has 
been somewhat  complicated by the number of different businesses and factors involved  all 
of which  contributed to the overall  cost of Ms Xs policy.
Having reviewed the available information in detail, its clear  that Ms Xs Paymentshield  
policy was made up of a number  of benefits  and elements. At any given time, Ms Xs 
premium would have  been made up of the following:
The cost of the home and contents insurance;
The cost of the home emergency cover;
The cost of the legal expenses cover;
Ref: DRN23591952Insurance premium  tax;
Paymentshields administrative cost and charges.
We also know that during  the 15 years Ms X held the policy, the benefits  listed above were  
provided by different insurers, all of which would have played a part in the overall premium 
increases over the years.
Based on the information provided, I can see Insurer A underwrote the buildings  and 
contents element  of the policy between 2003  and early 2007, and Insurer  B underwrote this 
section of the policy from April 2007 onwards. While its not clear who underwrote the home 
emergency and legal  expenses cover between  2003  and early  2007, we do know that these 
benefits were underwritten by at least  three  different insurers  from April 2007 onwards  
Insurer C, Insurer D and Insurer F. 
In addition to what we know about some  of the insurers associated with Ms Xs policy,  we 
know that Paymentshield administered the policy and appears to have managed the change  
of insurers over the years. We also know that Paymentshield set the overall monthly cost of 
Ms Xs policy, by combining the cost of the different insurance elements along with its costs  
and charges. 
As part of my review  of this complaint, Ive thought carefully about which business I think  
should be responsible for answering Ms Xs complaint. Given  Ms X complaint is about  the 
total monthly amount she paid for her policy over the years, it wouldnt seem right to look at 
each element of the overall cost,  in isolation. Taking  everything into account, including  the 
fact that Paymentshield was ultimately responsible for setting Ms Xs monthly  policy 
premium, I think  that in the specific circumstances of this complaint it would be both fair and 
appropriate to consider  this complaint against Paymentshield. 
I would like to make it clear that I dont  have the power to tell a business what it should 
charge its customers for insurance products. If I did, I would  be in effect determining or 
telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role.
But I can look at whether Paymentshield treated Ms X fairly during the time she held her 
home insurance policy with it. If I find that Paymentshield hasnt treated Ms X fairly, I will look 
to see what compensation  would be fair.
When Paymentshield first provided  Ms X with the cover, the policy  cost £37.27  per month.  
The policys  cost increased  over the years and in 2018, at the point at which  Ms X cancelled  
the policy, it had increased to around £97.74 per month  so Ive looked to see what  
happened.
Ms Xs policy automatically renewed each year. With automatic renewals there is a chance  
that if customers dont  engage with the renewal process or shop around for other suitable 
policies, they may find themselves in a position  where they are paying much  more for their 
cover than a new customer would pay for a similar policy.
A business hasnt  necessarily done  anything wrong  by changing the insurance  premium at 
renewal  and there are often risk-related  reasons  associated with the various insurers of the 
policy for doing so. Industry increases over time can also play a part.
Ref: DRN23591953As part of my investigation,  I had a look at the summary of Ms Xs monthly premiums for the 
period 2003 to 2018. Having carried out some calculations, I can see that there  were  
approximately 16 increases to Ms Xs monthly premiums ranging  between £0.52 to £9.49 
with the average  increase amounting to 2.96% of the previous months  premium.  The three 
largest increases  to Ms Xs premium appear  to have taken place in the first three  years  of 
Insurer B having underwritten her policy.
Looking at the contact Ms X had with Paymentshield  over the years, I can see that in 2007 
Ms X made three claims  on her policy  one for accidental  damage and two for escape of 
water. In addition to this, Insurer B has also told us that it believes Ms X made a number of 
claims on her policy during the time Insurer A underwrote her policy. Claims on policies do 
affect the renewal  price  in subsequent years, so its likely this would have  had an effect on 
what Ms X paid for her policy. 
In addition to this, Insurer B has also told us that its overall cost of insuring Ms Xs property 
exceeded the cost of the premium set by Insurer A. So, it says the initial increases to Ms Xs 
annual premium from 2007 onwards were intended to bring  the premium in line with the 
actual cost of the insurance it offered. This appears to be supported by the information both 
Paymentshield and Insurer B have provided  us with, about Ms X premiums  over the years.
I think its also worth mentioning that there  would have been many  external factors  involved 
in the price increases over the years - such  as increases in insurance premium  tax rates 
(increased from 5% to 12%)  and the impact  of inflation. Ms X held her policy for 
approximately 15 years, which is a long time. So it isnt unreasonable that the cost of her 
premium would have  risen over the years, to take these factors into account.
So, based  on what Ive said above, while there have been increases to the premiums over 
the years, Im satisfied that there  were legitimate  reasons behind the premium increases. 
And looking at the actual  increases applied  to Ms Xs premiums, I think its more  likely than 
not that they werent a result of the fact that she wasnt engaging with the business.
In her submissions to our service, Ms X has told us she was able to obtain an alternative 
policy with another  insurer  for a lot less than what she was paying  for her policy.  She says 
this shows she wasnt treated fairly by Paymentshield. She also says the fact that 
Paymentshield offered  her a significantly cheaper policy  in 2018, shows  it was overcharging 
her over the years.
While I dont doubt what Ms X has said about being  able to obtain cheaper insurance 
policies with other insurers in 2018, I dont think this amounts a fair comparison to the policy  
she held with Paymentshield. Ill explain why.
Often, when new policies are taken out, they come with a significant initial discount which  
insurers aim to recoup  over the years through customer retention.  This is often referred to as 
new customer discount and has the effect of reducing the initial cost of the insurance  
policy.  
Its also worth noting that more recently, online practices and price comparison websites 
have resulted in insurers  offering slightly more competitive prices. Some customers can now 
manage their policies online,  thereby  reducing administrative costs to insurers  with the 
resulting savings being applied to a reduction  in the cost a customer  pays for their policy.
Ref: DRN23591954Insurance policies  provided by different insurers may involve different benefits and/or levels 
of benefits and the level of service offered to customers  may also be different. So, we do 
need to be careful  when  comparing the cost of insurance policies, as there  may be some 
known and possibly  some unknown factors that could  impact on the overall cost of the 
policy.
In addition to this, its worth mentioning that insurers can also have a different perception of 
the risk a customer presents  and again the cost between  insurers  can be different based 
on each insurers perceived risk of the thing its undertaking to insure. As was the case  with 
Ms Xs policy, when Insurer B became the insurer of this policy and increased the premium 
to bring it in line with how much it had calculated its cost to insure Ms Xs property. All the 
factors Ive mentioned above, could  mean  that the cost of the policy Ms X held with 
Paymentshield and renewed in subsequent years, would be different to the cost of a policy  
taken out more recently. So, while  Ms X could  take out a policy at a much lower cost today, 
for the reasons explained, I dont  think it would be fair to compare the cost of different  
policies taken out at different times as if they were like-for-like.
Ive also thought about what  Ms X has said about  the fact that Paymentshield offered her a 
significant discount when she enquired about the increasing cost of the policy in 2018. 
Again, I dont think this means it did anything wrong when administering her policy  and 
setting the price of the premiums. Often, businesses will offer their customers discounts with 
the aim of retaining their existing  customers.  This is something businesses may do at their 
own discretion and we wouldnt consider it unfair.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont currently think Paymentshield has acted unfairly in its 
dealings with Ms X. I therefore dont currently recommend that it refund her any of the 
premiums she paid for her policy.
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. 
Paymentshield didnt  respond with any further  information. Ms X, however, did respond  
saying she disagreed with the outcome and asked me to consider the following points before 
I issue my final decision:
She said she felt like her personal circumstances hadnt been taken into account and 
that her personal and financial situation  ought to have had a bearing on the outcome 
of her case.
She said she feels Paymentshield ought  to have reminded  her at each renewal that 
she should shop  around in order to check whether cheaper cover was available on 
the market.
She didnt feel that the claims she made  on her policy ought to have had a bearing 
on the cost of the policy  in the subsequent years.
She also felt that she should have been given the option of speaking  to the deciding 
ombudsman before the provisional  decision was issued. 
Ref: DRN23591955My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about what  Ms X has said, including  what shes said in response to my 
provisional decision, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and below, I dont 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
While I appreciate Ms X feels that her personal  and financial situation  ought to have had a 
bearing on the outcome of her complaint,  it is not my role to uphold complaints where Im not 
persuaded the business did anything wrong.  While  all circumstances and facts are 
considered when determining the outcome of a complaint, a consumers personal and 
financial circumstances alone cannot  be the only deciding  factor  when reaching an outcome 
 that would not be fair or appropriate.  In this particular case, I dont doubt that the cost of 
Ms Xs insurance would have impacted on her financial situation, however, for the reasons 
set out above  and in my provisional  decision, I dont think  this complaint should be upheld, 
as I dont think Paymentshield acted unfairly when setting the cost of Ms Xs premium.
In addition to this, Ms X has said that she feels that Paymentshield ought to have told her at 
the point of each renewal  that she may be able to obtain cheaper insurance  elsewhere if she 
shopped around. In terms of the Transparency in insurance renewal  rules  set by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA),  from 1 April 2017,  insurance companies and 
intermediaries were required to include such reminders in their renewal letters,  where 
consumers had renewed their policy four, or more, consecutive times.  
In order to see whether  Paymentshield, complied with its obligations under the FCAs rules  I 
had a look at the renewal  notice it issued to Ms X in March  2018. On the notice I can see it 
states the following, You have been with us for a number of years.  You may be able to get 
the insurance cover you want  at a better price if you shop around.  Given  the fact that 
Paymentshield included  this reminder  in the renewal letter from the point  at which  it needed 
to, Im satisfied that it did make Ms X aware  that she may be able to obtain her cover for 
cheaper if she shopped around. While I appreciate that Ms X would have wanted this 
reminder to be included on her previous renewals, Paymentshield wasnt required to include 
this reminder prior to point at which the FCAs rules took effect. It follows  that Im unable to 
conclude that Paymentshield did anything wrong,  by not including the above-mentioned 
reminder in any renewal notices issued prior to 1 April 2017,
Ms X has also questioned  whether  its fair that any claims  she made under her policy may 
have had an impact on the cost of her policy over the years.  While Ms X might  not agree that 
this should be the case, Id like to assure her that its not uncommon practice for insurers  to 
increase the cost of a policy following a claim. Id also like to remind  Ms X that any decision 
made by the insurer to increase the cost of her policy wouldnt be one I could  consider  
against Paymentshield, as Paymentshield wasnt the insurer.
Finally, Ms X feels she should have been given  the opportunity to speak to me about her 
complaint before I issued my decision. Having previously considered her request in light to 
the information shed provided, I didnt think it was necessary  and I still believe that to be 
the case. While I appreciate that Ms X will be disappointed  with the decision Ive made, I 
would like to assure  her that I have understood her complaint  and believe that our service  
has been provided with sufficient information  from both parties for me to fairly decide the 
outcome of this complaint.
Ref: DRN23591956Having reviewed the points Ms X provided  in support of her appeal against my provisional 
findings and having reconsidered all the evidence in its entirety, I have  come  to the same 
outcome for the same reasons as set out in my provisional findings.  
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Ms Xs 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms X to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2359195