K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them two payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policies.  
background and summary to complaint
regular premium policy
Mr and Mrs D bought  the policy in 1996  at the same  time as taking out a loan. Due to the 
time that has passed, its not clear how Mr and Mrs D applied  for their loan and PPI policy, 
but they have  said it was by post.  
Its also not known  how long the loan term was or how much  the monthly loan repayment 
was, but the PPI cost an additional £22.72 per month.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr D for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. Its unclear whether the policy  was protecting  a secured or 
unsecured loan. If it was a secured  loan,  the policy would have offered to repay  Mr and 
Mrs Ds monthly  loan repayment for up to 24 months in the event of a successful disability 
claim and up to 12 months in the event of unemployment. If it was an unsecured loan,  the 
policy would have offered to repay  Mr and Mrs Ds monthly loan repayment for up to the 
remaining term in the event of a successful  disability claim and up to 12 months in the event 
of unemployment.
At the time,  Mr D was employed  as a parts manager. Mr D told us he was entitled  to at least 
one month  of redundancy pay, but he didnt have  any other means of repaying their loan 
should he be unable  to work.  Mr D said he was in good health at the time of the sale.  
single premium policy
Mr and Mrs D bought  the policy in 1999  at the same  time as taking out a top up loan. They  
applied for the loan and PPI policy through the post.
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £1079.78 was paid in advance by being  added to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 60-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £133.79  with the PPI costing  an additional £24.07 making  the total 
monthly repayment £157.86.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr D for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr and Mrs Ds monthly loan repayment 
for up to the remaining  term in the event of a successful disability claim and for up to 
12 months in the event  of unemployment.  
At the time,  Mr D was employed  as a parts manager at a different employer. Mr D told us he 
was entitled to at least  one month of redundancy pay, but he didnt have any other means  of 
repaying their loan should he be unable  to work. Mr D said he was in good health  at the time 
of the sale. 
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2000.
Ref: DRN28593322Mr and Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ds representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time of both sales. 
In those circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses 
on handling  PPI complaints under DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs D 
wouldnt have taken  out the policies  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and 
Mrs Ds representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
Both policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Nationwide 
should have told Mr and Mrs D about the poor value;
The cancellation terms  of the single premium  policy were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs D 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint
Ref: DRN28593323The sales  took place  in 1996  and 1999  before the General  Insurance Standards  Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The top up loan credit agreement concluded in 2000. That means the unfair relationship  
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sales took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Ref: DRN28593324key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policies, 
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policies and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs D, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs D 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs D 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs D know they had a choice  when they bought the regular premium  
policy?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
The sale took place  a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide much 
information. Because of this, I need  to decide  what I think  is most  likely  to have happened 
when the PPI was sold.  
Ive seen a copy  of an application form for both secured and unsecured  loans Nationwide 
says was used  around  the time Mr D and Mrs Ds policy  was sold.  Both types of applications 
forms show that the PPI was optional, and this is consistent with my knowledge of how 
Nationwide sold PPI around the time.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs D knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Mr and Mrs D know they had a choice  when they bought the single premium 
policy?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Nationwide has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ds application form which shows  two 
separate boxes  to tick either yes or no for the policy. The yes box has been  ticked  and 
the no box has been left blank. Mr and Mrs D have signed to confirm  the selection.
Ref: DRN28593325Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs D knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice  on either of the policies?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  either  sale and Mr and Mrs D havent said 
anything to make me think it did.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI policies were suitable  for Mr and 
Mrs D. Instead,  it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
Mr and Mrs D to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policies, including  
drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions.
the information  for the regular  premium policy 
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr D was unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability) and of the approximate 
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have  
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs D agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs D? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs D suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold the regular premium 
policy to Mr and Mrs D. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable 
to conclude Mr and Mrs D suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must 
decide whether  or not Mr and Mrs D would have  still taken out the policy,  had Nationwide  
done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs D say they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs D had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
Ref: DRN28593326As Ive found above, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D chose  to take this 
policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to conclude they had some interest in the 
benefits offered  by this type of insurance.  But they made this decision based on incomplete 
information. So what Mr and Mrs D thought they were getting is not exactly  what  they got. 
The extent  to which this differed is a relevant consideration when determining  if Mr and 
Mrs D has suffered any loss or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Nationwide  told them the exact premium at the 
point Mr and Mrs D applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs D 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for 
several months, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Nationwide at the time or reconsidered  
their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs D would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Nationwide  made  clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs D would get 
back in return in the event Mr D made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs Ds expectations about  what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their loan payments) were  significantly different to what  the policy  actually 
did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs D thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr D 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr D 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs D pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs D from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr D was eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr D wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr D didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN28593327The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr D would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs D would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  were  Mr D made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
the information  for the single premium policy
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D were given a broad description  of 
what the policies  were intended  to cover (that is that the policies would protect  their 
payments if Mr and Mrs D was unable to work through accident, sickness and 
unemployment.) I have reached  this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs D 
would have taken  out the policies without any sense of what the policies were. 
And I think Mr and Mrs D knew that the single  premium  being added to the loan in 1999 was 
£1,079.78, the interest added to the premium was £364.42, the total cost was £1,444.20 and 
the monthly cost was £24.07 (as this information  was, in my view,  sufficiently  clear  on the 
loan agreement Mr and Mrs D signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions and limitations before 
Mr and Mrs D agreed  to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ds representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Ds. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ds representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
Ref: DRN28593328-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs D about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs D has suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs D? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs D suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs D. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs D suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs D would have still taken  out the policy,  had Nationwide  done things 
properly. 
Mr and Mrs D say they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs D had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs D chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs D thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs D has suffered  any loss 
or detriment.  
As Ive already  said, the information Mr and Mrs D were given about the cost was clear.  But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs D would get back  in 
return in the event Mr D made a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ds 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their loan payments)  were significantly different to what  the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs D thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr D 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;
Ref: DRN28593329The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr D 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr D be unable  to 
do his own job or any paid work.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs D pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs D from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr D was eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr D wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr D didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and he was in permanent employment.  So, I still think  
they had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr D would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr D needed  to be totally unable to do his normal job and not be 
doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have  
expected to make a claim. So it seems unlikely  he would have thought hed have been  able 
to make a successful claim if he was still working.
The policy provided  a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early,  so the policy  provided 
flexibility if Mr and Mrs D decided to repay the loan early and cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs D would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  were  Mr D made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ds representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN285933210Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs D would not have bought either of the PPI polices they bought unless, 
in the particular circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut  the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and 
Mrs Ds circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position 
Mr and Mrs D found themselves in as result of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred for either sale. 
Mr and Mrs D believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs D in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI during both sales  had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information  
about the policies they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in 
those circumstances,  to conclude Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs D compensation, as 
that would  put them  in a better position  than they would have been in if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs D think the regular premium policy contains an unfair  
contract term  allowing the business to unilaterally  vary the cover and the premium. 
I accept Nationwide  shouldve done more to clearly bring the contractual term about the 
insurers right to unilaterally vary the cover  and premium to Mr and Mrs Ds attention. Im 
satisfied this was a significant  term and I think Mr and Mrs D would have wanted to know 
about this. Because Mr and Mrs D werent clearly told I dont think Nationwide  acted  fairly  
and reasonably in this case. 
But even if Nationwide  had done more to highlight the term clearly to Mr and Mrs D, I dont 
think this wouldve made a difference to their decision to buy the PPI. As Ive set out above, 
Mr and Mrs D had good reasons to take out the policy.
So while I accept Nationwide shouldve done more to bring this term to their attention  for the 
regular premium policy, for the reasons  Ive set out above, I dont think they wouldve been 
put off buying  the policy  if Nationwide had done more.  
Ref: DRN285933211Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ds representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But this 
doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs D in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 August 2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2859332