K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  is about  the handling of a claim under their home emergency 
insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited. Mr and Mrs C are also unhappy with the 
cost of the policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs C have held a central heating insurance  policy with British Gas for some  time. 
The policy initially  covered them  at their previous address. Mr and Mrs C moved to their 
current address in November 2017. 
Shortly after moving into their new property, British Gas sent a contractor to check  their 
heating system. I understand that while carrying out this check, the engineer broke  a tap in 
their utility room. When Mr and Mrs C contacted  British Gas about this, they were  told to 
arrange the repairs with the contractor themselves. Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with this, as 
they considered  it was British Gass responsibility,  as it had appointed the contractors. 
Mr and Mrs C had also asked British Gas to investigate why they were unable  to get hot 
water from the tap in the kitchen, which was not done. 
When bringing the complaint about these  matters, Mr and Mrs C also raised  issue  with the 
cost of the policy. They said they paid £384 for the previous year and then were charged  
£427 despite them moving to a (almost)  new build home, compared to their previous home 
which was over 100 years  old. In addition,  the 2017  policy covered a gas fire as well as the 
central heating system,  whereas the new policy only covers the central  heating. And the 
renewal premium for November 2019  was even higher. Mr and Mrs C say the price just 
keeps going up and up and this is unfair.  
Mr and Mrs C want the tap repaired or replaced,  so they can have hot water again, a 
proportionate refund of the premium  for the time the tap was out of action; and the right to 
cancel the contract  without any penalty charges.
 
British Gas said that it had issued a new policy contract when Mr and Mrs C moved house 
and it offered a new customer  discount  during the first year of the policy  at their new address 
(from November 2017 to November 2018);  this is a flat new customer rate as they didnt 
know any details about the make, model and age of the boiler or size of property and 
number of radiators.  In the following  year, Mr and Mrs C no longer  benefited  from the 
introductory offer and their premium was calculated on a risk based assessment, as British 
Gas then had more information about the property  and the risk being covered  
British Gas accepted there were delays in repairing the tap. It arranged  the repairs shortly 
after the complaint came  to us in February  2019 and agreed to pay £75 compensation for 
the delay in doing so. Mr and Mrs C have  confirmed they are satisfied that this resolves  this 
part of their complaint.
British Gas also looked into the issue with the kitchen tap in May 2019. It said this was not 
covered by the policy and again I understand Mr and Mrs C have accepted  that. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  about the cost of the policy  and did not 
consider that it should be upheld. The investigator said that the policy  for their previous 
address had been due to end in April 2017 and for the following year (i.e. April 2017 to April 
Ref: DRN225008422018) would have cost £636.12. British Gas said that when they moved  house,  it issued  a 
new contract and this was on new customer rates (i.e. just the straight base rate without an 
other factors included) as it wouldnt know anything about the property and the heating  
system and therefore  how likely claims would be and the nature of the risk it was taking on. 
The investigator thought this was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs C do not accept the investigators assessment and say he has not understood 
their arguments. They  have made a number of submissions in response, which Ive 
summarised below:
 
The policy didnt end in April 2017,  it continued  on with the direct debit that was
in place. In any event, this is irrelevant. They were  never told that the contract on 
their old house would end and a new one would start for the new house. 
It is not clear which house British  Gas was covering from 7 November 2017.  
2017 was not the first year they held the policy; they were not new customers  and 
were not given any introductory offer.  They were  told British Gas was unable to do 
this as it had to check the boiler and the number of radiators/appliances in the 
property. It did not come to do this until 9 January  2018. So, in the interim what  
was the insurance  covering and in what property?  
Despite coming out to carry  out the inspection to see what required cover, they 
subsequently discovered that the gas hob wasnt covered. This was negligence on 
British Gass part, as it should have been included. Theyve  had to pay a further 
premium for the hob to be added.
Theyve received  the renewal documents for November 2019  November  2020  
policy year which has now gone  up to £512.40  for the central heating and £129.72 for 
the gas hob. 
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers are generally entitled to decide the premium they want to charge for the 
insurance provided. And consumers are free to choose whether they are willing to pay 
that premium; obtain insurance elsewhere or not take the insurance at all. 
Normally insurers calculate a base premium rate for a policy and then other  factors  they 
consider relevant to the risk being  covered are applied, which might bring that base  
premium up or down. Different  insurers apply different factors. I cant  set out in detail the 
factors that British Gas consider relevant and apply to its policies, as these are 
commercially sensitive  but I have considered the information it has provided.
Mr and Mrs Cs cover previously ran from April to April each year and in April 2017 they were 
quoted £636.12 (to also include gas fire) for the following policy  year at their old address. 
Mr and Mrs C then moved house in November 2017  and British  Gas issued a policy 
document on 15 November 2017.  I have seen the policy documents issued to Mr and Mrs C, 
which say the agreement would run from 15 November 2017 to 14 November 2018 at a cost 
of £384 (considerably less than the amount that was being  charged  on their previous home).  
The documents also specify the agreement  address  as their new address.  
Ref: DRN22500843In my opinion, it is therefore clear  that from 15 November 2017  there  was a new policy  
contract in place, covering Mr and Mrs Cs current home.
I have also seen the pricing  information, which as stated is commercially sensitive, and it 
reflects what  British Gas has said about the policy which ran from November 2017 to 
November 2018,  (i.e. that they were  charged  the flat base rate that applies to new 
customers). Then at the November  2018  renewal, British Gas applied  certain  other factors to 
calculate the premium  for that year, including  the size of the property, geographical factors 
etc. 
The most significant reason for the change in the price in 2018, from £384,  was however the 
rise in base rate but British Gas also capped the rise so that the premium  for that year was 
£427. This is still considerably lower that the premium charged for their previous home 
(which as Mr and Mrs C have said had a much older  central  heating  system and also 
included a gas fire).
British Gas provided documentation  to Mr and Mrs C in advance  each  time the policy was 
due to renew, which set out clearly the price it was intending to charge. The price of the 
cover has gone up in the time theyve held the policy. Since November 2017 it has gone  
from £384, to £427, and then to £512  in 2019. I dont think  these are unreasonable  
increases. Having applied a discount in one year, it is not committed  to doing  so in any 
following years.
Overall, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs C were treated fairly and in line with other  
customers; and Im not persuaded that the premiums have  been calculated  unfairly or that 
British Gas needed to provide any further information to Mr and Mrs C, who were free to 
choose another policy elsewhere if they didnt accept the premium.
If they wish to cancel  the policy now, then I dont  think British  Gas is required to waive any 
fess that the policy  allows  it to charge.  There is no evidence that Im aware of that Mr and 
Mrs C had asked for the gas hob to be included in the cover previously but, even if they did, 
theres no mention  of any claim needing to have  been made which was not covered, so I 
dont intend to take this any further. It is now included in the cover.
I understand Mr and Mrs C accept that the problem with obtaining hot water  from one tap is 
not covered by the policy. I dont therefore  intend to make  any finding about  this. 
In relation to the broken  tap, British  Gas has paid £75 compensation. I consider this to be 
reasonable. 
Ref: DRN22500844my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part, as I agree that the payment of £75 is reasonable 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by the broken tap and the delay in 
repairing it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 April 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2250084