K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse  Limited, trading as Jaguar Financial Services,  wasnt  of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr H under a hire purchase agreement with Jaguar Financial 
Services that he signed in January 2018. The car was about a year and a half old and 
Jaguar Financial Services says that it had been  driven for 12,267  miles. He says that there 
were a number of faults with the car including issues with the Bluetooth, the door cards  
vibrating, distorted sound from the speakers (which hed paid to have upgraded),  clicking 
from the seat belt, issues with the tyres, the rear bumper not being resprayed properly and a 
fault with the replacement  boot seal. He complained to the dealer and other  manufacturer 
approved dealers about those faults  and repairs were attempted.  
Mr H complained to Jaguar Financial Services about  the continuing issues  with the car in 
July 2018. It offered to make a payment  to Mr H of £530.55 which  was equivalent to a 
monthly repayment to acknowledge  any trouble and upset hed been caused. And it said that 
the dealer had offered  to replace  the car but Mr H would need  to pay a further £6,000.  He 
wasnt satisfied with Jaguar Financial  Services  response so complained  to this service  in 
September 2018. He also complained to Jaguar Financial  Services in October 2018 about  
another fault as he wasnt able to use the cars  remote start function.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that Mr H had 
provided a report from a garage  which said that there are a number of issues with the car - 
and he said that he hadnt seen anything  from Jaguar Financial Services  to show that there  
were no faults or that the faults werent  present  at the point of sale. So he recommended that 
Jaguar Financial Services should  cancel Mr Hs hire purchase agreement and collect the car 
from him - and refund his deposit and 25% of the monthly instalments that hed paid (with 
interest).
Jaguar Financial Services says that it offered to repair any issues  that Mr H had raised  within 
the first six months. Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  
He has responded  in detail and says, in summary, that he shouldnt  lose the £4,372.50 that 
hed paid for the car (as at February 2019) and that the car has now been in the garage for a 
total of more than 100 days since it was supplied to him. He says that he feels its fair to pay 
for a bit of the use that hes had from the car but that 75% of his monthly payments is too 
much given the problems  that hes had with the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jaguar Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the 
car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Mr H. That will depend  on a number of 
factors, including the age, and mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. 
Ref: DRN24737732The car that was supplied  to Mr H was only about  a year and half old and it had been driven 
for 12,267  miles. The price of the car was £29,140  and Mr H agreed to make  60 monthly 
payments of £530.55  (which included monthly  payments to pay for GAP insurance and 
cosmetic protection).
Mr H complained about a number  of faults with the car soon after it was supplied to him - 
including issues with the Bluetooth, the door cards  vibrating, distorted sound from the 
speakers, clicking from the seat belt, issues with the tyres,  the rear bumper not being  
resprayed properly  and a fault with the replacement  boot seal. Jaguar Financial Services  
says that the dealer repaired some of those faults  and it offered to pay him £530.55 because 
of the issues that hed had with the car.
But Mr H says that the faults  continue and hes provided an inspection  report  from a garage 
which says that there are number of ongoing  issues with the car. And Mr H says that the car 
has now been with a garage  for a total of more than 100 days since  the car was supplied  to 
him.
I dont consider that its reasonable  that a car of this age, mileage  and cost should have so 
many issues  so soon after it was supplied to Mr H. And I consider it to be more likely  than 
not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Mr H. So I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Jaguar Financial Services to accept Mr Hs rejection of the 
car. And I consider that it should end the agreement and collect the car from Mr H and 
refund to him the deposit  of £3,150 that he paid for the car (with interest).
The cars mileage is now more than 38,000 miles. So Mr H has been able to use the car to 
drive more than 25,000  miles in the car in the 17 months since the car was supplied to him  
and hes benefitted  from the GAP insurance  and cosmetic protection during that period. I find 
that it would  be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Jaguar Financial  Services  to 
refund to Mr H 25% of the monthly  payments that hes made under the agreement  (with 
interest). Jaguar  Financial  Services can keep the other 75% of those payments as payment 
for the use that Mr H has had from the car. I consider that to be fair and reasonable. Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require Jaguar Financial Services  to 
refund to Mr H a larger proportion of his monthly payments or to refund  to him any other  
amounts that hes paid for the car.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part. And I order Black 
Horse Limited, trading  as Jaguar Financial Services, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr H  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr H the deposit  of £3,150 that he paid for the car.
3. Refund to Mr H 25% of the monthly payments that hes made under the 
agreement.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN24737733HM Revenue & Customs  requires Jaguar Financial Services to deduct  tax from the interest 
payment referred  to at 4 above. Jaguar Financial Services  must give Mr H a certificate 
showing how much  tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2473773