K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about poor workmanship and poor customer service by 
British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) when he called on it for assistance under his home 
emergency insurance policy in respect of a number  of issues.
background
Mr A had a home emergency insurance  policy with BGI which covered, amongst other 
things, his kitchen  appliances, plumbing and drains. He complained to BGI about  a number 
of matters where he thought the service  it had provided under his policy had been poor:
dishwasher
He said that in 2014 BGI attended about  a dishwasher fault. The engineer who came  told 
him it couldnt be repaired and so he would  need to buy a new dishwasher. He bought a new 
dishwasher and arranged for BGI to attend  and swap the two appliances. He says the BGI 
engineer who came to do this fixed the old dishwasher, and it was still working now in 2018. 
He returned the new dishwasher, but lost £80 in the process.
BGI said its records  showed that in 2014 its engineer  reported  Mr As dishwasher had failed 
an insulation  test and was beyond economic repair. So in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of its policy it arranged for Mr A to buy a new dishwasher  at a discount.
There was nothing in its records to say any BGI engineer had returned in 2014 and repaired 
the dishwasher. And it couldnt comment on what any other repairer  might  had said or done.  
At this point in time there was nothing to suggest the diagnosis that the dishwasher was 
beyond economic repair wasnt correct.
kitchen tap
In 2017, Mr A had problems with a leaking kitchen tap. He says BGI told him he should buy 
a replacement himself, and BGI would then return and fit it. Mr A didnt know what kind of tap 
he should buy. So he arranged for another company to supply and fit the tap.
BGI said its records  showed that its engineer  had been called out to a leaking tap. He 
reported he had tightened a fixing bolt. Before leaving he tested  the tap and reported it to be 
OK. It had no record of any further  complaint  or visit about the tap.
BGI said that under its terms and conditions, if it couldnt repair a tap it would fit a standard  
replacement from its range. Alternatively,  a customer  could give its engineer a replacement 
part that they had bought and which BGI approved. In this case there was no evidence that 
Mr A contacted BGI after the first visit to say the tap was leaking again  and give it the 
opportunity to repair or replace the tap.
drain/manhole
In 2017, Mr A said he had a problem with blockages in his drains flowing into a manhole in 
his kitchen. A BGI engineer attended and said Mr A would have to get someone to provide 
access to the manhole as it had been  covered with ceramic tiles. After  this had been done 
BGI returned, but Mr A said it didnt cure the problem.
Ref: DRN25417252Mr A said he arranged  for someone  else to come and get rid of the blockage. However he 
had been charged £285, which  he thought  BGI should reimburse.
BGI said its records  showed it had attended about  the drains issue  on three occasions. The 
first time was about slow drainage from the bathroom sink. Its engineer  cleared this by jetting 
from an outside manhole, as the internal manhole  in the kitchen  had been  covered by 
ceramic tiles.
Two days later, its engineer returned as the kitchen sink was now reported  as slow to drain.  
He cleared this, but said for any future blockage he might need access to the kitchen  
manhole. The next day he was called back as the kitchen drain was still blocked.  The 
kitchen manhole  was now accessible and he was able to clear the blockage.
BGI said it had no record of any further problem with the drains, and hadnt been given the 
opportunity to resolve any further issue. Mr A had produced an invoice for the work he said 
had been done by the third party to cure the problem. However  BGI said it only mentioned  
removing and refixing the tiles covering the manhole, not any plumbing work. And the 
invoice had no VAT number. So BGI wouldnt reimburse Mr A for this invoice.
our investigators view
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  On the kitchen taps,  
BGI had tried to carry out a repair, which seemed to have been effective at the time.  She 
thought it was fair, and in accordance with the policy,  for BGI to tell Mr A to buy a 
replacement himself if he wanted something other  than a standard tap.
On the dishwasher,  she couldnt say BGIs engineer  had been wrong to say it was beyond  
economic repair  when it failed an insulation test. BGI had no record  of another  of its 
engineers returning and repairing the dishwasher. In the absence of any further evidence 
from Mr A that this had happened,  she couldnt ask it to compensate  him for the returned 
new dishwasher.
On the drain/manhole,  our investigator said that if Mr A was unhappy with the drain still 
being blocked after the three visits by BGI, she would have expected him to contact  BGI 
immediately before using another company, but he hadnt. And the invoice he had produced  
made no mention  of removing blockages. So she couldnt say BGI was responsible for these 
costs.
Mr A responded to say, in summary, that notwithstanding what  BGIs records  said, he still 
maintained that a second BGI engineer had repaired his dishwasher after the first BGI 
engineer said it was beyond economic repair. And on the other two issues he felt he was 
justified in calling in another organisation when he had given BGI the chance to carry out the 
repairs, and it had failed  to do so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the kitchen taps, BGIs terms and conditions  say that if it cant repair  a tap it will replace 
it, either  with a standard tap or another tap of the customers  choice.  Mr A doesnt  seem to 
Ref: DRN25417253have given BGI the opportunity to do this, and I cant say it has treated him unfairly under the 
policy.
On the dishwasher,  I would have expected Mr A to raise this issue immediately if a second  
BGI engineer contradicted  the first engineer as he says. And BGIs  own records  make no 
mention of this. So in the absence of any further  evidence I cant say BGI should 
compensate Mr A in respect of the returned dishwasher.
On the drain/manhole,  there isnt any evidence that he told BGI at the time that its engineers 
hadnt resolved  the blockage issue. And the invoice he has produced doesnt say that the 
other organisation did anything in relation to a blockage. So I cant  say, on the evidence 
available to me, that BGI failed  in its duties under the policy, or that it should  compensate  
Mr A in respect of the invoice he has produced. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against 
British Gas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2541725