K822xcomplaint
Mr H has complained The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc wont refund him for transactions 
made using  his debit  card after it was stolen.
background 
After noticing  his debit card and phone were missing, Mr H realised there  were  transactions 
made using  his card he hadnt done.  He called RBS and reported his card stolen. There 
were a number of different transactions made over a few hours including the first attempted 
use at 01:10 hours just after Mr H lost his card and phone.
These included  use at different retailers, two cash machine withdrawals  and a withdrawal of 
£95 in a branch and totalled £692.05.  There were also a number of attempted transactions  
which were rejected as Mr Hs account didnt have sufficient funds by that stage. Balance 
enquiries were also done at the cash machines.
As RBS werent able to figure out how someone  else could have got hold of Mr Hs PIN, they 
rejected his claim for a refund. Mr H was unhappy with this outcome and brought  his 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator considered the evidence, including the fact these transactions  looked out of 
character for Mr H. She, too, couldnt  understand how someone could have got hold of 
Mr Hs PIN. Mr H had told us hed not shared this with anybody.  Our investigator  told Mr H 
that she wasnt going to ask RBS to refund him.
Mr H has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 12 March 2020. I came to a different conclusion to our 
investigator. I didnt  believe  Mr H had authorised the disputed  transactions.
I didnt get a response from either  RBS or Mr H to my provisional  decision.  I now have all I 
need to complete a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason not to 
repeat the reasoning from my provisional  decision.  I noted that prior to the provisional 
decision Id been  in touch with both RBS and Mr H so my conclusion  was unlikely to be a 
surprise. 
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer  was grossly negligent in looking after their card and PIN  but nothing 
thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here.  So when we look at whether a 
bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we consider 
is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If 
they did, then we generally wouldnt  ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both RBS and Mr H have told us. 
Ref: DRN29811932Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 18 November 2019. I dont intend to 
repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
The last PIN-based  transaction  Mr H made was at 19:16 on 28 September when he 
withdrew £100 in cash.
Mr H had his card and phone with him later that evening  when  he went to a gig. By 
this stage, hed already  paid for his hotel accommodation and an uber to get him to 
the gig. 
Although Mr H noticed his card was missing, he didnt call to report this to RBS until 
30 September after logging online. Hed logged onto his account  on 29 September  
after he got back and was able to use an old phone at home. Mr H has told us he 
reported his card lost on 29 September using  RBSs mobile banking app. Im aware 
his old phone at home which  hed used  had no SIM-card.
RBS alleged Mr H was logging  on whilst  the fraud took place but Ive seen no 
evidence of this.
They also questioned  why someone wouldnt continue to use the card after it was 
cancelled. Except  RBSs own data confirms the card kept being declined  on 
29 September because of insufficient funds so any fraudster would have  stopped 
using it eventually which is what I believe happened.
Within a 15 minute period after 01.10 hours, there were  four attempted withdrawals  
at a cash machine,  with only two being successful. There were  also two balance  
enquires.
RBS also wondered why no balance check was done when someone withdrew cash  
in branch later that morning. But in fact there  had been balance enquiries earlier on.
The disputed use of the card follows a pattern we often see with disputed 
transactions. Taking out cash as rapidly  as possible; then buying alcohol and 
potentially marketable items at service stations, followed by attempts to buy pairs of 
trainers.
None of this suggests  the most  sophisticated  fraud but it does suggest someone got 
lucky. They either pickpocketed  Mr H at the gig or found his phone  and card.  I cant  
say, for sure, how they found  out Mr Hs PIN. Theres no evidence  he wrote it down. 
He wouldnt need to since it had last been changed in March  2015. But theres 
certainly an opportunity for compromise.  Getting into someones mobile without the 
PIN or fingerprint  isnt that difficult  to do.
RBSs mobile banking log does show Mr H logged onto his mobile  banking  service 
on 29 September using a different device  than when hed done  this previously. This 
supports his story that hed lost his phone.
I find Mr Hs testimony  consistent and credible.
The test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity for the card and PIN to be 
compromised; rather whether the payment services user (Mr H in this case)  authorised  these 
transactions. Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got hold of Mr Hs PIN, 
made these  transactions or to investigate who that potential  fraudster may be. 
However I do need to believe there are scenarios which explain how someone could have 
used Mr Hs card and PIN. I see no reason to doubt  Mr Hs testimony his card and phone 
were pinched when  he was out at a gig on the night  of 28 September 2018. Ive also 
Ref: DRN29811933considered the usage that was then made  of Mr Hs card which  follows quite a well-worn  
fraudulent pattern.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I dont believe  Mr H made or authorised these  
transactions. RBS will need to refund  Mr H for these disputed transactions.
I find it surprising that RBS chose not to believe Mr H. Theyve not suggested  he has a 
history of fraudulent  transactions  with them. Id have thought a cursory examination of the 
type of transactions he was disputing would confirm  these were fraudulent. I will also be 
asking RBS to pay Mr H £200 for the inconvenience  caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc to:
Refund Mr H for the disputed transactions made  on 29 September 2018; 
Add 8% simple interest a year to that amount from that date until the date of 
settlement; and
Pay Mr H £200 for the inconvenience  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2981193