K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that PDL Finance Limited,  trading as Mr Lender,  lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.  
background
Miss T took out two loans  with Mr Lender  in May 2014 and July 2014. She repaid both loans.  
A summary  of Miss Ts borrowing history  with Mr Lender is as follows:
date £ amount 
borrowedduration of 
agreement 
at the outsetdate repaid
129 May 2014 350 32 days 28 June 2014
221 July 2014 385 39 days 27 February 2015
Miss T says that she was in very difficult personal circumstances at the time of these loans. 
She says that she had many loans from short-term lenders, a county court judgement  and 
defaulted payments  on her credit record. Miss T wants a refund of interest and charges, with 
interest and negative information  removed  from her credit file. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Miss Ts complaint. He didnt think that Mr Lender was 
wrong to lend to Miss T. 
Miss T didnt agree with the adjudicator.  She didnt think that the adjudicator  had taken into 
account any information shed supplied, unlike other complaints shed made against other 
lenders. Miss T said that she was in a debt management plan at the time she applied for the 
loans and had a county court judgement, which would  have told Mr Lender that she was 
struggling financially. Miss T said that she was borrowing from six or seven payday lenders  
at the time. 
The adjudicator responded to say that a debt management plan wouldnt necessarily  prevent  
lending and that Mr Lender wouldnt have been aware of a county  court judgement or other  
loans. He said that Mr Lender wasnt obliged to look for this information, given the number of 
loans Miss T had with Mr Lender  and the amount  borrowed  compared  to her income. 
Miss T said that the county court judgement would have shown on her credit record for six 
years. She said that the adjudicators view wasnt fair and asked  that an ombudsman look at 
her complaint. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, Miss Ts complaint was passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN24337312Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Miss 
T could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Miss T could  sustainably  repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  Of 
course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ts complaint.  
I dont think that Mr Lender was wrong to give Miss T these  two loans. Given  the repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about Miss Ts circumstances  at the time and her history with 
the lender, I dont  think it wouldve been  proportionate for Mr Lender  to ask Miss T for the 
amount of information  needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt  anything  
in the information Miss T provided or the information  Mr Lender shouldve  been aware of, 
which meant it wouldve  been proportionate  for it to start verifying what  Miss T said about her 
finances. 
I appreciate that Miss T says that shes been successful in complaints against other lenders. 
We deal with each  case individually, on its own particular facts. So, success  in other 
complaints doesnt  necessarily mean  that her complaint about Mr Lender will be upheld.  
Ref: DRN24337313Information a prospective lender can see from a credit search  isnt in the same detail as 
Miss T can see from her own credit report.  Ive looked at the results  of the credit check 
Mr Lender carried out. It doesnt  show that Miss T was in a debt management plan, had a 
county court judgement against  her or had other  short-term loans. In the circumstances 
here, and bearing  in mind the number  of loans in this case and the repayments  as against 
Miss Ts stated income, I dont think that Mr Lender was obliged to do more than it did by 
way of checks. Based on the proportionate checks Mr Lender carried  out, it didnt  know that 
Miss T was having problems managing  her money. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders  lending history with Miss T, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should reasonably have  seen that lending  
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. I dont think that the pattern of lending, in itself, 
should have alerted Mr Lender here.  Mr Lender  gave  Miss T two loans  over a relatively short  
period. At that time, there  was no indication that she couldnt  afford  to repay  them in a 
sustainable way. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss T and I dont doubt  that she was struggling financially  at the 
relevant time but, based on what Ive seen, there are no grounds on which  to uphold her 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2433731