K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1998 that 
was amended in 2001 and 2002. Mr and Mrs B say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-
sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The PPI covered Mr B only so I have mainly considered his circumstances at the time.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
YBS had to make  Mr and Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional  and gain their consent 
before adding it to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs B have  told us that they were told they had to 
take the PPI to get their mortgage. I cant be certain what  was said at the time Mr and Mrs B 
applied for their policies,  and there  isnt much  evidence  from the time. But from what is 
available I dont have  enough to say that Mr and Mrs B werent  given a choice in taking the 
policies or that they didnt choose  to take them. 
YBS recommended  the PPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for them. Mr B 
has told us that he was entitled  to sick pay and had savings when he applied  for the PPI 
policies. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Bs sick pay, and for longer. The 
PPI would also have  allowed  Mr B to keep his savings in place to be used towards any other 
essential expenses  he may have had. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Bs circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think it was right for him.  
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because:  
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because YBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN21674722Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have  said - but these points dont  change  my 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs B any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2167472