K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the way Homeserve Membership Limited took payments for his 
landlord emergency cover polices.
background
Mr T had a number of landlord emergency  cover policies with Homeserve. In early  2018 the 
policies were due for renewal so Homeserve wrote to Mr T to outline the new premiums.  
These letters also explained the payments would be taken using 11 direct debits. Mr T 
contacted Homeserve to discuss the renewal of the policies. And it agreed to provide a 
discount to Mr T for these policies. After Homeserve applied  a discount, Mr T agreed to 
renewal of all policies  and the payment plan was discussed.
Mr T complained that the premium was taken as 11 payments (and so 11 direct debits) and 
not 12. He said he previously had this set up as 12 payments.  And Mr T said having  the 
right amount  of direct debits leaving his account  is important  because he receives a 
monetary reward on his bank accounts  as a result of the direct debits he had coming out of 
them each month. So Mr T would like Homeserve to give him compensation for the lost 
monetary award and for not being  given the option  to distribute payments over 12 months.
Homeserve said it had made clear in the phone call and in writing  that the premium would be 
collected over 11 payments. It said because the renewal took place mid-February 2018 it 
didnt have enough time to set up the direct debits starting that month, so started them from 
March 2018 and split the premium over 11 payments. 
Mr T said the paperwork made it seem as though  he had chosen to pay over 11 payments, 
which he hadnt.  Also he said Homeserves explanation about the amount of time it takes for 
a new series of direct  debits to be set up isnt correct, it can be put in place within a few days  
because there was an existing instruction.
An investigator at our service looked at Mr Ts complaint. He said Homeserve had made  it 
clear it would be collecting the payment through 11 direct debits. And so he didnt uphold  the 
complaint. Mr T didnt agree so the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
Homeserve has confirmed it only planned  to take 11 payments, and Mr Ts premiums had 
been split over 11 months and not 12. The key consideration in this case  is whether 
Homeserve did enough to make this clear  to Mr T when he bought  the policy.
When selling  the policy Homeserves  representative  needed to make sure Mr T had 
sufficient information  to decide whether it was right for him, including  making sure he was 
aware of the payment schedule. And, it needed to make sure any key information it provided 
after the sale was presented in a clear, fair and not misleading way. 
Homeserve has explained the policy premium was set up to be paid over 11 months  
because of the date of renewal. The dates and method of payment are important to ensure 
Ref: DRN24606212payments can be collected  correctly and a customer always has cover when they think they 
do. So I think this is significant, so needed  to be drawn to Mr Ts attention when  he bought 
the policy.
Mr T says hes always previously paid in 12 instalments, and hed expected the same after 
this renewal. Having  considered the policy renewal documents for policies set up in 2015 
and 2016, I can see it was confirmed payments would be taken through 11 direct debits and 
not 12. However for the policies set up in 2017  payment seems to have been taken through 
12 direct  debits. So I can understand  why Mr T may have  assumed the 2018  policies would 
be taken through  12 payments. 
Homeserve says the 2017 renewal  was different because Mr T discussed  renewal with them  
earlier in the month so this allowed them to change the payment schedule.  It says it needs at 
least 14 days to change  a payment  schedule. Mr T says this is incorrect and because he had 
previous direct debits  set up so it should only take a few days. Regardless of whether 
Homeserve would have  been able to change the payment  schedule  in that window of time, I 
need to consider whether  Homeserve made  it sufficiently clear  that the payment would be 
taken over 11 payments  so that Mr T could  have raised any concerns he had. 
I can see when the renewal was due Homeserve  wrote to Mr T confirming the new premium 
and that payments would  be taken through 11 payments. This is highlighted in bold under a 
section titled your  payment details.  
Having listened  to Mr Ts call with a representative  from Homeserve I can also hear that he 
highlighted multiple times  that the payments would be taken through  11 payments.  And  
when he went through the first policy he specifically mentioned  these will be taken over 
11 payments instead of 12. And Mr T asked  some questions to confirm the start date and 
number of payments.  So I dont think  the representative did anything  wrong.  I think  the 
representative specifically  mentioning  that the policy premiums  would be collected over 
11 payments means Homeserve fulfilled its obligation to highlight  it. If this hadnt been  what    
Mr T was expecting  he could have raised this in the call or afterwards. 
Homeserve also said it wrote to Mr T to confirm the renewal and payment schedule  after the 
call. Ive seen  system  notes of these letters, so I think  its likely  these were  sent.  However I 
cant say what the exact  content of these was. However Mr T has not told us there was any 
correspondence after this sale that was confusing or misleading.  
So  overall   Im satisfied Homeserve fulfilled its obligations to Mr T when it sold the policy. 
I appreciate Mr T thinks Homeserve needed to do more to highlight the payment schedule, 
but I dont agree. I think by mentioning it over the phone  and confirming  it in writing before 
the renewal and potentially also afterwards, Homeserve did enough. This means  its not 
appropriate for me to uphold Mr Ts complaint, because I dont think Homeserve did anything 
wrong. If anything wasnt correct, Mr T had the opportunity to contact Homeserve and he 
didnt.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Ref: DRN24606213Kinjal Vadgama
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2460621