K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Pendragon Finance and Insurance Services Limited gave him incorrect
information about the nature of the finance  agreement it credit brokered.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint, in the decision  I did earlier this year, which  was a 
provisional decision. However, for ease of reading and so that all relevant information is in 
this document,  I will summarise the background again here.
In April 2017 Mr C entered into a finance agreement for a new car. The agreement  was due 
to last for 24 months. Mr C explained  he had previously taken out several consecutive  hire 
purchase agreements.  This type of finance  suited him because  it allowed him to pay a 
monthly fee for the use of the cars during the hire part of the agreements, and then return 
the cars without any further payment when the agreements came  to an end.
Mr C further explained  that it was his understanding that he was entering into a hire 
purchase agreement  (which he called a PCP) in this instance. He thought this because  that 
is what Pendragon  had told him. Moreover, some of the contractual documentation that 
Pendragon had handed him at the time when  he signed the contract, also led him to believe 
he was entering into a hire purchase  agreement.
Given what Mr C told us above, it was a surprise to him, he suggests, that when he tried to
return the car without  making any final payment at the end of his two year agreement,  he 
was told he couldnt.  Rather, he was told that he had to make  a final payment  to buy the car 
outright. This was because,  unbeknownst  to him he tells us, he had entered  into a type of 
contract (a balanced  payment  hire purchase  agreement), that did not allow  him to return his 
car and walk away with nothing owing. 
Pendragon saw it differently. It indicated that the agreement Mr C signed,  is the agreement  
hed wanted and that it had discussed with him. It didnt agree that Mr C had been misled by 
it about what he was getting. It thought there could have been any number of reasons why 
Mr C had gone for the balanced payment hire purchase agreement  hed signed  up to, as 
opposed to the straightforward hire purchase  agreement that he said he had wanted. It 
pointed out for instance, if he had had a hire purchase agreement he would have paid, at 
least £500 a month more  in monthly  repayments.  Its position is that it isnt prepared to do 
anything further  for Mr C as it doesnt  agree it has done anything  wrong.
Mr C was dissatisfied with Pendragons  response and came to this service.
Once Mr Cs complaint was with us, Pendragon sent us some more  details  of its version of 
events. 
In summary,  Pendragon  agreed that Mr C and it had initially talked  about  a hire purchase  
agreement. But according to Pendragon, when it told Mr C how much  hed have to pay each 
month for this type of agreement  Mr C declined to go ahead.  So instead Pendragon looked  
at different  options  that would reduce the monthly payments but crucially would involve Mr C 
being obliged  to make  a very substantial final payment (£132,277.30).
Ref: DRN22055642Pendragon accepted that it did, as part of the initial discussions, give Mr C a document  that 
explained how a hire purchase  agreement worked.  But it suggested this document was in no 
way connected  to the contract that Mr C eventually  agreed to. 
It indicated it found it implausible that Mr C could have been in any doubt about  the contract, 
given both the rigorous nature of its credit  broking  process and the clarity of the contract 
itself. For example, it told us that the nature of the balanced payment hire purchase 
agreement, was explained, in detail, to Mr C before he went  ahead. It also suggested that 
the agreement  was clear  being written in plain  English. Further, Mr C would have seen the 
agreement before signing it and would have  known or should  have  known by reading it that 
he was going  to have to keep the car and make a very large final payment at the end of the 
agreement. Pendragons position is that it is reasonable to expect that Mr C should  have 
read the contract before signing  it. In any event, by signing it, he was saying that he 
accepted its terms.
Pendragon also told us that before the complaint had come to us, Mr C had instructed 
solicitors who had written to it. In response Pendragon has also instructed its own solicitors. 
Its solicitors had written to Mr Cs solicitors to deny the points Mr C had raised and put 
forward its own. Pendragon thought  we had not put enough weight on the arguments  
formulated by its solicitors. It appeared to think it was very telling that Mr Cs solicitors had 
not responded to its solicitors or pursued the matter further, after receiving Pendragons 
counter-arguments.
Pendragon suggested the formalities that Mr C had gone through to obtain the balanced  
payment hire purchase agreement should  also have  alerted him to what was going  on. 
For instance, it pointed  out that as part of the deal Mr C had provided a statement about his 
net worth. This statement it said would not have been needed with a hire purchase 
agreement. That in itself should have put Mr C on notice, in its estimation. Plus, he had had 
to get his accountant to sign the net worth statement, and Pendragon reasoned that this also 
meant Mr C must have known therefore  what type of agreement  he was accepting, and it 
was credit broking.  
Pendragon added, that after the contract  was concluded the finance  company sent Mr C a 
number of documents that mentioned the balanced  payment hire purchase agreement  and 
hed never  questioned this. This too, it suggested, showed Mr C was well aware that this 
was the type of agreement hed entered into. 
Finally, while  it did not agree it was fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Cs complaint, it 
thought that if we did uphold it, then any redress should take account of the fact that Mr C 
would have paid much more per month  for the car if hed had a hire purchase agreement.
After Mr C had brought his complaint  to us, he let us know that he had made the final 
payment of £132,277.30 to the finance  company, albeit under  protest.  He also told us he 
then sold the car for £95,000.  As a result, Mr C wanted the difference  between  what  he had 
paid the finance company and what hed sold the car for (= £132,277.30 - £95,000).
I issued a provisional decision in which I upheld this complaint in part. This is what  I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
Ref: DRN22055643by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
There is no dispute that Pendragon was acting as a credit  broker in this transaction.  Credit  
broking is a regulated activity which means  that Pendragon has to follow certain rules when 
carrying out credit broking, even in relation to exempt agreements such  as here. As a 
starting point, I think it is fair and reasonable to expect that a credit  broker  should  give clear 
information to its customer so that that customer knows precisely what  sort of agreement 
that he is entering into. But Mr C suggests  that Pendragon didnt  meet this duty and worse 
still he suggests it actively misled  him about the type of agreement it was broking. 
Pendragon suggests on the contrary it explained everything clearly.
What most likely happened when Mr C and Pendragon met to negotiate the agreement is 
key here,  so I have  taken  a close look at it. If I thought that Pendragon gave Mr C incorrect 
information that he relied on to his detriment, in other words  if I thought  Pendragon  
misrepresented the agreement, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Pendragon to put 
things right.
According to Pendragon  its salesman discussed a number of options with Mr C. It has not 
given us a statement from that salesman or explained how the memory of the salesman is 
so detailed especially  given there  appear  to be no detailed notes about  the meeting which is 
surprising in itself.  I say this because Id have expected the process to have been  better  
documented.
I note that both parties agree Pendragon never gave Mr C any pre-contractual  documents  
relating to a balanced payment hire purchase agreement. What we do have is a pre- 
contractual document headed  pre contract purchase which explains a hire purchase  
agreement, this document specifically talks about the return of the car being an option.  We 
also have a document headed Statement of Demand and Needs in which Pendragon 
recommends the type of finance Mr C said was agreed that is a hire purchase  agreement.
If these documents  that I mention above,  did not form part of the contractual  negotiations 
then it is surprising that Pendragon both signed and dated these documents and gave them 
to Mr C and put them  in its records. Pendragon also indicates that the documents  were 
signed before the finance was finalised. And further  it suggests  just because it provided  Mr C 
with documents  that relate  to a hire purchase  agreement that does not mean that it 
ultimately intended to credit broker a hire purchase  agreement. Even though one of the 
documents says we recommend that you take a PCP (i.e. a regular  hire purchase 
agreement).
If I am to follow the logic of what Pendragon  is saying, its stance is that its normal  sales
process is to sign documents before it concludes the deal. That it then gives its customer a 
signed document that is irrelevant to the product it is credit broking and files it. And at the 
Ref: DRN22055644same time, it declines to give a customer a pre contract purchase form that is relevant to the 
actual product that it credit brokered.  Nor does it give its customer  a Statement of Demand 
and Needs that recommends the product it actually credit brokered. If this is indeed  its 
normal sales process, I can see that there is wide scope  for the customer  to be confused 
and receive inaccurate  information.
Moreover, on the one hand Pendragon  tells us Mr C declined the hire purchase agreement  
option because  the monthly repayments  cost too much. On the other hand, Pendragon says 
the same  Mr C who balked at the cost of the monthly payments was happy however  to agree 
that in 24 months  time he would pay £132,277.30 in a lump sum payment. I dont find that 
scenario persuasive.  Especially since they both agree  that initially  at least  Mr C wanted a 
hire purchase agreement,  a key feature of which is the ability  to hand back a car with no 
lump sum payment at the end. So, it seems strange that Mr C would so readily agree to this 
final substantial payment when it was likely he did not have any such thought in mind when 
he entered Pendragons  showroom. The internal notes  from Pendragon I have seen
do not talk about Mr C saying the repayments  were  too costly,  which  makes  me wonder
where this detail came from.
Furthermore, a hire purchase  agreement and a balanced payment hire purchase  agreement 
are two very different types  of agreement. It seems Mr C was not familiar with a balanced  
payment hire purchase agreement. That being so, Id would have expected  the balanced 
payment hire purchase agreement to need  a lot of explanation in the circumstances.
However, if that explanation did happen it is not documented  in Pendragons records. 
Pendragon has not explained why that is so.
As far as I am aware  the sort of statement that Mr C signed about his net worth and got his 
accountant to sign can be used with a hire purchase agreement. It follows  Im not satisfied  
that by signing  this Mr C ought reasonably have been aware he was entering into a balanced 
payment hire purchase agreement.
Id like to confirm to both parties that I have read and thought about all the submissions 
including the two sets of letters from the respective solicitors. I dont think  I have to give any 
extra weight to these  submissions just because they were written  by the parties legal  
representatives. I also read nothing into Mr Cs solicitors not responding to Pendragons 
solicitors. I think  Pendragon is inviting me to conclude that its solicitor wrote such  a slam 
dunk of a letter that Mr Cs solicitors  had no comeback, I just do not see it like that. There  
could have been any number of reasons why there was no response.
For all of these reasons I am satisfied, on balance, that Pendragon did misrepresent the 
agreement to Mr C and that is why he entered into it.
I think Pendragon  is correct to suggest  that in general when a party signs an agreement then
that party can be taken  to have read and understood the document. Mr C does not deny 
signing the balanced payment hire purchase agreement. Although  I think it is implicit that he 
did not read it, which was his choice to make. That said, for all the reasons I have mentioned 
above, I think it is unlikely  that Pendragon did ever discuss the balanced  payment  hire 
purchase agreement  with Mr C. So, in the very limited circumstances of this individual  
complaint, I dont think it is fair and reasonable to say Pendragon can require Mr C to abide 
by that agreement because he signed  it.
Pendragons records show after the contract was made, it did write to Mr C several times 
mentioning the balanced  payment  hire purchase agreement.  Mr C has not said he did not 
Ref: DRN22055645receive these letters.  So, I have thought about  a) whether this was enough, by itself, to put 
Mr C on notice and b) why he did not query  this sooner.  These points however do not impact  
on the question  of misrepresentation because it seems the letters were sent after the 
contract was made. These points only go to whether  Mr C did enough to lessen his losses 
after the fact. Mr C [said he believed]  he had a hire purchase agreement, he is not a car 
finance expert, and I think it is likely he just did not realise the significance  of the words 
balanced payment before the words  hire purchase. I dont find it likely  that he did not call 
this out at the time because he knew he had [a balanced payment hire purchase 
agreement]t and what it meant.
Ive thought about what Mr C would have  done  if there had been no misrepresentation. His 
whole complaint is predicated on him telling  us that he wanted a hire purchase agreement. 
That being  so, while I realise he now says if he had realised what  was going on at the time 
hed have gone away and bought a different car, I dont  find that persuasive. He wasnt in the 
market at the time for buying any car he told us, rather he wanted to hire a car that he could
then return. Further,  he had a history of hire purchase agreements  he says. When  I take 
account of all of this, I think it likely he would have entered into a hire purchase agreement.
Ive accepted Mr Cs version of events about what happened when he entered into the 
contract, is the most  likely. That means there  was on balance, no discussion between the 
parties where Pendragon said the monthly  cost was £500 per month more than he actually 
paid and he said this was too much. In the circumstances I dont think  it is likely Mr C 
would have refused  to pay this much per month.  After all he was the one that went to 
Pendragon looking  to hire a very prestigious  car. Neither have  I seen anything  to suggest 
that Mr C could have  got the car on a hire purchase agreement  any cheaper.  Plus,  I think  
it is fair and reasonable he pay for the use he had of the car. He used  it for 24 months, 
which is a considerable amount of time. I think if he did not pay for this it would not be fair 
and reasonable.
The question is how much should he pay for this use?  At first Pendragon said the hire 
purchase agreement  would have cost £500 per month more. Now without  explaining why it 
says the figure is £1,000 per month.  I see no reason why the first figure it gave would not 
be accurate. On that basis I think Pendragon  can take from the award I make 24 x £500  =
£12,000. But if Mr C had had the hire purchase agreement he would not have  had to pay 
the final payment.  I think he should  be awarded  the final payment, less the amount he sold 
the car for less the amount I have  said Pendragon  can keep for the use of the car. That 
means £132,277.30 - £95,000 - £12,000  = £25,277.30
My provisional decision was:
My provisional decision  is that I require Pendragon Finance and Insurance  Services  Limited  
to pay Mr C £25,277.30 plus interest at the rate of 8% simple per year. The interest to run 
from the date Mr C paid. the £132,277.30 until the date of settlement.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision.
Pendragon sent a detailed response. In summary,  it pointed out I was incorrect to suggest 
that Mr C had paid it the £132,277.30. It also pointed  out that it never sent post contract 
documents (e.g. monthly statements) to Mr C the finance company did. It noted these points 
did not have any bearing on the substance  of the complaint, but it thought  it was important to 
bring attention to these inaccuracies.
Ref: DRN22055646It then went on to make some very specific points about the following  issues:  It said:
That a customer receives documentation  explaining  products they don't subsequently take, 
cannot reasonably  support an assertion that they thought they were  taking the product they 
declined. For instance, Mr. C received a recommendation,  with product explanation 
documentation to protect the vehicle with Asset Protection Insurance but he didn't take it out. 
Mr. C received a recommendation to take out a PCP contract  but chose a different funding  
method instead.
I refer to my previous statement in which I explained  Mr. C made enquiries following an 
advert the business  placed which included a finance  example relating to a Balanced 
Payments Agreement;  the business  made a recommendation  to Mr. C to consider entering 
into a PCP based upon the answers he gave to a series of qualification questions.  However 
initial discussions or any finance recommendations made do not in any way constitute as an 
actual finance  offer or reflect the type of agreement  subsequently explored or actually 
entered into.
Customers decide not to follow recommendations for many reasons; if a customer receives a 
recommendation to take out a Personal  Contract Purchase Agreement,  they are not 
excluded from exploring alternative funding options  such as the Balanced Payments 
Agreement on this occasion however the recommendation is not changed retrospectively nor 
is the documentation changed accordingly; the recommendation remains the same.
As to the credit broking  process it repeated points it had made  before  about why having to 
deal with the high net worth statement ought  reasonably to have put him on notice.  It also 
said the layout  of the balanced payment hire purchase agreement was so different from a 
regular hire purchase agreement that he should  also have known he was not signing a hire 
purchase contract.
It explained it had not taken a statement from the sales person who dealt  with Mr C, it 
couldnt because  that person no longer worked for it by the time Mr C complained.  However, 
it suggested it had proper grounds for asking us to rely on what it said about  this sales 
person and how it is likely he behaved because:
The salesman had worked for the business for a number of years prior to this sale taking 
place and was very familiar with the Balanced Payments Agreement supplied to Mr. C. That 
conversations are not documented  in itself does not mean they did not take place at all. I 
think given that Mr. C said he'd had experience  of entering into motor finance  contracts  
previously, he would have expected to have this particular  finance contract fully explained to 
him before being asked to sign it.
When it came to why it had told us, at first the hire purchase agreement would have cost 
£500 per month and then changed this figure  it said.
As you know I also explained  a PCP product would have cost Mr. C considerably more per 
month, circa  (in the region of/roughly) £500  more; it's clear this estimate  was incorrect at the 
time, but we did not have an exact  figure  to hand since the business  hadn't
applied for a PCP agreement  for Mr. C. They only processed an application for a Balanced  
Payments Agreement  at £1,034.04 per month. [The finance company] subsequently 
provided us with a retrospective quote for a PCP which  detailed  exactly what  Mr. C would 
have paid had he been provided  with this type of contract at £1,969.37 per month. It is clear 
that Mr. C would have  paid £47,264.88 in total and £22,423.92 more than what  he did pay.
Ref: DRN22055647It added that in a sense  Mr C had wanted  to have his cake and eat it too, in so far as, it 
thought Mr C both liked the idea of the reduced  payments that came  with the balanced 
payment hire purchase agreement, but also wanted the flexibility to hand  back  the car that 
came with a hire purchase  agreement.  It suggested that Mr C had made an assumption  that 
the car would be worth  more than the £132,277.30  at the end of his agreement, and when  
he found out it wasnt that prompted the complaint.  Pendragon thought but for this shortfall 
Mr C would never have  complained. So, it was suggesting, by implication, Mr C has not 
brought his complaint to it and us in good faith.
Its clear from its response that Pendragon still sticks  very robustly  to its original stance  that 
it is not in the wrong. But, it accepted the possibility that it would be asked to pay redress 
and in that eventuality it offered us its alternative calculations for the redress:
Even if you disagree with our explanations above  I think it is clear that Mr C says he wanted  
PCP terms retrospectively, therefore I don't think it would be considered  unfair to expect  him 
to pay for those terms retrospectively. Under the circumstances had he been provided with a 
PCP contract, Mr C would  have  paid 24x£1969.37,  a total of £47,264.88  over the term and 
then been able to hand the vehicle back with nothing  more to pay. He actually paid 
24x£1035.04, a total of 24,840.96, and then sold the vehicle for £95,000. If Mr C had paid 
£1969.37 per month for a PCP contract giving  him the security of being  able to hand the 
vehicle back, the net loss would actually be £14,853.38.
Mr C initially, accepted  my provisional decision with it seemed, a degree of reluctance. 
However, on seeing Pendragons alternative calculations for the award he expressed  
dissatisfaction. Moreover,  Mr C rejected the idea that I should  deduct anything from the 
award, let alone  use the new calculation Pendragon has suggested. Mr C then went on to 
explain why he thought anything other than the full amount he originally wanted was unfair.  
Specifically, he reiterated that he had only ever been offered a PCP he explained that at the 
time he had questioned the repayments and was told:
I went  to the dealership due to an advert stating that the car could be leased  for less than 
£1,000 a month.  I questioned why it was so cheap and the salesman told me that it was 
only because it was a two year deal (it would be much more on a 3 year deal)  because  it 
was a new model car they anticipated  very low depreciation  this was explained to me quite 
clearly.  As was the paperwork I was given  which clearly told me the amounts I would have  
to pay and that I could hand the car back at the end if I chose with no balloon payment due.
Mr C also repeated that in his view, the paperwork he sent us backed up his version of 
events. And further  he suggested Pendragon  had given  sent us a knowingly inaccurate 
version of events. And in his opinion it had provided no information  to support its stance. 
He indicated he felt aggrieved because  he entered into what  he thought was a hire purchase 
agreement in good faith. Moreover, he suggested Pendragon had consistently delayed  
matters and are still disputing his complaint, without good cause.
Mr C indicated that he considered that there  were  holes  in Pendragons reasoning. In 
particular he said.
Previously they claimed to have provided  me with alternative pricing and that I made  a 
choice, now they have admitted that they did not have any other price at that time.
Ref: DRN22055648Mr C made  it clear  that he had only accepted my provisional decision to bring this long-
running matter to a close. But given Pendragon have not accepted it and indeed wanted the 
complaint rejected preferably or the award very reduced, he no longer accepts my 
provisional decision either. 
my findings
I thank both Pendragon and Mr C for their responses to my provisional  decision. Ive re-
considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
It is very clear that there are strong  feelings on both sides of this complaint. I recognise this, 
and therefore  I regret that the decision I have come to, might well displease  both parties. In 
that I am going  to uphold this complaint in part, but I am going  to use the new figures  that 
Pendragon has put forward to calculate  the redress. I explain my reasoning  below.
Before I go on to talk about the substance of Mr Cs complaint, I apologise for saying 
inaccurately that Mr C settled the finance  agreement by making a payment to Pendragon. In 
fact, he made the payment to the finance  company.  I also apologise for saying that 
Pendragon sent correspondence to Mr C about  the agreement  after the contract was made. 
This information was in fact sent by the finance  provider.  These  errors made no odds to the 
merits of the complaint, but thats  not the point. I am happy to correct these mistakes here.
Ive summarised, what the parties have said in response to my provisional decision  but as I 
said in my provisional decision, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties and Ive done  so mostly  using  my own words. Im not going  to respond 
to every single  point made by all the parties involved. I ask the parties  to please understand, 
that no discourtesy  is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key 
issues here.
As I have mentioned  before,  our rules allow me to do this. This simply  reflects  the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative  to the courts. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach  what I think is the right outcome
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The crux of this complaint is what most likely  happened when the contract was agreed. 
Specifically, is it more likely than not that the agreement was misrepresented to Mr C.
When I think about what is more  likely  to have happened when the contract was being credit 
brokered, Ive got quite  a lot to go on. One of the key things is the written  documents that Mr 
C and Pendragon have provided to this service.  I think it is reasonable to expect that what  
Pendragon and Mr C discussed during the credit  broking would be documented. In 
particular, if Pendragon and Mr C had discussed  a hire purchase  agreement,  if this was 
declined and then they agreed to a balanced  payment hire purchase agreement  instead, Id 
expect the documents would support this, or theyd be a persuasive  explanation for why not. 
But instead  what Ive got is documents that show that a hire purchase agreement was 
discussed, one of these documents was even signed by Pendragon, I have no written  
documents to show that the hire purchase  agreement was declined  by Mr C. Further, there 
Ref: DRN22055649is nothing written to show that the balanced payment hire purchase  agreement was 
discussed. 
It was up to Pendragon what documents it chose  to keep and file, but why keep and file 
information about an agreement that according  to it Mr C did not take,  whilst  simultaneously 
not keeping an equally careful record of the product that it says the consumer did take and 
the process that led up to this?
Moreover, both Mr C and Pendragon  agree that Mr C initially came  to see it in response to 
an advert. Pendragon  says the figures in the advert relate to a car supplied under a balance  
payment hire purchase agreement. That being so, why were the parties discussing a hire 
purchase agreement  at all, since that was not the deal that was being  advertised.
Further, Pendragons  explanation of what  it suggests the salesman said to Mr C is 
unpersuasive. Just because  the salesman had a lot of experience  of balanced  payment hire 
purchase agreements  does not mean that he (the salesman) discussed this type of 
agreement with Mr C. I accept that Mr C would have expected the salesman to talk to him 
about the agreement he entered into and which it was credit broking. Indeed, Mr C agrees 
the salesman  did talk to him at some length, but Mr Cs position is that the salesman only 
talked about a hire purchase agreement. And the written evidence  of what was discussed 
before the contract was signed, backs up what Mr C says,  as I have mentioned above.
Im not saying that just because a product was recommended  it must  have  been  taken, far 
from it. Rather, Im saying if the hire purchase  agreement was recommended but then this 
was declined why was this not also documented?   Moreover, the format of a hire purchase  
agreement and a balanced payment hire purchase agreement  are not so wildly dissimilar 
that Mr C ought reasonably to have known that he was signing up for something quite 
different from a hire purchase agreement. On the contrary, I think both types of agreement 
look similar  and I think this might have been  especially so to a non-specialist,  such as Mr C.
Despite what Pendragon says, Ive seen  nothing that persuades me that Mr Cs real concern 
was the actual residual  value  of the car and that he would not have complained  if it had been 
more in line with the expected residual value.
Ive not been persuaded by the new information I have received from Pendragon about  
whether the agreement was misrepresented. For all of these reasons, in addition to the 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision I find, on balance that the balance payment hire 
purchase agreement  was misrepresented by Pendragon in the course of its credit  broking to 
Mr C.
That said,  I now need to look at the redress. We asked Pendragon to explain why it told us 
at first that Mr C would have paid £500  per month more for the car under a hire purchase 
agreement. We asked it to tell us what it had based  this calculation on. It told us this.
when Mr C complained to the business,  I spoke  to the Dealer Principal and the Sales  
Executive about  the alternative  funding  options that were most likely explored  for Mr. C. The 
business was unable to obtain  a retrospective  quote  for a PCP product  and it gave me a 
figure of £500  or more (depended on deposits/residuals which  they couldn't access  
retrospectively) in terms of the type of payments associated with a PCP alternative so I 
explained the payment would have been  circa,  meaning in the region of/roughly. £500 more
per month.
Ref: DRN220556410Going by this, the first estimation  was based on the industry knowledge of the Dealer  
Principal and Sales Executive rather than on anything else.  But Pendragon now tells us that 
this informal reckoning  up, albeit from experienced  individuals, gave an incorrect figure. It 
suggests the new figures can be relied on because they were calculated via a retrospective 
quote from the finance company.
In the circumstances, I accept that the new figures  are likely to be the accurate figures.  I 
have no reason to doubt that the retrospective quote is accurate. 
Further, I agree that it is fair and reasonable that Mr C should have to pay for the use of the 
car. And that the amount he should pay should be the amount he would most likely have 
paid if he had taken  out a hire purchase agreement  for the car in the first place.
I acknowledge that Mr C suggests that because  the agreement was misrepresented no 
deduction should be made  at all in these circumstances. But I dont agree, I say this because  
the remedy for misrepresentation is to put him back into, as near as possible,  the position  he 
would have been in but for the misrepresentation. Here, I find that means  he would have 
taken out a hire purchase agreement and as a result he would have paid the increased 
repayments. If I dont take account of this that would be unfair and unreasonable  in the 
circumstances.
It follows I am revising my calculation of the redress to take account  of the new figures as I 
have already mentioned. This means  that Pendragon must  refund Mr C a sum that 
represents whats left when the amount Mr C tells us he sold the car for (£95,000)  and the 
additional amount Mr C would have paid in repayments if he had taken out a hire purchase 
agreement (£22,423.92) is taken off the settlement amount that Mr C paid (132,277.30) = 
£14,853.38. Plus, Pendragon must  pay interest  on this sum.
my final decision
My final decision is that I require Pendragon Finance and Insurance  Services Limited
to pay Mr C, the amount  which is left when, the amount Mr C received for the car, and the 
additional amount he would have  paid in monthly repayments if he had taken out a hire 
purchase agreement  is taken from the final payment Mr C made namely £14,853.38.  Plus, it 
must also pay interest on the £14,853.38 at the rate of 8% simple per year.  The interest  to 
run from the date Mr C paid the finance  company or arranged for it to paid the £132,277.30 
until the date of settlement.
Pendragon must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr C accepts my final decision.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct  income  tax from the interest mentioned above, it 
must send  a tax deduction certificate  with the payment  so that Mr C can reclaim the tax if he 
is able to.
Mr C should refer back to Pendragon if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both
parties should contact  HM Revenue & Customs  if they want  to know more about the tax
treatment of this portion  of the compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2021.
Ref: DRN220556411Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2205564