K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Miss G when  she took out a mortgage in 
2001. The policy was taken out in order to protect  her monthly  repayments  in the event she 
couldnt work as a result of accident or sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint on the basis that Santander  hadnt  provided Miss G 
with all the information it shouldve done. In particular, it hadnt  made  Miss G aware that the 
policy offered her only limited benefit in her particular  situation given that she told us about 
an existing health  condition shed previously been hospitalised for - and which  continued to 
affect her. 
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Gs complaint. The policy provided cover for up to 12 months  in 
the event of accident, sickness and unemployment.  But I dont think  Santander did enough  
to point out to Miss G a significant feature of the policy   specifically, the impact  her health 
problems would have  on the cover shed  get under the policy.  
I think if shed been aware  that she wouldnt have been able to claim for any absence related 
to her previous health problems for at least the first 12 months after taking out the policy  
(and for longer if shed  had ongoing  problems)  Miss G wouldnt have thought it provided her 
with good value. I say this because sickness cover was a significant  part of the benefit 
Miss G bought.  
Ive taken into account that Miss G wouldve been able to claim for other benefits under the 
policy from the start. But I think Miss G has lost out as a result of Santanders failings in this 
case, because  I dont think shed have taken  out the policy  if shed been properly informed.
In coming to my decision I've thought carefully about  what  Santander said in response to our 
adjudicators view. I accept that Miss G didnt initially provide full details about her health  
but I've no reason to doubt what shes told us about  her circumstances when she took out 
the PPI now that our adjudicator has been in direct contact with her. 
As an advised sale, the onus was on Santander to take steps to ensure the policy  was 
suitable for Miss G. Ive taken into account  that Santander says that any pre-existing medical 
condition wouldve been discussed at the point of sale. It says this wouldve formed  part of 
the suitability check on the policy at the point of sale. 
Miss G has also said that her health  problems were discussed with the mortgage  advisor.  
Ref: DRN25684372But I cant see how or if Santander explained the limited benefit that the policy  offered 
Miss G in these circumstances. I think its more likely that if it had explained  that she 
wouldnt be able to claim for any absence from work arising as a result of her existing  health  
issues, certainly during  the first 12 months after starting the policy and possibly beyond  that, 
then I dont think she wouldve wanted to take out the PPI. So I think its fair and reasonable 
in these circumstances to uphold her complaint.
 
putting things right
Santander should put Miss G in the position she wouldve been had she not taken out the 
policy. I understand the policy  is already  cancelled so Santander  should:  
Pay Miss G the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Miss G made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Santander can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If Santander has already  repaid any commission amount to Miss G that relates to this PPI 
sale, it can deduct that sum from the redress shown above. 
my final decision
For these reasons I uphold this complaint  and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Miss G as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2568437