K821x#15complaint
Ms G complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP gave her loans that she couldnt afford to 
repay. She asks that it refunds interest  and charges, with 8% interest, and removes negative 
information about the loans from her credit file.
background
Ms G took out four loans  with Uncle Buck between December 2013  and October  2014.  She 
says the loan repayments werent affordable. She says the loans increased her financial 
hardship and affected her mental state.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He said it wasnt wrong  
for Uncle Buck to offer loan 1. But Ms G struggled to repay loan 1 and asked for loan 2 soon  
after shed finally repaid it. Loan  2 was for a larger amount and the repayment was 
substantial. And shed  three defaults recorded  within the previous 12 months. All this 
suggested Ms G was having trouble  managing her money and Uncle  Buck should have 
known there  was a significant risk she wouldnt be able to repay  loans 2 to 4 sustainably.
The adjudicator said Uncle  Buck  shouldnt  have offered the fourth top up of loan 1 or any of 
the later loans. 
Uncle Buck  didnt agree. It said while Ms G had defaulted accounts the value  was about the 
same as her monthly income and shed  settled three  defaulted accounts. It said it didnt 
assume a customer was struggling to repay  a loan just because it was rolled  over, especially 
if this was over Christmas. Uncle Buck said the income  and expenditure information  Ms G 
provided suggested the loans were affordable and its credit  check  didnt suggest shed have 
problems repaying  the loans.
Uncle Buck  made an offer to settle the complaint,  which  Ms G didnt accept. So the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Ms Gs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN23247502Ms G took out the following loans with Uncle Buck:
Loan number Date of loan Amount of loan Highest monthly 
repayment
Loan 1* 06.12.2013 £200 £269.9
Loan 2 28.04.2014 £400 £540
Loan 3** 29.05.2014 £400 £540
Loan 4 30.10.2014 £250 £337
*loan 1 was rolled over four times.
**loan 3 was originally  due on 27.06.2014. It was rolled over and then repaid in three 
monthly instalments  with the last instalment paid on 26.09.2014.
loan 1
Uncle Buck  recorded  Ms Gs monthly income  as £1,400. Uncle  Buck says the information it 
received about  Ms Gs outgoings suggested  the loan was affordable.  Given  the amount of 
the repayment and Ms Gs stated income,  I think  Uncle  Bucks  checks  were proportionate.  
Loan 1 was rolled over four times.  Good  industry  practice at the time pointed  to three 
rollovers being the maximum a borrower  should be allowed.  Uncle Buck has offered to 
refund the charges and interest related to the fourth  rollover of loan 1, with 8% interest. I 
think this is fair.
loans 2 and 3
I dont think Uncle Buck should  have offered loans 2 and 3 to Ms G. 
Ms G rolled over loan 1 four times.  She repaid some capital on the second, third and fourth  
rollover (£20, £90 and £9 respectively). While there  could be other  reasons for rolling  over a 
loan, one possibility  is that Ms G was in financial difficulties and struggling to make  the 
repayment.  
Ms G took out loan 2 within a few days of repaying loan 1. She requested  loan 3 shortly after 
repaying loan 2. Loans 2 and 3 were  for larger amounts  than loan 1  which Ms G had rolled 
over four times, which could suggest  she had difficulty  repaying it. Uncle  Buck was aware 
that Ms G had defaults recorded on her credit  file, some within  the last 12 months, which  
could also indicate  financial  problems. 
I think this combination  the rollovers, the defaults and the immediate request for a new, 
larger loan  should have alerted Uncle Buck to a possible problem. I think it should  have  
known there  was a significant risk Ms G couldnt  repay the loans sustainably.
Uncle Buck  could, at this point, have made further checks. It could have  asked Ms G to 
provide more detailed information about  her outgoings  and evidence  (such as bank  
statements) to support  what she said. It could  have asked for information to gain a full 
understanding of Ms Gs financial  circumstances. But I havent seen evidence  that Uncle 
Buck did this. And I think  if it had its likely it would have found  that the loans werent 
affordable. In the circumstances,  I dont think it was reasonable  to offer loans 2 and 3.
Ref: DRN23247503Loan 4
I dont think Uncle Buck should  have offered loan 4 to Ms G. 
In its response to our adjudicators view, Uncle Buck said it was aware that Ms G had four 
current short  term loans when she took out loan 4. It said it could  have probed  more deeply 
into her circumstances  given this information.  Ms G entered  into a debt management plan 
soon after this so I think its likely  further  checks would have shown more borrowing wasnt  
sustainable.
However, even without further checks, I think Uncle Buck ought to have known further 
borrowing wasnt sustainable.  The loans offered by Uncle Buck  were  intended  for short  term 
use. But by the time Ms G took out loan 4 shed been borrowing from Uncle Buck  for about 
10 months without a significant  break.  Uncle Buck ought to have realised Ms G had to 
borrow to cover the gap in her finances left by repaying the previous loan.  In effect, Ms G 
paid large amounts of interest  to service a debt to Uncle Buck  over an extended period. I 
dont think this borrowing  was sustainable.
So Im upholding  Ms Gs complaint about  loans 2 to 4. Uncle Buck should:
refund  the charges and interest  related to the fourth rollover  of loan 1, as its offered to 
do;
refund  all interest and charges Ms G paid on loans 2 to 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove all adverse  entries about  loans 2 and 3 from Ms Gs credit file; and
remove all entries about  loan 4 from Ms Gs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Ms G a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Uncle  Buck Finance LLP to take the steps  
and pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2324750