K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that esure Insurance Limited provided poor service to him and didnt handle 
several claims he made on his motor  insurance  properly.
background
Mr R said esure made the wrong decisions about  who was at fault for several accidents hed 
had - and that it had paid other  drivers too much. He said esure hadnt helped  him to make 
personal injury claims or repaired his car. And he said it hadnt paid him enough for the 
personal items that he says were taken  from the car when it was written-off in 2018.
The first accident was in 2015. Mr R reversed into a main road, but he said his car was 
stationary when another car hit it. Later on, esure found that Mr Rs car had caused damage 
to the side of the other car, so the claim was settled in the other drivers favour. In 2017 Mr R 
drove into the back of another  car. esure didnt agree with him that the other driver was at 
fault. In 2018,  Mr Rs car was written-off  when  hit by a truck as he emerged  from a side road. 
As Mr R wasnt happy with the way esure  dealt  with two of these incidents, he complained to 
this service. One of our investigators  reviewed  Mr Rs complaint. She thought  esure had 
acted reasonably. She noted that it had paid Mr R £100 compensation for not telling him 
when the first claim was settled and closed. She said esure  couldnt  dispute liability  for the 
second accident. She said drivers  were  required  by the Highway Code to leave  enough 
space between their car and the car in front to be able to avoid a collision. She noted that 
Mr R didnt dispute liability for the third accident.
The investigator said esure had initially provided  solicitors details to Mr R after the first 
accident. Mr R hadnt followed up on that  but he was then held to be at fault for the 
collision anyway, so a personal injury claim wasnt possible. She thought it was fair for esure  
to pay the other drivers personal  injury claim, as there was supporting  medical evidence. 
She said as the second accident was Mr Rs fault,  it wasnt open to him to make  a personal 
injury claim against the other driver. 
The investigator said esure had instructed its approved repairer  after the first two accidents, 
but Mr R didnt contact  the garage on either  occasion. She noted  that after the third accident, 
the car was written-off and esure paid Mr R its market  value,  plus £150. That was the 
maximum sum set out in the policy for the loss of personal items. Its salvage agent also paid 
Mr R £200, which she thought was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr R said esures  actions  had affected his health.  He said as it hadnt told him about the 
outcome of the claims,  hed wrongly told another insurer  he wasnt at fault for the accidents.      
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
liability
Ref: DRN25277732esures file notes show that its advisors told Mr R after the first accident it would argue for 
split liability. But it wrote to him on 13 May 2015 to say it would  have to settle  the claim in the 
other drivers  favour. As the side damage to the car supported the other drivers account, I 
think that was fair. The notes show  Mr R called esure on 25 May 2015 to query what was 
said in the letter, so theres  no doubt that he got it. 
esures notes also show  that the circumstances of the second claim indicated  that Mr R was 
at fault, so he was told that at the time by esures advisor. Mr R still disputes  that he was to 
blame, but I think esures liability decision was fair. It was based on the accounts of the 
parties and took into account Highway Code guidance on keeping  a safe stopping distance 
from the vehicle  in front. 
esure accepted that it should  have  told Mr R when it closed the first claim, and it 
compensated him for that. I dont think hes shown he was unaware that esure  had decided  
he was at fault for the first two accidents.  And he didnt dispute  blame  for the third accident. 
Given these facts, its not clear why Mr R told another insurer the accidents werent his fault. 
He hasnt said what the consequences  of that were for him, and they may well have been 
serious. But whatever  happened, I dont  think Mr R can reasonably blame esure  for it.  
sums paid 
esure says it doesnt rate its premiums  on the sums paid out on claims. As some insurers  
do, I think its possible it may have some  impact on the cost of Mr Rs future  premiums.  But I 
think the number  of fault accidents Mr R has had is likely to have far more impact. And I 
dont think Mr Rs shown that esure  paid out excessive sums.  
Mr R believes  there was no damage  to the other  car involved  in the second accident, as it 
had a tow bar. But when an engineer assessed the vehicle,  he found it was damaged.  As 
esures approved  repairer carried out the repairs, esure was in control of the costs. Theres  
nothing to show that it paid any more than was strictly necessary for the work.  
Mr R says the driver of the other car wasnt hurt in the first accident. He says a passer-by 
advised him to claim for injuries.  But esure  was faced with medical  evidence  from a doctor 
who was prepared to say in court that the other driver was injured. So I think  esure had to 
deal with the injury  personal injury claim. Theres nothing to show that it didnt keep  its outlay 
as low as it could. It wouldnt have  been in esures interests not to do so.
failure to repair  Mr Rs car 
esures notes show that it instructed its approved repairer to assess Mr Rs car after each of 
the first two accidents.  It seems from the notes that Mr R said he wanted  to delay the first 
repairs until he was in a position to pay the policy excess. As he made  no further  contact 
with the repairer  or with esure about  the matter, I can only assume he decided against 
having the repairs done. After the second accident,  the notes show  that esure asked Mr R 
why he hadnt  taken the car to the garage  for an estimate. He said he was in hospital and 
would do so in due course, but he didnt. In my opinion theres nothing  to suggest that esure 
provided poor service  to Mr R in relation to this issue.
Mr Rs personal  injuries
Ref: DRN25277733At the start esure thought Mr R may not be at fault for the first accident,  so it took steps  to 
help him make a personal injury claim against  the other driver.  esures notes show  that four 
months later the solicitors it had referred  Mr R to said they had no record of contact from 
Mr R. It then emerged that he couldnt  show the other driver was at fault anyway.
As it seemed likely from the outset that Mr R was at fault for the second accident, esure 
didnt send him the solicitors details. I dont think esure could reasonably have  acted any 
differently in the circumstances, so I dont think it did anything  wrong   here.
stolen items    
esure may have advised Mr R to collect all his belongings from the car within  48 hours, 
although I havent seen a note to that effect on the file. But I think  the point is that Mr R cant 
show that most of the items he says were stolen were in the car in the first place. The 
garage and the recovery  agent say they werent  aware of them.  Mr R estimates  that they 
were worth around £800. A replacement  stereo  alone cost £400. He says the recovery  agent  
asked him if he wanted to remove  any personal  items, but he decided not to. He didnt 
mention the items to the recovery agent to ensure  they were recorded  on the job sheet he 
signed. And after the car was written-off,  he didnt try to collect  the items  for over two weeks.  
Given the lack of evidence about  the items Mr R claimed for, I think  it was reasonable for 
esure to pay him the maximum sum set out in the policy  for personal items. esure said 
photos of the cars interior showed  some  CDs or DVDs in the foot well. There was also a 
space where the cars stereo should  have been.  The salvage agent  paid Mr R a further  
£200. It said that was a gesture of goodwill, to bring the matter to a close. Mr R took it to 
mean that the agent stole the items  and was trying to buy him off. But theres nothing  to 
show thats the case. He also thinks esure  should have reported the theft to the police. In my 
opinion, that was a matter  for Mr R, not esure, to pursue. 
From what  hes said, Mr R has had to deal with a number of serious  and difficult  personal 
circumstances from 2015 onwards.  So the accidents and all that flowed  from them can only 
have made  his situation much worse. I sympathise with the position Mr R has found  himself 
in, and I understand why hes distressed. But as I dont think hes shown that esure  acted 
unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2527773