K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Mr P says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint (which includes Mr Ps 
circumstances at the time as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and exclusions)  
arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought  
Barclayss subsequent  offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit share,  was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ps. I havent  set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive too decided Barclays should  have  disclosed  
the commission it received - but that its subsequent  offer to refund some of the cost of PPI 
to compensate for the unfairness caused  is fair in the circumstances. In summary, my 
reasons for not upholding the mis-sale  part of this complaint are:
From  Barclayss records, I can see the PPI was sold to Mr P after hed applied  for the 
credit card account  by post and he was ringing  up to activate  his new card. Weve seen 
quite a few similar  Barclays sales carried out in this way and so we now understand quite 
a bit about how the processes usually  worked. I dont have an actual recording of the 
telephone call to refer to after so long,  but I do know that call handlers were told to follow 
a script when selling this type of cover over the phone. And I think, if followed correctly, 
Mr Ps consent would have been needed for the PPI to be added. I also see that the 
charges for PPI then periodically started  to appear on his account statements where it 
was listed as PAYMENT PROTECTION PLAN.  lf hed not given his consent, I think 
hed have been prompted to ask what the charges were  for. Theres no evidence he did 
this, so I think its more likely  he agreed  to the PPI being added  during that call.
Ref: DRN26882002Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr P as part of an advised sale, so it had to check  
that the PPI was right for him. In my view, the evidence  about Mr Ps circumstances at 
the time,  shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For 
example, he was eligible for the cover and he had only limited other means to fall back 
on in the event of something unexpected happening,  such as losing his job or being  
unable to work. I note he had some,  limited  sickness protection with his job. But the PPI 
could have paid 10% of his existing credit card balance for up to a year if hed needed to 
claim. This would  have been  in addition  to any other means he had. Ive seen nothing  
else that would have made  claiming  for back or mental problems especially onerous for 
Mr P either. So I think the policy  was suitable  for him.
There was nothing  about Mr Ps employment  or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions 
that would  have affected his ability to successfully claim.
Its obviously possible the information Barclays gave  Mr P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it should have been, but as Ive said,  he chose to take it out so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. It wasnt wrong for him as Ive mentioned above, or too dissimilar to 
what he reasonably  thought he was buying  from the information he was likely given at 
the point of sale. It also looks like it was affordable for him so it seems  like it would have 
been useful if something went  wrong.  I therefore dont think  Mr P would have declined 
the policy even  if Barclays could have done  a better job at explaining  things.
Overall, I consider that Mr P would have  still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely he thought he was getting  and I think  the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances. And in those circumstances, I think that he 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event.
Mr Ps representative raised  a number of what I consider to be general  points, which it says 
apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial  Ombudsman  Service  is 
not correctly applying the regulators  rules  and guidance for handling  PPI complaints; these 
policies represented  poor value because  of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover  coupled with a low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith meant  
Barclays should have  disclosed  the poor value and explained the significance  of the 
limitations and exclusions  and the impact  on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ps representative  has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ps particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Ref: DRN26882003Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the commission  it received and 
that Barclayss offer to refund  some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Barclays didnt tell Mr P about the high levels of commission and profit  share paid in this 
case. So taking  into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Barclays and Mr P was unfair  under section 140A  of the Consumer Credit  Act because 
Barclays didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share  in this case  
I dont think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr P because  it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mr Ps representative has made  a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin  judgment  and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint. In summary they have  said Mr P should get back all the money 
he paid for the policy because: Barclays failed to tell Mr P about  the high commission  and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr P wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had they known about  the level of commission and he should 
receive a refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN26882004court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission  been  disclosed; 
and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact  of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr P in order  to remedy the unfairness  caused by Barclays not disclosing the high level 
of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mr Ps representative suggests, driven to conclude  that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Barclayss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given  above.
I think it was fair for Barclays to calculate  compensation  in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some  of the money Mr P paid for his PPI policy.  I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness because it leaves Mr P with the policy Ive concluded above he 
would still have taken  out if Barclays had done everything it should  have  done   but with 
lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Barclayss subsequent offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  costs  (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances,  I do not uphold  the mis-sale element of Mr Ps 
complaint or make any award in favour  of him for this part of the complaint.
However, because  of the non-disclosure of commission and profit  share, Ive decided  that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr P an amount equivalent to the commission  and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable)  if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2021.
Ref: DRN26882005Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2688200