K821x#15complaint
In summary,  Miss T has complained that Everyday Lending Limited  (ELL)  provided her with 
a loan when she wasnt able to afford it. Shes  also unhappy with how an employee of ELL 
spoke to her after she missed a payment.
background
In June 2018 ELL gave Miss T a loan for £2,000  repayable  over two years. It was a high 
interest loan with an interest rate of 199.6% APR. The total charge for the credit  was 
£2,957.92, which meant  the total amount repayable by Miss T for the £2,000 she was 
borrowing, was £4,957.92. The monthly repayments were £206.58. Miss Ts monthly net 
salary was recorded as £1,387. She had several  pay day loans. 
In its response to Miss Ts complaint, ELL said the loan was taken out to repay two loans. It 
also explained that it carried out suitability  and affordability checks on all loan applications. It 
went on to say that her salary was evidenced  from two payslips. It used  the lower  payslip  
figure. 
When calculating the affordability of the loan, ELL said it used 35% of Miss Ts monthly  
income as her living expenses, but a minimum of £500. It went  on to say it had found no 
evidence of gambling activity or unauthorised charges from the bank statements it reviewed.  
A credit search had also been carried out to establish her credit history.  It was satisfied the 
loan was affordable.
Miss Ts concerns were investigated by one of our adjudicators.  He said that Miss T had 
taken out nine short term loans and unsecured loans in the 12 months prior to applying  for 
this loan. He thought  that as Miss T had been using short term credit quite frequently  in the 
previous 12 months,  which combined with her revolving credit,  overdraft, and other 
unsecured loans she had taken out, all indicated she was having problems managing her 
money. 
ELL didnt  agree with the adjudicators view. It said the payday loans were  settled  before 
Miss T approached it. The majority of her lending was to finance  her car. Other credit listed  
in the search was taken into account out by ELL, and she was offered a consolidation (loan).  
It thought Miss T had disposable income  of £570 left, so it didnt agree the loan was 
unaffordable or unsustainable. Even taking into account a deduction  for rent of £80 she was 
still left with enough disposable  income for a 24-month loan. 
In response the adjudicator explained  that he hadnt upheld  the call handling  part of Miss Ts 
complaint. As ELL didnt  agree with the adjudicators view, the case has been passed to me 
for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Ts complaint.
Ref: DRN27215882Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if ELL treated Miss T 
fairly and reasonably when it provided her with the loan.
1)Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss T 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? 
2)If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown  at the time? 
3)Ultimately,  did ELL make a fair lending decision?  
4)Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss T would be 
able to repay her loan in a sustainable  way? 
The rules  that ELL had to follow, required it to carry out checks  that would enable  it to 
reasonably assess,  whether Miss T could afford to repay the loan she was wanting to take 
out. This is often referred to as an affordability assessment.
 
The rules  dont set out what  specific checks it needed to carry out, but it did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think  what  
this meant  in practice, was that the scope and extent of ELLs checks needed to reflect the 
nature of the loan, bearing  in mind things such as the amount of credit,  the interest rate, the 
duration of the loan,  the monthly  and total amounts repayable, and any indications  of 
customer vulnerability.  
The checks  to be carried as part of its affordability assessment, needed to be borrower 
focussed. What I mean  by this is that the checks needed to consider whether paying the 
loan back would cause  Miss T any difficulties  or have any adverse consequences for her. It 
would also need  to take into account  factors such as the amount of money being lent, the 
term of the loan and the monthly  repayments,  total charge  for the credit  and the interest rate 
being charged. This isnt an exhaustive  list. 
And as a result of the above I think a reasonable and proportionate check needed  to be 
more thorough if Miss T had a low income.  This would reflect  that it could be more  difficult 
for her to make the loan repayments with a low income. 
It would also need to be more thorough the higher  the amounts she had to repay, as it would 
be more difficult to make higher loan repayments  on a given income. 
The length  of the loan term would  also be relevant,  partly because  where  the loan duration is 
longer, the total cost of credit was likely to be higher. It would also be relevant because there 
is greater risk of a negative change in circumstances  affecting Miss Ts ability to repay, 
where repayments need to be sustained over a longer period. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about  whether ELL completed  reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss T would be able to repay  her loan in a 
sustainable way.
In summary,  then, the circumstances of this loan application are as follows:
Miss T was applying for a high-cost credit product  which had an APR of 199.6%
Miss T was on a relatively low income
Ref: DRN27215883The monthly repayment was relatively  high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of 
Miss Ts monthly  income (approximately  15%); and even more so considering that she 
would need to allocate this proportion of her income towards her loan repayments for two 
years
The total cost of the loan was very high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of 
what Miss T borrowed.  She was using the loan to repay  other debts, which  suggests she 
was already struggling with existing credit.
Individually and taken  together,  there  are several  risk indicators here. So, I think it was 
important for ELL to have conducted checks which gave it a thorough understanding  of 
Miss Ts financial  position and to scrutinise the information it gathered carefully, asking 
follow-up questions where necessary, before agreeing to lend.
ELL has said it did carry out some checks before it agreed to provide  Miss T with the loan. 
And this seems to be on the basis of carrying out a credit search, checking her May 2018 
bank statement and looking at two of her payslips.  It says it carried out an affordability  
assessment based  on this information.  
Did ELL make a fair lending decision?  
ELL also says it made a deduction of 35% of Miss Ts monthly income for living expenses,  or 
a minimum of £500. Its not clear to me how it has reached these figures,  or why it felt it 
necessary or appropriate to apply what appears to be a standard deduction from Miss Ts 
income for living expenses. And it hasnt explained  why this was a more reliable and 
borrower focussed assessment of Miss Ts living expenses, than scrutinising the information 
it did collect about Miss T.
This is surprising when it has said it did review Miss Ts bank statement. And it seems to me 
that it would  have been more logical to have made an actual  assessment of Miss Ts income 
and expenses, taking into account the information it did have, rather than making 
assumptions which werent necessarily accurate, appropriate or borrower focussed. 
If it had done that, I think it would  have realised that Miss T wasnt in a good position 
financially. I say this because if it had carried out a simple assessment of her bank 
statement, it would have  seen that Miss T had more money going out of her account than 
her salary  coming in every month. The bank  statement shows evidence of payday loan funds 
being credited  to the account  and payments to payday lenders. 
Based on its assessment, ELL says that it thought Miss Ts loan was affordable for her as 
she had surplus income of just over £500 a month. But it hasnt explained  why it believes the 
information it reviewed  supports  that assessment and decision. And if it had examined and 
assessed the bank statement it had been provided  with, I fail to see how to see given what 
this showed; how it could have concluded  that Miss T had surplus income  of over £500 a 
month. 
Taking into account what Ive summarised above,  I cant see objectively how on even a 
cursory analysis of the copy of Miss Ts bank statement it had, that ELL could have 
concluded that the loan was affordable for her. I say this because as Ive set out above, I 
think even the information ELL obtained from Miss T posed  real questions  about her ability 
to sustainably repay the loan.  
Ref: DRN27215884At the very least,  the information ELL had should  have  put it on notice to make further 
enquiries about Miss Ts finances.  In the first instance, the purpose of the loan (to 
consolidate loans) should in my opinion have flagged to ELL that Miss T might well already 
be in an unsustainable  debt position and therefore may well have some  difficulties  in 
repaying the loan.  
Her background of having taken  out a number  of pay day loans in the previous 18 months  
prior to this loan application, suggests to me that she was already having difficulties in 
managing her finances when she sought this loan from ELL.
And I think the history  of pay day borrowing and her relatively low income should  either  have 
prompted ELL to decline  the application or  at least  have alerted it to make further 
enquiries of Miss Ts finances and assess the affordability of the loan for her. So, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont  think ELL should have provided Miss T with the loan. 
Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss T has also complained about  how an employee of ELL spoke to her when she 
contacted it about a missed payment. Ive listened  to the calls provided by ELL. Im satisfied 
that the call handler  asked appropriate  questions of Miss T to try and understand what the 
position was regarding her repayments.  And I dont  think from what  Ive heard that she was 
spoken to inappropriately. So, I dont uphold this part of her complaint. 
Putting things  right 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss T to repay  the principal amount that she borrowed,  
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest  and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt  have been provided to her. So, I think Miss T has lost out and ELL should  put 
things right for her. ELL should: 
a) Remove  all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset.  Any payments 
made by Miss T should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the payments 
Miss T has made total more than the amount she was originally  lent, then any surplus  should  
be treated as overpayments and refunded  to her with 8% simple  interest*  calculated  on any 
overpayments made,  from the date they were paid by Miss T to the date the complaint is 
settled.
b) If there is still an outstanding balance, then ELL should agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Miss T, bearing  in mind the need to treat her positively and sympathetically in 
those discussions;  and taking into account  her current  ability  to repay the loan from her 
present disposable income. 
c) Remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ts credit file as a result  of this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should  give 
Miss T a certificate showing  how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is to uphold Miss Ts complaint about 
Everyday Lending  Limited. 
Ref: DRN27215885Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2721588