K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly  rejected her claim, made under section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974, for a refund of the cost of a holiday rental apartment she 
wasnt permitted to use.
background
Mrs T tells us she booked a self-catering  holiday  apartment situated abroad, with a company  
Ill refer to as S. And that this was paid for through her Lloyds credit card account.  She 
says she was due to arrive at the apartment on 15th July 2018 but her flight  was delayed.
And so she decided to wait until the next day before  travelling on to the apartment. She says 
that when she arrived at the accommodation  she was refused  entry.  Subsequently Mrs T 
says she contacted the local police  and arranged to make a statement about the 
circumstances in which she was refused  entry. And she says shes  provided  this as proof 
that she did try to obtain access  to the apartment. Mrs T explains  that Lloyds has now 
refused her claim. But she thinks she should obtain a full refund.
Lloyds told us that it had considered Mrs Ts complaint under both chargeback" rules and 
section 75. It said in relation to the chargeback  that as the merchant had represented 
(disputed) the transaction within the stipulated time period  it was forced  to re-debit Mrs Ts 
account. In relation to the section 75 claim it said it didnt  think thered been a breach of 
contract or any misrepresentation by S.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 31 March 2020. I said I intended  to 
uphold the complaint and that Mrs T should  be entitled to a refund of most  of her holiday 
rental cost.
Since then both parties have replied and accepted my provisional  decision.  I thank them  for 
their responses. As both accepted it I shall repeat my provisional decision in the final 
decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mrs Ts holiday didnt work out as anticipated and I understand her 
disappointment at being denied access to the apartment shed booked. And that was 
exacerbated when  her claim for a refund  was refused.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  allows a customer to claim a refund  of money 
for goods or services they paid to a supplier  when using certain types  of credit.  In this case  
her Lloyds credit card account. Specific conditions apply to those  claims.  In these 
circumstances, amongst other issues, Lloyds needed to consider whether there was a 
breach of contract by S. A breach of contract might occur if services which  had been  paid for 
werent supplied.
Ref: DRN22500552Its worth  clarifying Im not deciding Lloyds liability under section  75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act. We certainly  take into account  the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we 
decide cases by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires  us to do. What 
Im deciding is whether  Lloyds did enough  in considering Mrs Ts complaint. And if they 
didnt, what else should they now do.
Most of the relevant  facts  in this case arent in dispute. But where they are Im required to 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Both parties  agree that Mrs T paid in advance for her scheduled two week stay at the 
apartment. The total cost was £549.94. And its not disputed that when she arrived she was 
refused access.  There seems to be some doubt as to exactly what  day she arrived.  Mrs T 
states it was the day after her scheduled arrival date on 15 July 2018  i.e. 16 July 2018. 
Lloyds has said it was 18 July 2018.  But I dont think this makes any significant difference to 
the basic issues upon which this complaint is founded.
Lloyds appears  to have based its decision to refuse the claim on the terms and conditions of 
Mrs Ts agreement with S. It suggests  that Mrs T was in breach of these (by her late arrival 
without prior notification). And that this meant B wasnt in breach of contract by refusing her 
entry.
Upon examining  the terms and conditions  I found  the most relevant to be:
1. Notifications  of under 90 days before arrival  or made at any time after arrival regarding: 
reduction of stay - attract 100% charge of full invoice.
4. No shows and early departures, with or without notice are non refundable, those choosing 
not to come  or leave early  are not entitled to any refund.
I cant see anything in these conditions that prohibits either a late arrival  or changes to the 
schedule after arrival. Indeed  section 1 clearly contemplates such  a circumstance. Ive not 
seen any precise definition within the conditions  of what no show"  means.
I consider that the relevant terms are simply directed towards the avoidance of refunds if a 
customer doesnt give advance notice of a wish to alter the length of their stay. Or if they 
simply dont turn up. Neither situation applies here.
I dont think its fair to classify Mrs T as a no show" as opposed  to merely being a late 
arrival. And given shed  paid for the two weeks Im not able to see why she wasnt admitted 
for the remaining part of the booking. It can hardly have mattered to S what amount of time 
Mrs T had spent  in the apartment.
As she arrived later than the scheduled date it was reasonable for her to be refused access  
until her identity had been  established.  But once this had been  done I cant  see any 
plausible reason not to permit her to enter.  By not doing so I think its probable S was in 
breach of contract.  Itd been paid for the apartment for Mrs T to use for two weeks.  And it 
refused to permit this. If she chose not to spend each night there  that was surely  her choice 
to make.
Ref: DRN22500553At best the terms  and conditions are unclear. And given Ive not seen any specific condition 
that states - in the event  of a late arrival - access will be refused, I think  S failed to provide a 
service that itd been paid for.
I find that Lloyds  hasnt dealt with Mrs Ts claim correctly as it hasnt taken all the relevant 
factors into account. And in particular I think the way in which its interpreted the terms and 
conditions of the apartment hire agreement isnt fair and reasonable.
Theres a dispute  about what date Mrs T first arrived at the apartment and was refused 
admission. I think the most probable timescale is in accordance with Mrs Ts letter  to Lloyds  
of 4 November  2018. In which she explains she arrived on 16 July 2018 (a day late) and 
spent two days trying to obtain  information to support  her situation prior to returning on 18 
July 2018. That seems an entirely  plausible timeline which  is supported by the statement she 
made to the police at the time.
As Mrs T arrived  late she cant  reasonably  expect  to have  the first nights accommodation 
charge refunded. But I think  the remainder of the cost, that is 13/14  nights, should be 
refunded in proportion. I calculate this as £510.66.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  this complaint.
In full and final settlement  of the complaint I now require Lloyds Bank  PLC to refund Mrs T 
the sum of £510.66.
Simple interest on this sum at the rate of 8% per year from the date Mrs T repaid the 
relevant credit to the date of settlement  should be added.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2250055