K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont  pay their claim  for jewellery  lost 
or stolen  whilst being temporarily removed from their home.
background
In December 2018 Mr and Mrs Ms neighbour had been having some building  work done 
which caused an oil leak. Their house  became uninhabitable and they had to move  out of 
their home temporarily. They paid a removal company to move their contents temporarily. In 
the course of that move some items  were  damaged  and in particular  two valuable items of 
jewellery were lost or stolen. They reported  the matter to the police  but no action was taken. 
The removal  company  denied any liability.
Mr and Mrs M made a claim to AXA. It had no involvement  in the employment of the removal 
company but considered the claim under the personal possessions  and/or contents removed  
from home cover. Unfortunately in both cases there  were exclusions in the policy.  For 
contents removal there was no cover  for accidental damage or loss to jewellery and for 
personal possessions,  no cover for to items not in their care,  custody or control.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that AXA has shown there  was no cover in 
respect of the loss of the jewellery, so it wouldnt be reasonable to expect it to pay the claim.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M employed and paid the removal company privately so their only recourse 
would be against  that company. As I understand it the company have denied  all liability  and I 
can see the difficulty of proving  such a claim.  The very personal items of jewellery here 
(wedding ring and bracelet) wouldnt normally go with a removal  company. So I can 
understand that they wanted  to claim under their home insurance with AXA.
The policy Mr and Mrs M had covered accidental damage or loss whilst being  removed by 
professional removal  contractors. I think that term is intended to cover  a permanent move. 
But in any event it didnt  cover accidental loss or damage to jewellery. I think it reasonable 
for AXA to apply this exclusion.
As for personal possessions cover, which applies to belongings  when away from home, this 
has an exclusion for items  not in the care, custody or control  of you, or your family. Clearly 
if items  are in the care of a removal company,  they arent in the custody care or control of 
the policyholder.  Ive considered this carefully  and Im aware that Mr and Mrs M might  have 
got different  insurance to cover  this. But thats  speaking with hindsight.  If a professional 
removal company lost or damage items whilst removing  them,  I would expect it to have its 
own insurance against such loss. But this brings  us back  to the difficulty Mr and Mrs M must  
have had in proving the items had been  taken  by the removal  company and that it lost or 
stole them.  Ultimately, from AXAs point of view, it has shown that its policy  doesnt cover  
such loss and I think it fair for it to apply the exclusion.
Ref: DRN28782802my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN2878280