K821x#15complaint
Miss B says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg)  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
The policy was added  to the card when  Miss B took out a credit card via the Egg website in 
2008. The policy cost £0.79 for every £100.00 of the credit  cards balance and in the event of 
a successful claim, could  have paid 10% of the monthly balance for up to 12 months.
 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Egg disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 2 April 2019, a copy of which 
is repeated below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set 
out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 2 May 2019.  Both parties have told us that they had received the 
provisional decision. Egg told us it has no further submissions they wish to make. At the time 
of writing Miss B has not responded despite us sending the provisional decision by email  
and post to the recognised addresses  for her representative. I consider that Miss Bs 
representatives have  had sufficient time to make a response had they wished  to. So I am 
proceeding to my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Bs case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I do not intend upholding 
Miss Bs complaint. I explain why below.
Ive considered the internet screens  Egg has provided. It seems that Miss B had to select 
either Yes to add PPI to her card, or No not to. Egg has said Miss B wouldnt have been 
able to proceed with her application unless  she chose one of these options. Egg says that 
neither answer  was preselected for Miss B so she should have understood this was 
something she could  say No to. So, overall, I think its likely Miss B selected  Yes and did 
so knowing this was something she could have  said No to, even if she doesnt remember 
that now, many years  later. 
Egg didnt  recommend that Miss B take the PPI, so it didnt  have to check if it was right for 
her. Instead Egg had to provide information that was clear  and not misleading so that Miss B 
could decide about the policy  for herself.  
Its possible the information Egg gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been - including the information about the cost of the policy.  But based on what I know about 
Ref: DRN22165332Miss Bs circumstances and the cost of the policy, I dont think better information would have 
stopped her from buying it.
I say this because  Miss B was eligible for the policy, and she wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. In saying that, Ive considered that Miss B told us 
that she had a medical condition. If the condition existed before the policy was sold to Miss B 
it may not have been covered by the policy  if it reoccurred. And that could have been an 
issue for a consumer. In this case Ive noted that when Miss B brought her complaint to us 
she was asked whether  at the time of the sale she had any health problems. Miss B told us 
she had no health  conditions at the time of the sale. Later on Miss B told us that she did 
have a medical condition at the time but that it hadnt cost her any time off work ever. So, its 
not clear to me that Miss B would  have expected  this condition  to be the reason for her 
having to take time off work in the future, for the length of time required to be able to make a 
claim under this policy. And the policy would have  covered Miss B for any medical conditions  
that she hadnt had before the time of the sale and would also have provided help in the 
event she lost her job. So Im not persuaded that Miss B would have been put off the policy 
had she received better information about  the policy. 
And I think Miss B could have found the policy useful. I say this because  Miss B told us had 
good sick pay initially, but after six months  it dropped significantly, such  that Miss B may 
have had to rely on her family to help her make her repayments. But the policy could have  
paid 10% of the balance for up to 12 months  if Miss B was too ill to work, or if she lost her 
job. So as this would have been in addition to whatever sick pay she may have received, 
and as this would have reduced  her reliance on whatever  help her family may have been 
able to provide,  I think the policy could have been useful to Miss B. 
So I dont  think that Miss B lost out as a result of anything  Egg might  have done wrong.  
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Egg will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B, if it hasnt already, because:  
When the policy was sold, Egg expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Miss B about that. 
Because Egg didnt tell Miss B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Egg has to pay back to Miss B any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Egg should  also pay back to Miss B any extra  interest Miss B paid 
because of that.
Egg should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Miss B the difference  between 
what Miss B owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit share  it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Egg should also pay Miss B 8%* simple interest 
if Miss B paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss B can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN22165333I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  from the outset and from both parties  in 
order to decide  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  
done so, I still do not think  that better  information about the policy would  have put Miss B off 
from taking it out. In the absence of any further  points  for me to consider, I find no reason to 
depart from my original  findings as set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
I do not think the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations  Limited 
wouldnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  would have  to pay back to Miss B any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium,  if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  8 June 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2216533