K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about the quality of the furniture she purchased  using a National 
Westminster Bank Plc (Nat  West)  credit  card.  She says it wasnt  the furniture she expected 
to receive and was misrepresented to her. She says that Nat West, as the provider of 
finance, are equally  responsible.
background
Mrs C bought a new sofa, chairs  and a foot stool, in December 2016. She paid for the goods 
with her Nat West credit  card but only a month later, was surprised to find the armrests  were 
deteriorating. On closer inspection she noted  that the goods were  from an Editions range 
and not from the Italia  range she said shed  been led to believe the sofa came  from.
She explained that the sales representative,  at the franchise  in which  she bought  the goods, 
had told her they were  from the manufacturers Italia range but that they had not been 
placed in the brochure yet. She was encouraged that this was probably the case because  
the business advertised itself as a supplier  of the Italia range.
She complained to the supplier but when they didnt uphold her complaint she made a claim 
to Nat West under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act (1974). She said,  as the provider 
of finance, Nat West were  equally responsible for the issue. She wanted her money  back.
But Nat West didnt  think thered been  any tangible evidence that the goods  had been 
misrepresented or that thered been a breach  of contract.  So they wouldnt support Mrs Cs 
claim.
A third party  inspection was organised. The inspector didnt think there was anything unusual 
with the leather variation  or armrest  compression and explained  that this was normal. But he 
did notice that the back  cushion  infills  had moved  and he suggested these  needed repairing. 
Nat West agreed to cover this cost.
But Mrs C was still unhappy  and she therefore referred her complaint to this service and our 
investigator took a look at the evidence. She didnt think Mrs C had provided sufficient 
information to prove  her case. She understood that the invoice  was headed under the 
companys Italia brand  but she checked with the franchise  and they confirmed this would 
always be the case regardless  of the range being sold. The investigator didnt think  this was 
wrong. She thought it was more likely that the description on the invoice would be telling of 
what range  the items were taken  from but unfortunately  the range wasnt stated at all on the 
invoice. So the investigator didnt think shed  been provided with enough  evidence  to decide 
the goods had been misrepresented.
She went on to consider  the quality of the sofa.  She noted that the independent inspector 
hadnt thought there  was anything wrong with the armrests but had suggested the back 
cushions were repaired.  And as Nat West had agreed to cover the cost of this repair  she 
thought theyd taken sufficient action.
But Mrs C disagreed. She said that as the franchiser  sold both the Editions and Italia range 
they should have stated  which one the goods came from and that this shouldve  been on the 
invoice too. She said it was wrong, and clearly  misrepresentation, for the business to invoice 
an Editions model  under  an invoice headed  Italia.  She said if shed  seen Editions mentioned 
Ref: DRN22948622on the invoice  she wouldnt  have proceeded with the purchase. So she asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs C but I dont think Nat West have done anything  wrong  here. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made with a credit card, it might be 
possible to recover the money paid through  a section 75 claim.
This section  of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 says that a finance  provider  can be equally  
responsible for a breach  of contract  or a misrepresentation made by the supplier. 
Im not persuaded theres enough evidence here to suggest the goods  were misrepresented 
or that the contract  has been breached.
I dont think theres any dispute that the sofa Mrs C saw in the shop is the one she received. 
She is complaining  that she was misled into thinking the sofa, she now has, was from a 
different range. 
I dont think the invoice had to state the range  from which  the goods came  from and I can 
understand that the franchise wouldnt necessarily change their name on the invoice to suit 
the range  that was being sold.  
Whilst I can see that Mrs C asserts she was told the product came from a different range I 
dont think it would be fair for me to simply accept this when:
the product  that was delivered appears  to be the same as the one she saw
Ive not seen any hard evidence such as advertisements or brochures that suggests 
the goods were  being misrepresented
the invoice  description doesnt say the product  is from a different range than it is
Mrs C has also drawn our attention  to an Editions badge on the sofa.  Im not sure whether 
that is a permanent fixture but I think its reasonable to suggest that it would have  been  
present on the sofa being displayed  in the shop too. I say that because I think  its unlikely to 
have only been  affixed to Mrs Cs furniture, it seems more likely to be something a 
manufacturer would  standardise on each piece.  And, whilst I understand it may have been 
difficult to see it in the shop, it does suggest  the pieces may have been branded 
appropriately.
Ref: DRN22948623So Im not persuaded that the goods Mrs C received were mis-sold to her.
Im also not persuaded that there was anything wrong with the armrests or leather  on the 
furniture. 
I understand Mrs C expected more of the goods but the independent inspector, who is an 
expert in these matters,  has explained  that the compression Mrs C has noted  in the armrests 
is to be expected and the variation  in the leather grading is also normal.  
The inspector did highlight an issue with the back cushions  and in these circumstances Id 
expect Nat West to be given a chance  to repair them. As theyve suggested they will do this I 
dont think they need to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2294862