K821x#15complaint
Mr R is complaining Covea Insurance plc has declined a claim he made  on his car insurance 
policy. 
background
The facts  of this complaint  are well known to all parties, so I dont intend to set them  out in 
detail. But, in summary, in January 2019  Mr R contacted Covea to claim for the engine  
failure of his car. Covea instructed an independent assessor  to carry out a further 
investigation, but they didnt think the damage  was caused by anything covered by Mr Rs 
policy. Covea also said there were known issues with the model of Mr Rs car due to cylinder 
bores wearing prematurely and causing rough idling, and EGR valves  to malfunction.  
Following this, Mr R arranged  for his own independent inspection of the car. He says this 
engineer concluded there  was evidence of water ingress into the engine, which  he says in 
turn had caused a hydraulic lock of the engine. Covea still didnt think  the claim was covered 
under the policy,  so Mr R asked this service to step in.
I initially wrote to Covea to say that I was minded to uphold this complaint. I said in Coveas 
response to the investigator it said Covea thought the damage  was caused by faulty  
injectors, but I disagreed. I thought of particular note in this respect  was the second  report 
from Coveas independent  engineer which said:
The vehicle did have  previous fuel issue factors which may have contributed towards  this 
concern. However  over-fuelling issues  do not normally result in internal engine  damage.
I thought, all the independent engineers  had concluded that on balance the issues  with the 
engine were down  to water ingress which was likely to have happened  some time before. I 
thought from reading all the reports,  the suggestion was that water had entered  the system  
which has caused a hydraulic lock. I thought further  pertinent  points were made by Mr Rs 
engineer in his initial  report which said:
01 In our opinion based on the visible evidence, we can conclude that at the time of our 
inspection we did find evidence to indicate  that the engine has been  exposed to a 
hydraulic lock.  
02 Water contamination in the induction system  was noticeable  at the time of our 
inspection in the form of staining  to the airbox, even though  the air filter had been  
changed recently.
03 Also, the intercooler  was showing signs of emulsified water and oil traces and 
although unusual, such remnants may still be present  because  of the engines low 
efficiency, due to the compression  issues identified by the repairers.
04 The reported condition of two cylinders being  low on compression, numbers 3 and 5, 
as opposed to the remaining  cylinders,  would be consistent with a hydraulic lock 
developing in service. The cylinders  achieving only 87% and 95% efficiency.
05 The evidence at the moment does support the repairers  theory that the engine has 
been subjected to a hydraulic lock and we anticipate that the oil level increase  being 
reported
10.2 The fault however,  can lay latent for some time in special circumstances  and may 
only become evident as other  deterioration takes place  and often this can make 
finding the point of development very difficult.
Ref: DRN23003922So I was persuaded that, given both engineers had concluded the engine  failure is down  to 
water ingress, its most likely this was the cause  of the issues  Mr Rs has had with the car. I 
said both engineers have also concluded that its most likely this will have happened  with 
water coming in through  the air intake.  
I also considered Mr Rs engineers comment that Hydraulic lock General: Hydraulic,  or 
better fluid, locks often develop if vehicles are driven into flood water, standing water or are 
part immersed and the engine started. The intake on modern vehicles are often positioned 
quite low due to packaging reasons but even in higher designs  are not immune  to water  
ingress if a bow wave develops, for example  on hitting standing  water on fast roads.  Water  
splash which  washes  over a bonnet can easily be sufficient. As little as 100-ml  to 150-ml of 
fluid can be in some designs sufficient to cause  the fluid lock. Taking this into account I was 
of the opinion that its most likely that water  has come into the engine as a result of the car 
being driven through some water. 
I acknowledged that Mr R has said he doesnt  remember driving through  water, but I was 
also conscious that the engineer has said that the water doesnt necessarily have had to be 
that high. And I havent seen anything to show that water could have entered the engine 
through any other means.   
I said I was conscious  Mr R had had the car from new, so I thought it was most likely  this 
damage has happened while in his possession.  I also noted  the car has always been  insured 
by Covea. So I thought the accidental damage occurred while  insured by Covea. And the 
policy covered loss or damage as a result of the above. So taking all this into account,  I said 
I was inclined to conclude  that it was unfair for Covea to have declined  this claim.
So I thought  Covea should  settle the claim in line with the terms of the policy  by, either  
repairing the car, or paying Mr R the cars market value. I was also conscious that Mr R 
hasnt been able to use his car since December 2018. However, I thought  it was necessary 
to carry out an investigation  into this matter.  But I think it should have been reasonably 
apparent following the inspections of the car after the engine  was stripped down that the 
claim was payable. So I think Covea  should have settled the claim then. And, had it done so, 
Mr R would have been able to use the car from then. 
I explained Mr R had told us hed been  using  a smaller car since  the incident. But I said I 
was conscious  Mr R needs to use the car a lot given the mileage hed travelled  in the 
insured car. Mr R also said the car hed been using was also bought  for their sons use, so 
his son hasnt been able to use the car. So, while he has had a use of another  car, I think 
this has been  at a significant inconvenience  to him and his family.
I said I could see Covea  assessed the report on 19 March 2019 and unfairly declined his 
claim at this point. I think it should  have  chosen  to settle the claim at that point. However, I 
was also conscious  that the settlement of the claim would have taken  some  time  i.e. to 
repair or replace  the car. But Mr R has unfairly not had access  to his car for over a year. 
Taking this into account, I thought Covea should  pay him a further  £500  in compensation.
Covea didnt agree  with what I said.  It referred my comments to its engineer.  He said theres 
no dispute the car suffered a hydraulic lock, but the dispute is about what caused it. He said 
in his experience  when  a vehicle drives through flood water  and water  ingestion occurs,  this 
is usually a catastrophic failure, for example the engine stops immediately  and suffers  
extensive internal  engine  damage. But he highlighted Mr R says this didnt  happen.
Ref: DRN23003923The engineer also highlighted  that Mr R had said the car had had issues  with performance 
and the injectors  for some time. 
The engineer said two independent  engineers  had inspected  the car and neither  could  say 
they were able to ascertain if there was water ingress due to the air filter being recently 
replaced. He said the engineers also noted extensive  oil emulsification deposits, so the air 
intake filter was replaced in August 2018,  as he said the customer had expressed concerns 
with performance.  So the car booked  in and inspected, and Mr R asked the garage service 
the car at the same time as this was due shortly anyway. 
The engineer thought  that, if the car had ingested  water prior to this date he would have 
expected the air filter and housing to have displayed  heavy water deposits and the air filter 
would be very wet. But he says the garage  didnt  identify any such concern at that stage. He 
also said, given the oil would also be changed  as part of a routine service  being carried  out 
in August 2018, if such oil emulsification  was in occurrence at that time, this would be very 
apparent to the technician changing the oil, but no such issue  was found or raised with Mr R.
The engineer set out that in his experience  oil and water emulsification occurs over a long 
period of time. But he said, when water ingestion into the engine  occurs,  this usually causes 
the immediate  stop of the engine and the water and oil would not have  the opportunity to 
become emulsified in the way seen in this case.
He thought the emulsification appeared to be heavily within  the air intake and breathing 
system, which he thought  suggested it was more likely condensation built up through 
unburnt fuel or poor breathing, which would not be expected on a vehicle of this age or 
mileage. He suggested this further  highlighted that the engine had some ongoing concerns. 
He thought both independent  engineers referred to this as a possibility and were unable  to 
rule out this as the cause of the current issues.
The engineer said Mr Rs type of vehicle has a very high ride height and he said there  would 
have needed to be a large level of water for water to ingress  into the air intake.
Mr R didnt think the amount of compensation I recommended was sufficient and he wanted  
Covea to refund the following:
1.He said he sold the car back to Volvo  in February 2020 in the damaged  state. And he 
estimated he lost at least £7,000.
2.Legal costs,  including barrister opinion  £1,863.
3.Expert engineer  costs  - £480.
4.Insurance costs  for when he couldnt  use the car  £718.74.
5.Tax costs for when he couldnt  use the car  £168.
6.He says he bought a number of products specific to his car which he says he can no 
longer use  £150.
7.He didnt think £500 was fair compensation to take into account all the distress  and 
inconvenience this matter had caused him.  
I issued a provisional decision in December 2020 upholding this complaint. And I said the 
following:
I still intend  to uphold  this complaint  for the same reasons as I set out in my provisional  
decision, but I intend to award  a different  level of compensation.
Ref: DRN23003924Both parties  have provided a lot of separate expert  evidence and opinions as to what they 
consider to be the cause of the cars  engine failure. I think the key starting  point is to think  
about what the policy covers and this says Mr R is covered for loss of or damage to his car 
caused by accident or malicious damage. 
Covea suggests  the engine failure is down to a mechanical failure. Mechanical damage 
would be considered accidental damage  but the policy excludes any damage  arising  from 
mechanical damage. However, I think it was for Covea to show that an exclusion  clause  
applies  its not for Mr R to demonstrate it didnt apply.
I have considered the statements Coveas  engineer  has made about why he thinks the 
hydraulic lock has occurred because of a mechanical failure. However,  Ive paid particular 
attention to the reports carried out by the independent engineers. And both engineers have 
concluded that in their opinion the failure was down to water ingress.
Im also conscious, Mr Rs independent engineer said water contamination in the induction  
system was noticeable at the time of our inspection  in the form of staining to the airbox,  even 
though the air filter had been changed  recently. So I disagree theres no evidence  of any 
form of water ingress/contamination.
Coveas engineer has provided  a detailed explanation of why he doesnt  think the damage 
was down to water ingress,  but was due to a long running mechanical failure.  But Im not 
persuaded hes provided anything sufficient to show there was a mechanical  defect  of the 
car or what this defect  was other than his own opinion. However, I am persuaded by the fact 
two separate independent engineers have concluded this failure was most likely  down  to 
water ingress. So I dont think Covea has given enough to support its belief that this was 
down to a manufacturer defect.
So, taking everything  into consideration I think it was unfair for Covea to have declined this 
claim. 
what Covea should do to put things  right
Mr R sold the car in its damaged state in February 2020, so theres no doubt he would have 
suffered a loss as a result  of the damage incurred. I also dont  think he would  have sold the 
car had the damage not been there. So I think Covea should pay him the cars  market value 
as of the date he sold it  less the amount he received for it. It should also pay 8% simple  
interest on this amount  from the date he sold the car until Covea settles  the claim.
Mr R has also raised a number of consequential  losses hes incurred. In thinking about 
whether Covea should refund these,  Ive thought about whether  they were  a loss he wouldnt 
have incurred had the claim been  settled. Ive also thought about whether the losses were 
reasonably foreseeable or could  have been avoided.
Mr R wants Covea to refund the legal costs he incurred. But this service is a free service to 
Mr R and he didnt need to incur these costs.  I dont think I can reasonably say that these 
are losses  he inevitably  incurred as a result of what  Covea did wrong.  So I dont think  it 
needs to refund these costs. 
However, I do think it was fair for him to request independent engineer  inspections  of the car 
and I think these are reasonably foreseeable losses. So I do think Covea should refund the 
costs Mr R incurred in arranging the engineer reports  subject to him providing  evidence of 
Ref: DRN23003925him incurring  these costs.  Covea should  also pay 8% simple interest on this from the date Mr 
R paid the invoices until he gets it back.
Mr R wants Covea to refund the insurance  and tax costs he incurred  while he couldnt use 
the car. But I think he was always going  to incur these costs,  even  if Covea had settled the 
claim sooner. So I dont think Covea needs to refund these.
Ive thought about Mr Rs comment that he lost out on the use of the products he bought for 
the car. But Im conscious hed travelled around 35,000 miles in the car since  he acquired it. 
So I think hes had use of these products,  so I dont think Covea needs to refund this.
I note Mr R says £500  isnt sufficient compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  this 
matter has caused.  And Ive thought  about all the reasons why he thinks its insufficient.  
Theres no dispute this matter has been distressing to Mr R. But I also have to take into 
account that a large part of this is down  to the nature  of the claim  and the complexities of 
resolving it. So I dont  think all the distress and inconvenience Mr R has suffered is down to 
what Covea did wrong. Ultimately, Im satisfied  £500 is a fair amount  of compensation for 
whats happened.
Mr R didnt agree with the compensation I awarded and raised a number of points that he 
wanted me to consider. In summary  he said the following:
1.He thinks the value of the car, should  be based on its value on the date the claim  was 
reported to Covea, not on the date he sold it.
2.He maintains  Covea  should refund his legal costs. He said he felt he had no choice but to 
seek legal advice  to respond to Coveas  position and the investigators initial opinion. He 
says it was only on receipt of the legal advice that the investigator changed their opinion.
3.He thinks claims of this nature should  be recorded as non-fault.
4.He maintains  the level of compensation isnt sufficient for the amount of disruption, stress, 
anxiety, and time he said hes spent in dealing  with this issue. 
Covea didnt respond to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has made any further  submissions on my decision to uphold  this complaint, so 
I see no reason to reach a different conclusion in respect to this. So I uphold  this complaint 
for the reasons I set out in my provisional  decision. 
Ive considered Mr Rs additional  comments in respect to the redress I awarded, but Ive 
come to the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
Mr R thinks the valuation  should be based  on the date of claim and I can understand why 
hes said this. But, under the terms of the contract, I think Covea would have looked to settle  
the claim by repairing the car. And, had it done so, Mr R would have received the car back to 
use. So the claim wouldnt have been settled by paying Mr R the market value of the car. 
Due to the length of time that had passed,  Mr R wasnt willing to keep the car in a damaged 
state. And I can understand why he thought as such, so he sold it in its damaged state. The 
issue for me to decide is what Mr Rs actual loss was as a result of Covea not settling the 
Ref: DRN23003926claim. And I think that loss is the difference between the retail value of the car in good 
condition at the time he sold it and the amount he sold it for. So I still think  this is a fair way 
to redress this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Rs comments in respect to the legal costs,  but Im satisfied my provisional 
decision sets out why I dont think Covea is required to refund these costs.  Mr R was free to 
refer his complaint  to this service as a free service and theres no need to use legal 
representatives to do so. Covea referred  Mr R to this service one month after he reported 
the incident. So Mr R was aware  he could  have referred it to us without charge and he did 
so. This service operates  on an informal basis and I dont think there  was a need to use a 
solicitor to pursue  his complaint through this service. So I dont think its fair to require Covea 
to refund this cost.
Mr R says the claim should be recorded as a non-fault claim. Insurers generally categorise 
claims as No Claims Discount allowed  (sometimes  referred  to as non-fault) or disallowed  
(sometimes referred to as fault). Claims are recorded as allowed where a claim is made 
and the insurer  recovers its outlay from a third party  who was at fault for the loss. So, Covea 
would only be able to treat this claim as No Claims Discount  allowed  if it can recover the 
claim outlay  from a third party. But there  isnt a third party to recover this from, so its right to 
treat the claim as No Claims Discount  disallowed.
I appreciate Mr R doesnt agree with the level of compensation I awarded for the distress 
and inconvenience  hes suffered is sufficient.  But he hasnt given me anything else to think 
about in respect  to this. And Im satisfied my provisional  decision  sets out why I think the 
compensation I awarded is fair. So I see no reason to reach a different  conclusion in this 
respect.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Covea Insurance plc to do the following:
1.pay Mr R the cars market value as of the date he sold it  less the amount he received 
for it. It should also pay 8% simple  interest on this amount  from the date he sold the car 
until Covea settles the claim*;
2.refund  the costs  Mr R incurred in arranging the engineer reports   subject to him 
providing evidence  of incurring these costs.  Covea should also pay 8% simple interest 
on this from the date Mr R paid the invoices until he gets it back*; and
3.pay £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
him.
*If Covea  thinks that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from this 
interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken  off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2021.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2300392