K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Mr P complain  that U K Insurance  Limited  declined a claim under their property  
owners insurance policy.
background
Mr P and Mr P had a property owners  insurance  policy with U K Insurance  Limited (UKI). 
This covered a property to which they owned  the freehold.  A number of leaseholders lived at 
the property.
In July 2016, Mr P and Mr P made a claim relating to an ingress of water through the roof in 
May 2016. In June  2016, before making  the claim, Mr P and Mr P had temporary repairs 
carried out to the roof to make it watertight until more  lasting  repairs  could be carried  out.
UKI declined  this claim on the basis the roof had deteriorated over time and the damage was 
caused by wear and tear. There were no storm conditions in the area at the relevant time. 
They made Mr P and Mr P aware  of their decision in early January 2017. 
In late February 2017, a storm caused  further damage to the property.  Again, the issue was 
water ingress through the roof. Mr P and Mr P made a further claim. And again, they had 
temporary repairs carried out to the roof.
Again, UKI declined  the claim for repair to the roof  in July 2017. 
In late June 2017 contractors engaged by Mr P and Mr P had begun permanent  repairs to 
the roof. These were  completed about four weeks later.
In July 2017, a week  after UKI declined the claim  relating to the storm in February 2017, 
Mr P and Mr P made a further  claim, for damage caused to the property after a further 
ingress of water. This was declined by UKI around  two weeks later.
Mr P and Mr P have made complaints to UKI about their decisions to decline the various 
claims. When UKI maintained their position, Mr P and Mr P brought  their complaint to us.
An ombudsman has already made  a decision that we cant  look into the complaints Mr P and 
Mr P want  to make to us about the earlier  claims  - after the incidents  in May 2016 and 
February 2017. 
Weve explained  why that is, but to summarise,  Mr P and Mr P brought those complaints to 
us more than six months after theyd had a final response from UKI. And the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  rules which govern the way we work say a complaint must be 
brought to us within six months of the final response from the business.
Our investigator looked into Mr P and Mr Ps remaining complaint - about UKI declining the 
claim made in July 2017  which had been  brought to us in time. He didnt think UKI had 
done anything  wrong.
Mr P and Mr P disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  
Ref: DRN22309112my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P and Mr Ps policy covers damage  to their property. But it contains an exclusion  which  
says that UKI will not carry out or pay for repairs where the damage  is a result of gradual 
deterioration or wear  and tear.
As Ive already  said, its not for me to look into the claim  decisions relating to the incidents in 
May 2016 and February 2017,  but the history  does inform my view of the decision to decline 
the latest claim in July 2017.
I dont think theres any dispute that UKI had told Mr P and Mr P  at the latest by January 
2017 - that in their view, the roof was in a state of disrepair at the time of the first incident  in 
May 2016.
Theres no dispute either that Mr P and Mr P had temporary repairs  carried out in June 2016 
and again in early March  2017. Everyone agrees that these  repairs  were temporary. By 
definition, they were not a suitable long-term  solution to keeping  the property watertight  as 
the storm in February  2017 proved beyond any doubt.
Mr P and Mr P say they didnt have more lasting  repairs carried out sooner  because they 
were awaiting  UKIs  decision on the claim  until January 2017  and were  then effectively  in 
dispute with UKI about the outcome and made the further claim in February 2017. They say 
they have a duty to their leaseholders not to incur cost for them when repairs  may be paid 
for through  the insurance policy.
Their view is that it was reasonable to have temporary repairs carried  out in June 2016. And 
not to commission  permanent repair until late June 2017.
It seems  to me entirely clear  and I dont think theres any dispute about this  that Mr P 
and Mr P knew by early January 2017  that UKI werent going to pay for repairs to their roof. 
And this was on the basis of expert  reports which said the roof was in a state of disrepair in 
May 2016.
If Mr P and Mr P had had effective and lasting permanent repairs carried out in May 2016 
(when they knew or shouldve known the damage  hadnt been caused by a storm) or in 
January 2017  (when UKI confirmed that), then none of the subsequent issues  in late 
February 2017 and in July 2017 - would have occurred. The repairs took four weeks to carry 
out.
Mr P and Mr P say they were waiting for UKIs decision until January 2017 and were then in 
dispute with UKI over their decision. But it would  have been possible to have repairs  carried 
out  and costs  incurred   on the basis that these would be reimbursed if Mr P and Mr P 
subsequently effectively won their argument with UKI.
If I can turn back to the policy  now, this says UKI will not cover damage  caused by wear  and 
tear. But that exclusion is followed by a clause which says: 
 this will not exclude subsequent damage  which results from a cause  not 
otherwise excluded by this policy. 
Ref: DRN22309113Mr P and Mr P have suggested this means UKI should cover damage caused to the inside  of 
the property by the ingress of water  in July 2017. Although the ultimate cause of the problem 
with the roof may have  been wear and tear  which would  mean  UKI arent liable for repairs  
to the roof itself  the subsequent  damage,  to the inside of the property, should be covered.
That clause might appear slightly odd, but something like it is included in many  buildings  
insurance policies.  And it means that an insurer will cover damage  when, for example, 
rainwater comes through a roof which is in a state  of disrepair and causes internal damage, 
where the policyholder couldnt  reasonably have known that there was an issue  with their 
roof. 
In those cases, the insurer wont  pay for repairs to the roof  which hasnt  been  damaged  by 
an insured peril and was always  going to need  repair or replacement  due to age and/or 
gradual deterioration. But they may cover the subsequent internal damage.
So, a natural reading of this clause in the UKI policy suggests they wont  pay for repairs to 
the roof if it has wear  and tear, but they may pay for subsequent damage if thats not 
excluded for another reason set out in the policy.
However, the policy also sets out a series of conditions. One of these is headed 
Reasonable Precautions . And this says the policyholder must:
a.   Take all reasonable  precautions to prevent or minimise loss, destruction, 
damage, accident or injury.
b.   Maintain the Premises in a good  state of repair.
Im satisfied UKI are entitled to decline the July 2017  claim on that basis.  Ill explain why.
In May 2016, Mr P and Mr P knew they had a problem with their roof. Theyd experienced an 
ingress of water during normal rainfall,  not as a result  of a storm. They carried  out only 
temporary repairs  by definition, not a lasting and effective permanent  repair.
By January 2017 at the latest,  Mr P and Mr P were  aware UKI were declining  their claim  
on the basis that the roof was in a state  of disrepair due to gradual deterioration by May 
2016. UKIs decision was  as Mr P and Mr P knew  backed by expert  reports following 
inspection of the roof.
They still chose not to carry out a permanent and lasting repair. And, reasonably predictably, 
suffered another ingress of water during the next period of very bad weather. And again, 
they chose not to carry out an effective permanent repair. 
In my view, it wouldnt be reasonable or fair, against  that background, to expect UKI to pick 
up the bill for the damage when there was a further  ingress of water in July 2017. In short, 
UKI cant be held responsible for the outcome of decisions made by Mr P and Mr P about 
when and how to repair their roof. At the very least, not after early  January 2017, when UKI 
had made  absolutely clear their position on the cause of the damage in May 2016.
Ref: DRN22309114As Ive explained, this decision only relates to the claim in July 2017. I dont think  Mr P and 
Mr P took reasonable precautions to prevent further  damage when  they chose only to carry 
out temporary repairs in March 2017. Earlier temporary repairs  had failed to keep the 
property watertight. And by then it was clear  UKI werent  going  to cover repairs to the roof 
and theyd explained why.
So I think UKI were justified in declining the July 2017 claim, not on the basis  of the wear  
and tear exclusion but because Mr P and Mr P didnt comply with the policy condition that 
said they must take reasonable precautions  to prevent or minimise  damage to their property. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 May 2020
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2230911