K821x#15complaint
Ms O has complained that, because she relied  on advice from Sequence (UK) Limited, a 
representative of Connells  Limited (and referred  to here as Connells) about the timeframe 
within which  she could port her mortgage,  she incurred an Early Repayment Charge (ERC). 
She is asking Connells  to reimburse  her.
background
The facts  can be summarised  quite briefly. Ms O had a joint mortgage  with a third party.  
They were  selling the property and Ms O wanted  to port the concessionary interest  rate 
product onto the mortgage she was taking  out in her sole name  on her new property. The 
interest rate product  came  with an ERC of 3% of the capital  balance  repaid during the 
concessionary period.  
Ms O spoke to Connells on 9 May 2018  and explained the situation. She made it clear  to 
Connells on 26 June 2018 that she wanted  to avoid paying the full ERC.  Most lenders will 
agree to waive or refund the ERC if the mortgage product is ported onto a new property, 
subject to meeting  the lenders criteria. This was the position with Ms Os mortgage.
Ms Os existing  property was sold on 27 June 2018.  The amount on which  the redemption 
figure was charged  was £257,854.61,  giving an ERC of £7,735.64.
Ms O had already found a property to buy but unfortunately the property  didnt meet her 
lenders criteria. Ms O needed to find a new property but was anxious to avoid the full ERC. 
Ms O was borrowing less than the previous  mortgage balance, so she knew would not be 
reimbursed of the full amount of the ERC paid on redemption,  but the refund would be fairly  
substantial. 
Ms O asked Connells how long she had to port the mortgage. In an email  from Connells to 
Ms O dated 4 July 2018 Connells confirmed there was no time limit within  which she could 
port her mortgage.
Ms O found another property which met her lenders criteria.  The purchase completed  on 
14 November 2018. She borrowed  £216,750, which is £41,104.61 less than the capital 
balance repaid on the previous mortgage. 
So, out of the ERC  of £7,735.64 Ms O knew shed have to pay an ERC of £1,233.14  which  
is 3% of £41,041.61. But she was expecting a refund  of £6,502.50.
After completion Connells  asked Santander  about  the refund of the ERC.  Santander  said 
that, because  completion  of the new mortgage had been more  than 90 days after 
redemption of the previous mortgage, no refund of the ERC was due.
Ms O was very unhappy  about this and complained  to Connells. Ms O emailed the adviser at 
Sequence and said that shed specifically been told by her that there was no time limit. The 
adviser denied  having said this and when she reported the complaint to Connells said This 
customer is claiming that Ive misinformed them and is clearly  unhappy. This is categorically 
not the case .
In its response to the complaint Connells complaint handler said to Ms O that she couldnt 
know what Ms O had been told by the adviser,  because she hadnt been  present. But she 
Ref: DRN27999982was satisfied that the adviser couldnt  have foreseen the length of time it would  take to 
complete the transaction. Because  of this, the complaint was rejected.
Ms O brought her complaint to us where an investigator looked at it. He thought  it should  be 
upheld. He was satisfied that Ms O had been  told there was no time limit to complete the 
transaction. He thought that, if shed been  told there was only 90 days from 27 June 2018, 
Ms O would have taken steps to ensure her new purchase was completed on time. He 
asked Connells to compensate Ms O for the ERC  shed have received 
Connells disagreed  with the investigators findings.  In summary, Connells says:
by the time the adviser  told Ms O on 4 July 2018  that there was no time limit to port 
the mortgage, shed already redeemed it (on 27 June 2018), so the clock  was ticking;
even if the adviser had stated in bold letters that the time limit was 90 days, there is 
no guarantee Ms O could have met that deadline;
although Ms O has suggested shed have  put more pressure on solicitors  to 
complete the transaction, there  is no evidence to suggest  this would have been 
successful.
as such, it is denied that Ms O incurred the full ERC as a result of an error on the part 
of the adviser.
Because the investigators findings  werent  accepted, the complaint has been  referred  to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.  I think  the complaint should be 
upheld.
First, I think it is somewhat disingenuous  for Connells to suggest that it couldnt have known 
what Ms O was told by the adviser about  the time limit to port the mortgage. I say this 
because the adviser  confirmed  in an email that there  was no time limit. And its disappointing 
that the adviser disputed shed ever misadvised  Ms O, when the incorrect advice was given 
in writing. 
It is recorded throughout the documentation  that Ms O was keen to avoid paying  the full 
ERC, and the adviser was aware  that this was a major concern of Ms Os and the reason  
why she stayed with her existing lender. 
Ive noted that the redemption statement sent by the lender to the solicitors refers to a 
3-month period within which the ERC can be refunded after redemption  of the mortgage. But 
that is a letter between the lender and solicitors,  and its neither address nor copied  to Ms O. 
So there is no reason  why Ms O would have seen  that letter. In any event, the only party she 
was asking to advise her about the ERC was Connells.
The legal position is that, where Ms O specifically requests advice about the time limit to 
port, Connells  is under  a duty of care to ensure that the advice she is given about this is 
correct. But the advice Connells gave in response to Ms Os specific  request about the time 
limit to port was not correct. Im satisfied Ms O could not have known the advice was wrong.
Ref: DRN27999983Relying in good faith on this incorrect advice, Ms O proceeded on the basis  that there was 
no time limit to port the mortgage. She is not an expert in these matters,  and so she was 
entitled to take the advice shed been given as being  accurate and act on it accordingly. 
Connells says that, even if the adviser  had drawn the time limit to Ms Os attention, theres  
no evidence that she would have been able to complete her new purchase  on time. There is, 
of course, no evidence  because  Ms O at no time was told there was a time limit. So there 
is no reason why shed  be pressing the solicitors to complete by 27 September 2018.
I also note that the adviser was chasing the lender for the refund of the ERC after completion 
of Ms Os new mortgage (which was in November 2018). This is at odds  with Connells 
contention that the adviser knew, and had made  clear to Ms O, that the window to port was 
only 90 days from 27 June 2018. I think the adviser made a mistake  and gave Ms O the 
wrong advice. It is disappointing that, in the face of written evidence  of the advisers  mistake,  
Connells was unwilling to acknowledge the error or its impact on Ms O.
Taking everything into account,  I think it is more likely than not that if Ms O had been given 
the correct advice about the porting window she would have taken the necessary steps to 
ensure the purchase was completed  within 90 days of redemption. I say this because Ms O 
had already found her new property by early  July 2018. Furthermore, I think, given that she 
works in a profession  where she had several weeks free time over the summer  months  of 
2018, it is more  likely than not that Ms O would have  been able to ensure her purchase 
would be completed  by 27 September 2018, if only shed  known there  was a deadline she 
needed to meet.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied the complaint should be upheld.  But the redress Ive 
reached is slightly different from that stated by the investigator, but by a very small amount.
The redress  I have calculated is made up as follows:
Redemption figure                  £257,854.61 x 3% = £7,735.64
New mortgage                        £216,750.00  x 3% = £6,502.50
                                    __________              
               
 £41,041.61 x 3% = £1,233.14
So Connells  is ordered  to reimburse Ms O the difference between the ERC she actually paid 
of £7,735.64 and the ERC  she should have paid (£1,233.14) had she completed her new 
mortgage by 27 September  2018. That is a figure of £6,502.50. Connells is also ordered to 
pay interest on £6,502.50  from 14 November 2018  (the date the ERC was incurred) to the 
date of payment  by Connells.  Because Connells actions have caused Ms O distress, trouble 
and upset, Connells  must also pay Ms O £250 compensation for this.
Ref: DRN27999984my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Connells Limited  must  
pay to Ms O the following:
£6,502.50  for the refund of the ERC;
interest on £6,502.50  from 14 November 2018 to the date of payment at 8% p.a. 
simple*
compensation for trouble  and upset of £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
* If Connells Limited considers  that it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award it may 
do so, but it must give Ms O the necessary tax certificate  so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if she is entitled 
to do so.
Ref: DRN2799998