K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax expected her first mortgage 
payment within  a week of her moving home and did not give her notice  or treat her fairly.
background
Mrs S took a mortgage from Halifax which was recommended by her broker. The funds were 
drawn on 23 November  2018. Mrs S says she expected the first mortgage payment was 
going to be taken at the end of December 2018  or in early January  2019. But on 30 
November 2018  she says she received a letter from Halifax saying that the first payment 
was due on 3 December 2018.  
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-Mrs S was correctly charged interest from the date the mortgage was drawn. 
-Her broker would have been responsible  for inputting the date in each month when she 
would make  mortgage payments. 
-Halifax wrote to Mrs S to tell her when the first payment would be collected  and this 
letter was sent on 24 November 2018.  He thought that it technically gave her four days 
notice of the payment.
-Mrs S complained  to Halifax  on 24 November 2018. He thought it reasonable that the 
direct debit  date was not changed  while the complaint  was being reviewed. Halifax  then 
said Mrs S could  make a manual payment in December  2018  by the fifteenth of the 
month. And it amended future payments to the twenty eighth of the month without any 
impact on her credit file.
-He appreciated that this second payment would also then be higher than the rest of the 
payments to reflect  the interest to that date. But this was the fair result of the change.
Mrs S did not agree.  She insisted that her broker had given her different information  about 
when she would need to start making payments. Halifax did not give her sufficient  time.  Its 
letter about  the payments was not posted until 26 November 2018 and was sent second 
class post. There was no way she could receive this four working days in advance.  The 
mortgage offer said that payment would be made  the month after.  She was not happy to 
accept notice made on a technicality given the impact this had for her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has asked  me to look specifically  at her mortgage offer and so Im going to quote  
some relevant extracts from that as follows:
Your first payment is collected the month  after your mortgage starts. For example, if your 
loan is released  in June, your first payment will be collected in July.
Ref: DRN20431612Your first payment is collected  on the day you choose unless we havent  been able to give 
you enough notice  to collect it. We write to you when the mortgage starts to tell you when we 
will collect  your first and subsequent payments
If there are any changes to the amount, date or frequency of your Direct Debit Halifax  will 
notify you four working days in advance of your account being debited or as otherwise 
agreed
And Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of the mortgage  (part 1 page  9) and the 
relevant part of this is as follows:
..Well collect  your first payment on the day you choose except where there  are fewer than 
four bank working days between when we release your loan and your chosen payment date. 
If this happens  well collect your first payment on the 10th of the month.
Im satisfied from the systems information Ive seen that the payment date Mrs S selected  
was the first of the month. So I think  Mrs S was reasonably on notice that a first payment 
would be taken on the first working day of December 2018. Ive no evidence to suggest 
Halifax had given Mrs S or her broker any information that differed to this.
I note that she had contacted Halifax on 24 November 2018 and then made a complaint 
which means that the issue with the first payment had already by then come  to her attention. 
Halifax says it sent two letters referring  to this first payment  a completion letter  that was 
dated 24 November  2018 giving the details of the first and subsequent payments. And also a 
direct debit letter sent on 26 November 2018.  From what I can see the completion letter 
which gave the notice was sent within reasonable time. But in any event Mrs S already knew 
about the amount and timing of the payment from her conversations with Halifax.
Mrs S is unhappy that the direct debit due to be taken wasnt stopped before her complaint  
was looked into. And this meant she needed  to cancel it with her own bank. Halifax  had 
issued a final response letter about the complaint on 28 November 2018. This confirmed its 
offer by telephone to accept a payment  by the fifteenth of December 2018  and then to 
amend the future date of payments. That fairly meant she needed to contact her bank. And 
as our adjudicator  says it also meant  that the subsequent payments  would  need  to be 
adjusted to reflect this.
Im afraid I dont have  a basis to find that Halifax made a mistake  or acted unfairly.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019. 
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2043161