K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Amtrust Europe Limited  acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing 
with his claim under a legal expenses insurance  policy. He wants his legal costs,  interest  
and compensation  paid.
background
Mr B had a legal expenses insurance  policy with Amtrust. He had an employment  dispute, 
and instructed a firm of solicitors to deal with the matter. The dispute was settled  before  
proceedings were  issued.  Mr B then contacted Amtrust and made  a claim for his legal costs 
to be paid; his claim  was declined.
Mr B complained to Amtrust. It said that Mr B incurred the costs before making a claim under 
the policy, which meant he wasnt covered. Amtrust  also said that the policy only covered 
costs once approved,  and this didnt happen in Mr Bs case due to the settlement.  It pointed  
out that Mr B hadnt notified it of the claim when it arose, despite  the requirement  to do so 
within the policy, and said effectively Amtrust had been denied  the opportunity  to assess the 
matter. It didnt accept Mr Bs view that because  the invoice hadnt been sent, the legal costs 
hadnt been incurred.
Mr B complained to us and said as his relative was a solicitor, it was reasonable for him to 
use a firm to act. The investigators view was that Mr B was only covered if there was legal 
advice that the claim had a reasonable prospect of success and the costs  were  
proportionate to the amount in dispute. He also noted that Mr B was only able to use his 
choice of solicitors once it was necessary to issue the claim. The investigator  said as Mr B 
didnt need to issue proceedings, he didnt have the right to instruct  his choice of solicitors 
and expect payment  under the policy, and without the formal legal assessment in advance  
about the claim, he also wasnt  covered  for that reason too. The investigator stated that 
whether or not Mr B was invoiced for the legal costs, he incurred them  by getting a solicitor  
to act on his behalf in the dispute. The investigator thought that it wasnt unfair for Amtrust to 
refuse to pay.
Mr B disagreed. He said he had the right at any time to instruct  his own solicitors and require 
Amtrust to pay for it. Mr B also said that he didnt  incur  legal  costs  until an invoice was 
raised, despite work being undertaken on his behalf.  He felt Amtrust had a moral and ethical 
duty to pay his legal costs.  The investigator didnt change her view and pointed out that Mr B 
was quoting cases irrelevant to this issue in question.  She said that by failing to notify 
Amtrust in advance,  it wasnt  able to control  costs or assess the case  and the fact that 
Mr Bs relative was a solicitor wasnt enough to appoint his own choice  of solicitors. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When I refer to Amtrust, Im also referring  
to its agents.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Amtrust has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ref: DRN28183482Choice of solicitor
Both as a matter of law, and under the terms and conditions  of the policy, policyholders 
generally cant choose their own solicitor  to act on their behalf until its necessary to issue 
legal proceedings. This has been confirmed  by the senior courts  and decisions of this 
service. Regulation  6 of the Insurance Companies  (Legal  Expenses Insurance) Regulations 
1990 says:
where under a legal expenses insurance  contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or other 
person having  such qualifications as may be necessary)  to defend, represent or serve the 
interests of the insured in any inquiry  or proceedings,  the insured shall be free to choose  that 
lawyer (or other person)
The phrase  any inquiry or proceedings  means  when it becomes necessary to issue court 
proceedings, or proceedings in another formal place  of inquiry;  in Mr Bs case, the 
employment tribunal.  Mr Bs case never  reached  that stage.
But there are times when  its fair and reasonable to allow a policyholder to instruct  their 
choice of solicitors sooner; for example, if theres  a conflict  of interest which  means a panel 
firm of solicitors  cant act, or if the matter is particularly complex and needs specialist advice. 
Mr Bs case  doesnt appear to be complex  and his argument has centred  on the fact that his 
relative is a solicitor, and an incorrect belief  that a policyholder has the right to choose their 
own solicitor at all times.  Im not persuaded that the fact a policyholder has a legally qualified 
relative is sufficient to mean its fair and reasonable to set aside the terms and conditions of 
the policy. Amtrust has more than one firm of panel  solicitors and Mr B hasnt shown that he 
couldnt have  used any of them  the evidence shows that he chose who he wanted to 
instruct and didnt  contact  Amtrust before doing  so.
Notification and approval in advance
The policy requires Mr B to contact Amtrust as soon as hes aware of the incident giving rise 
to the legal claim. Mr B didnt do this. The policy also says that Amtrust  must approve the 
legal costs in advance to be liable to pay them  (often done through the appointment of panel 
solicitors), and before the claim can be accepted, it must be assessed as having reasonable 
prospects of success and the estimate  of costs be less than the amount  claimed.  The policy  
states that Amtrust  must be consulted  about any settlement. Most of these points are 
highlighted in the policy summary too. Theyre common terms for a legal expenses 
insurance policy.
Mr B accepts that none of this happened  in his case. Strictly under the terms and conditions 
of the policy, Amtrust  is able to decline his claim. But is it fair and reasonable to do so? What 
loss has Amtrust suffered?
As the investigator  points out, by failing to notify Amtrust and allow it to have the case 
assessed (including whether it was proportionate to fund it), it was unable to control costs. 
Most people  who instruct  solicitors privately  are concerned not to pay too much, and I cant 
say its unreasonable for Amtrust to adopt the same view. And just because  the other party 
agreed to a settlement, it doesnt  mean that the case had reasonable prospects of success  
or that the costs were  proportionate. The failure to comply with the terms and conditions  of 
the policy denied  Amtrust  the opportunity to properly look at the case  and mayve  caused it 
financial loss.
Ref: DRN28183483Mr B says that he didnt  need to tell Amtrust until after the case had ended and that theres  
no liability  to pay solicitors costs  until the invoice is received. This is incorrect. Any 
reasonable interpretation of the policy shows that Amtrust needed to know about  the case 
and approve the appointment of solicitors. Mr B has referred to a case that isnt relevant as 
its about landlord and tenant  law. What is relevant is that from when solicitors are appointed 
and send a client  care letter to the client setting out their terms of business  and costs, legal 
costs are incurred. Invoices of solicitors  are subject to specialist costs rules (which  arent  
relevant to this case), but costs are incurred  well before the invoice is raised.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
7 March 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2818348