K820x#14complaint
Ms S and Mr P complain that Yorkshire Building Society wouldnt process a chargeback 
claim for them. 
background
On 22 May 2017 Ms S and Mr P paid £6,571.01 using their NatWest  debit card.  The 
payment was advance  payment for an apartment they wanted to rent for a year from 
March 2018.
In August  2018  Ms S and Mr P had to leave the rented property and their tenancy  was cut 
short. Theyve told us they rented another property at additional  cots and had to pay some  
legal fees. 
In April 2019 Ms S and Mr P tried to raise a chargeback  claim with Yorkshire Building  
Society. But it was declined because Yorkshire Building Society said it had been  raised  
outside the time limits set out in the chargeback  rules. 
Ms S and Mr P referred their complaint  to our service and asked Ms T to act as their 
representative. An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think  the business 
had made  a mistake. As a result, they didnt  uphold the complaint. As Ms T didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms S and Mr P have been  through a difficult time and have lost out financially 
as they had to rent another property  after their original tenancy was cut short. Whilst I can 
see theyve had serious problems, my role is to look at whether Yorkshire Building Society 
treated them  fairly and made any mistakes  after they tried to raise  a chargeback claim. 
I need to start by explaining that Yorkshire  Building  Society doesnt  set the chargeback  rules  
or timescales. Ms S and Mr P used a Visa debit card to make the payment and its Visa that 
set the time limits for making a chargeback claim. 
In line with what the investigators already  said, Ive looked at Visas  chargeback  rules  and 
can see that they allow 120 days from the date the cardholder becomes aware theres a 
problem to raise a claim. The time limits  also say the cardholder  has 120 days  from the last 
date they expected to receive  the services they paid for. But the rules  add that a chargeback  
claim cannot exceed 540 days from the date of the original transaction.  
In this case, 540 days from 22 May 2017 was 13 November  2018. But Ms S and Mr P didnt 
raise their chargeback claim until April 2019. As a result, I have to agree  with the investigator 
that the chargeback claim wasnt raised  in time.  
I note what Ms T says about the delay  in raising  a claim. But, as Ive said above, Yorkshire 
Building Society doesnt set the chargeback rules  or time limits.  And it has no discretion on 
how to apply them. Im sorry to disappoint  Ms S and Mr P but Im satisfied Yorkshire Building 
Ref: DRN24330562Society has correctly applied the Visa chargeback scheme time limits  and that its decision 
not to raise a claim was reasonable. 
As I havent  found  anything to show Yorkshire  Building Society has made an error  in this 
case Im not telling it to take any further  action.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 October  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2433056