K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
personal loan in 2000. Mr A says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr A that he had a choice about  it. 
But Mr A says PPI wasnt mentioned and he didnt know it had been attached to his loan.
Nationwide has sent us a copy of Mr As loan agreement. This set out the cost of the loan 
both with and without PPI. It also said that the PPI was optional.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think Nationwide did make it clear  to Mr A that PPI was 
added to his loan and that he had a choice about  it. And I think Mr A chose  to take the PPI.
Mr A has said he is dyslexic and was just told to sign the forms. But Mr A was taking on a 
new financial  commitment. And I think he couldve taken the time to check the form carefully 
and shouldnt have  signed it if he didnt understand or didnt agree to what  it said.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr A got the information he needed to decide  if the PPI 
was right for him.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like he wouldve been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
Mr A has said that he was self-employed at the time of the sale.  But the policy would  still 
have covered him. And it didnt make it more difficult for self-employed people to claim,  than 
for employed  people.
Mr A told us he wouldnt have received any sick pay if he was unable  to work due to 
sickness. And the policy wouldve meant he didnt need to rely on his family  or any savings 
he had to make his loan repayments if he wasnt earning. So it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put Mr A off taking it out.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
Ref: DRN20604402But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because :
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell Mr A, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr A any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr A any extra interest he 
paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr A the extra he paid each  month on the loan because  the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mr A paid if the loan was paid off early. Nationwide  should also pay Mr A 8%* simple  interest  
on the extra paid each month.
Nationwide has said Mr A was granted a debt relief  order (DRO). Mr A should bear in mind 
the potential impact any payment he receives  from Nationwide could have  on his DRO when 
deciding whether to accept  this decision.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr A can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2060440