K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  about the additional  premium that she was quoted  to add her partner on to 
her car insurance policy, which is underwritten  by Admiral Insurance  Company Limited.
background
Miss B has a car insurance  policy which is underwritten by Admiral. Miss B originally took 
out her car insurance policy in 2017.  She says at this time she received a quote to add her 
partner to her policy, and it was around  £15 extra. However, she didnt add her partner on at 
this time.
In 2018, Miss B changed  her vehicle and she had to pay an additional premium of around 
£90. Miss B then asked  for a quote  to add her partner to her policy  and was quoted an 
additional premium  of over £200. Miss B complained. She feels this increase is unfair. 
Admiral explained  that the premium was increased  largely due to the length  of time Miss Bs 
partner had held their licence, and it explained  that this increased the risk of a claim being 
made. It offered to reduce  the increase by £50, or to waive  cancellation fees if Miss B 
wanted to cancel her policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He explained that we could only look at whether  
Admiral had applied  its own criteria  fairly to determine the additional premium. And he felt 
that it had. He explained there wasnt any indication to show  that Admiral wouldnt have 
applied the same calculation for customers in a similar position.
Miss B disagreed. She felt that the criteria  Admiral  used  was different to other insurers  and 
wasnt fair or reasonable.  She asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
This service isnt here to make judgements about the way an insurer chooses  to assess  risk. 
But we can ask an insurer to tell us how its assessed risk and ensure  it has done so in line 
with its criteria.
In Miss Bs case, she changed  her vehicle to one which  was a higher category than her 
original vehicle. And she then asked to add her partner on to this. Admiral  has explained to 
us how the premiums are calculated, and how the different factors changed the premium. In 
Miss Bs case this was the age of the additional driver, how long they had held their licence 
for and whether they had their own car. The different factors  indicated a higher risk of claims 
being made. So, Admiral  quoted a higher premium.
Ive not seen anything to suggest that this criteria  has been applied to Miss B unfairly, or that 
Admiral would treat someone in a similar  situation differently. So, I dont uphold  this 
complaint.
I understand that Miss B feels strongly that Admiral are applying  a different standard to other 
insurers. But it isnt my role to judge how Admiral assesses risk. Different  insurers will have 
different ways of assessing risk. And Admiral has told Miss B that if she chooses to go to 
Ref: DRN25057472another insurer, she can do so without incurring  any cancellation fees. Its up to Miss B to 
choose what shed  like to do going forward. But I cant  say that Admiral has acted unfairly in 
applying its own risk criteria and quoting  Miss B an increase of over £200  to add her partner.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2505747