K820x#14complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the success fee charged by Claim  Easy Ltd (Claim  Easy)  following a 
successful payment protection insurance  (PPI) claim they made on her behalf. 
background
Miss M instructed Claim Easy  in March 2018 to deal with a PPI claim against Lender S. The 
letter of authority explained Claim Easy would  charge a success  fee of 35% plus VAT of the 
compensation awarded. 
Claim Easy was provided with confirmation of PPI from Lender  S in September. Claim Easy  
sent Miss Ms claim to Lender S on 11 October. 
On 8 November  Claim  Easy contacted  Miss M asking her to complete a PPI questionnaire. 
This was completed on the phone with Miss M on 21 November, and a copy  sent by post for 
Miss M to sign, and return. 
On 28 November Lender S agreed  to pay compensation for Miss Ms claim. A copy  of the 
offer letter was also sent to Claim Easy as Miss Ms representative. 
Miss M complained to Claim Easy about  their success fee saying that shed  spoken  to 
Lender S, and it was her work on the claim that led to the successful outcome. Claim Easy  
agreed to reduce their invoice to 27.5% plus VAT in response to Miss Ms complaint. 
This complaint was originally investigated  by the Legal Ombudsman, but was transferred to 
the Claim Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) as part of the 
change in the regulation  of claims management companies.
The investigator didnt  think Claim Easy had acted unreasonably in charging its invoice, and 
didnt recommend it do anything more in resolution of Miss Ms complaint. Miss M didnt  
agree with the investigators findings,  and requested decision by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Miss M. Having reviewed the case, I think Claim Easy have acted 
reasonably in charging their success fee, so I wont be asking them to do anything  more. 
When Miss M instructed  Claim Easy she agreed  to their terms and conditions which 
explained that their success  fee would be 35% plus VAT of the compensation awarded. 
Miss Ms contract  with Claim  Easy was not dependent on the amount of work completed. 
Miss M agreed  to this arrangement by returning a signed letter of authority in March 2018.
Miss M has commented on the fee cap which prevents claims management companies from 
charging more than 20% plus VAT for any PPI claim. The fee cap referred to by Miss M 
came into force on 10 July 2018. From this date, claims management companies couldnt 
legally charge a success  fee of more than 20% plus VAT. Whilst I can appreciate Miss Ms 
comments, as her contract with Easy Claim for the disputed claim was signed in March  
2018, I think its fair to say the guidance relating  to the fee cap doesnt apply here.   
Ref: DRN27764082Miss M has provided detailed  comments about  the contact she had directly with Lender  S as 
part of the claims process.  From  what Miss S has said,  it seems likely that she did speak to 
Lender S whilst her claim  was on-going  with Claim Easy. But the terms agreed with Claim 
Easy explained that it would be dealing with Miss Ms claim. I can appreciate  Miss M feels 
strongly that it was her work on the claim which led to Lender S decision to pay 
compensation. But I dont think it would be fair for me to say that Claim Easy shouldnt 
charge their success fee for this reason.  
Claim Easy sent the claim to Lender  S and it was because of this that Lender S reached out 
to Miss M to discuss  her claim. Although Miss M chose to deal with Lender S, she didnt 
have to. Easy Claim was the authorised representative for the claim, and it took reasonable 
steps to contact Miss M to complete the PPI questionnaire with her. Easy Claim did what 
they were instructed to do, and it was because of their referral to Lender  S that the claim 
was reviewed. They also contacted Miss M to complete the PPI questionnaire in good faith. 
So I think its fair that their success fee remains payable. 
Claim Easy made an offer to reduce Miss Ms success fee to 27.5% plus VAT in resolution of 
her complaint. As an offer to resolve  the complaint was made as part of the complaint 
handling process, I think its fair that this offer still stands, and is open to Miss M. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Miss M to decide whether to accept the offer from Claim Easy Ltd to pay a 
reduced fee of 27.5%  plus VAT by the date specified below.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October  2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2776408