K821x#15complaint
Mr Ms complaint concerns the sale and cancellation  of a life insurance policy  sold by 
Stonebridge International  Insurance  Ltd.
background
In 2003 Mr M was telephoned  by a representative  of Stonebridge. He was offered a life 
insurance policy, marketed in association with the bank that provided his credit card. The 
policy provided cover for him, his wife and his children at a general level of £25,000, but at 
much higher  levels in the case of accidental death  in a vehicle.
Mr M agreed  to the cover and it commenced with premiums of just over £20 per month. It 
continued until towards the end of 2015  when  Stonebridge took the decision to discontinue 
the product.  It wrote to Mr M to explain it was doing so for commercial  and operational 
reasons, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
This prompted Mr M to complain, both about  the original sale of the policy  and the 
cancellation of the cover. Eventually, after a review  triggered by this service  in 2017, 
Stonebridge made an offer to Mr M. The review  concluded that although the terms of the 
policy entitled Stonebridge to discontinue the cover, doing so couldve led to some 
customers being treated  unfairly as obtaining  replacement cover might  now be more 
expensive.
So Stonebridge agreed to meet the difference in cost of taking out an alternative,  equivalent 
life policy   ie it would  pay as a lump  sum the difference between  the cost of the life cover  
provided by the cancelled  policy (around  £13 per month)  and the premiums of a replacement 
policy. It would also pay £100  for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with this offer so the matter as a whole was reviewed  by one of our 
adjudicators. In respect of the mis-selling issue, he concluded that Mr M hadnt  been advised 
to take out the policy. Rather, it was an execution-only sale with no assessment of 
suitability for Mr Ms circumstances having  been carried  out. So, Stonebridges responsibility 
was limited to ensuring that the information provided  to Mr M was clear  so he could make an 
informed decision as to whether he wanted  to take out the policy.  The adjudicator felt that 
Stonebridge had done this.  
In respect of the cancelation of the policy, the adjudicator felt that Stonebridges offer was 
fair in the circumstances. 
Mr M didnt  agree, so the matters been referred to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons. 
In respect of the sale of the policy, I acknowledge  that Mr M say he feels he was pressured 
into buying it by a pushy salesperson. But ultimately,  as it wasnt  an advised sale, it was his 
decision whether  or not he wanted to proceed  with it. And there was a 60-day cooling-off 
period in which he could have cancelled  if he wasnt happy with it. Ive not seen that he was 
misled about how the policy worked. 
Ref: DRN22683652In any event, his concern  about the sale rather falls away given that the policy was 
maintained for 12 years  until being  discontinued by Stonebridge and Mr M is now unhappy to 
have lost the cover it provided. Regarding this issue, while I can understand the frustration 
caused by Stonebridges  actions, Im satisfied that the solution now proposed  is a fair one 
and acts to put Mr M back in the position  he would otherwise be in, as far as possible, 
without any additional  cost to him. 
I note hes found  a quote for a significantly higher level of cover,  which I think reflects that his 
needs and circumstances have changed.  But I dont think I can fairly direct  Stonebridge to 
meet the cost of anything other than cover thats broadly similar in terms of level of cover 
and the term of the original policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Stonebridge 
International Insurance Ltd to compensate Mr M in line with the offer as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2268365