K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont  pay him compensation after a 
faulty ATM machine  was unable to accept  a cash deposit.
background
Mr K has an account with Santander.
Mr K says he wanted to book a family  holiday hed seen  online. He says he was concerned 
he wouldnt  have enough funds in his account, so took a taxi to his local branch to deposit 
some cash.  The branch  was closed as it was a Sunday, and the ATM outside was faulty   so 
he was unable to deposit any funds.
Mr K phoned  Santander when  he got home to complain hed wasted his journey. He said 
hed make Santander liable for the price  of the holiday  going  up as he was unable  to make 
the booking on that day. He also asked for compensation  he says Santander paid him 
compensation before when the ATM wouldnt allow him to deposit a cheque, and they 
should do the same again  this time as he couldnt deposit cash.
Santander looked into Mr Ks complaint. They agreed there had been a fault with the ATM, 
but said this wasnt  within their control  as the branch was closed at the time, and was fixed  
by the next morning when  the branch re-opened. So, they didnt  agree  they should  pay 
compensation, or be liable for the price of the holiday going up.
Mr K wasnt  happy with this outcome and brought  the case  to us. Our investigator didnt think 
Santander had done anything substantially wrong,  but did recommend that Santander  refund 
the cost of Mr Ks wasted  taxi journey to the branch   this cost £10.50.
Both parties  were unhappy with our investigators  recommendation, so the case has been 
passed to me to consider.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Mr K says he was trying  to book a holiday,  and went to his local Santander branch to deposit 
cash into his account to make sure he had enough funds to pay for this. He didnt  think the 
funds in his account at the time  just over £3,000   would have been enough once he got to 
the end of the online booking process.
There is no dispute about the ATM  not working.  The question I have to decide is what  impact 
the ATM not working had on Mr K  as this is central to what  we base our awards on. I have 
to look at the evidence in the case when deciding this.
I can see Mr K phoned Santander  and complained when he got home. But, I cant  see he 
paid any extra to book  a holiday after this date  in fact hes said he didnt end up booking  
any holiday  because prices went up and became  too expensive for him. So, I cant say Mr K 
lost out financially as a result  of the ATM  not working  he hasnt paid extra for the holiday 
he saw - and so am not minded to award Mr K compensation for any financial  loss suffered.
Ref: DRN22463342And, from what  Ive seen I cant say the ATM problem had any other significant impact on 
Mr K, aside from being unable to book a holiday on that day. Ive asked Mr K for information  
to show the impact of the ATM not working,  but he hasnt provided  anything in relation  to 
this. I also havent  seen anything that shows he tried to do something  further  to book the 
holiday, or any other holiday. I think this shows, whilst  Mr K may have seen a particular 
holiday he wanted to book, it didnt cause him any real upset when he wasnt able to book it 
following the ATM fault. For this reason,  I dont think the faulty ATM  has caused Mr K any 
real inconvenience,  and so Im also not minded to award Mr K compensation for any trouble 
or upset  suffered.
I accept, based  on what Mr K has told us, he did take a taxi to his local branch to deposit 
funds to enable  him to book a holiday on that day  Ive seen his taxi receipt  for this journey. 
But, Im not minded to say Santander  should reimburse Mr K the cost of this. Thats because 
Mr K would always have  had to pay for this fare whether the ATM was working or not.
Finally, Mr K says Santander  should  pay him compensation because  thats  what  they did the 
last time the ATM wasnt working.  Whilst I understand  Mr K may think this, Santander 
doesnt have to pay compensation just because theyve done so before. The question 
whether or not to pay compensation depends  on if theyve done anything  wrong  and, if so, 
what impact this had on Mr K. And as Ive already said,  I dont think Santander has done 
anything wrong, or caused Mr K any real trouble  or upset or financial loss that warrants  
paying any compensation to him.
the response to my provisional  decision
Santander didnt  have any further comments.
Mr K did respond to my provisional decision, making the following points, summarised  as 
follows:
-Mr K wasnt aware the Santander  cash machine wasnt  working  when he took a taxi 
to the branch to deposit some  cash
-Hed been compensated before by Santander when that cash  machine was unable to 
accept a cheque  he tried to deposit  what has changed this time
-Because the machine  couldnt accept the cash deposit, Mr K was unable  to book a 
holiday on that day, and as the price then went  up the holiday became unaffordable
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of Mr Ks response to it.
However, Mr K hasnt raised any new points, or provided me with any new information that 
would lead me to reach a different conclusion. 
For this reason, and the reasons outlined in my provisional findings, I dont think  Santander  
need to pay anything to Mr K.
Ref: DRN22463343my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2246334