K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  that Coutts  & Company (Coutts) refused to extend  the term of 
their interest only mortgage, which expired in 2012. 
They complain, in particular, that when originally taking out the mortgage Coutts led them to 
believe that extending the term wouldnt be a problem.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out their mortgage with Coutts  in 2007. This was a remortgage of their 
existing property, with a further  drawdown  of some  of the equity to facilitate  some  home  
improvements. 
Under their previous  mortgage, taken out in 2004,  Mr and Mrs C had borrowed £629,000 on 
an interest only basis over a term of 24 years. Being on an interest only basis,  the capital 
balance was to be repaid  on or before the end of the term.
In 2007, Coutts  recommended Mr and Mrs C a new mortgage for £750,000.  This was also to 
be on an interest only basis,  but over a shorter term of five years.  Mr and Mrs C borrowed a 
further £30,000 in 2009, with Coutts  recommending a new fixed  rate at that time with all 
other significant aspects  of the mortgage remaining  the same.
Mr and Mrs C werent  in a position to repay  the outstanding capital balance due under the 
mortgage when  the term expired in 2012.  Over  the years that followed, there were 
discussions between Coutts and Mr and Mrs C about their circumstances and the possibility 
of extending the mortgage term. But no formal agreement was ever reached. In the 
meantime, Coutts  continued  to accept  payments to cover the interest being charged.
By 2016, Coutts  was looking to begin recovery  action.  By this time, Mr and Mrs C were  in the 
process of arranging a new mortgage  with an alternative lender  but this hadnt  yet resulted 
in a firm mortgage  offer.
Unhappy at how Coutts was dealing with the situation, Mr and Mrs C raised a complaint.  
They said theyd been led to believe when taking out the mortgage  that theyd be able to 
extend the term without any issue  so they were  unhappy  at this apparent 
misrepresentation. They also said thered been a number of meetings and reviews to look at 
arranging a new mortgage with Coutts,  but despite  providing the requested  information  
nothing had been done. They were  unhappy  that large periods of time had passed  with no 
contact, and at what  they believed  to be bullying and intimidating behaviour  on Coutts part 
in trying to recover the debt.
Ref: DRN27565452Coutts didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.  It said it was impossible to comment on what  
may have  been  discussed when Mr and Mrs C took out the mortgage in 2007.  But it noted  
that theyd made changes  to the mortgage during the term  which ought to have made them 
aware that these  were  subject to application  and assessment. It apologised that thered been  
a breakdown in communication between  February and July 2015, but pointed  to an ongoing 
dialogue since the mortgage  ended  in 2012  that included  meetings in 2013, 2014  and 2016  
as well as a number  of phone conversations and email exchanges. Ultimately it said that it 
would now have to proceed with recovery action,  which had already been deferred  a number 
of times, as Mr and Mrs C hadnt  been  able to successfully refinance elsewhere. It said there  
was no evidence to support  Mr and Mrs Cs suggestion of bullying or intimidation.
Unhappy with Coutts response, Mr and Mrs C referred their concerns to us and the 
complaint was reviewed  by one of our investigators.  She thought Coutts had considered  
whether it could agree a new mortgage, but had fairly declined to do so on the basis of Mr 
and Mrs Cs circumstances. And given the amount  of time that had passed since the term 
ended, and in the absence of a plan to repay the outstanding balance, she didnt  think it was 
unreasonable for Coutts to begin recovery action.
As Mr and Mrs C didnt  accept our investigators  view, their complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
my first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in August 2018, setting out why I 
didnt intend to uphold it. In summary,  I said: 
There was no documentary evidence  to suggest that a term extension had been 
discussed  or that it would be agreed without review  when Coutts  sold the 
mortgage to Mr and Mrs C in 2007.  I had no reason to doubt that the possibility of a 
term extension was discussed, but there was no way of knowing exactly what was 
said. And so while Id taken Mr and Mrs Cs recollections into account,  it seemed  
unlikely to me that the adviser  wouldve promised  or guaranteed something they 
couldnt  an unconditional term extension.
Id expect Coutts to have fairly  considered Mr and Mrs Cs requests to extend the 
term once it expired  and I thought  it had done so here. It had reviewed their income 
and expenditure  in 2012 and kept things under review intermittently thereafter.  It 
didnt seem to me that they couldve  afforded  to pay much  more than they were 
already paying.  And fixing them into a new deal  one that they may struggle to 
afford  didnt strike me as being in their best interests. They couldnt afford a switch 
to a repayment basis, which meant theyd just be left having to sell the property 
further down the line  also putting them at the mercy of property prices and interest 
rates in the meantime. So a temporary period  of forbearance  allowing Mr and 
Mrs C time to repay some of their other debts and consider their other  options   
seemed to have  been the most  appropriate  way forward.
I thought there had been some spells where Coutts hadnt progressed things as 
quickly as would  be expected. But I couldnt  see that Mr and Mrs C had really been  put 
out by this  as even if Coutts had moved  things along any quicker, all that would 
mean is that legal  action to recover the debt wouldve started  sooner  and that wasnt  
something Mr and Mrs C wanted.  So I didnt think Coutts needed to compensate Mr 
and Mrs C for any delays in moving things along.
Ref: DRN27565453Coutts accepted my first provisional decision,  but Mr and Mrs C didnt. They referred the 
matter to their legal representative,  who responded on their behalf. In summary, he said:
Id misunderstood  Mr and Mrs Cs core complaint when saying they were  unhappy  
that their requests  to extend the term had been  declined. The issue  rather was that 
Mr and Mrs C had been induced to transfer their mortgage from their previous lender 
 an arrangement they were perfectly  happy  with and which  Id not mentioned in my 
summary of the relevant background   on the agreement, promise or assurance  that 
the new Coutts mortgage would be extended  until it could be paid off.
Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have remortgaged without  such an agreement,  given that 
without it theyd  be moving to a significantly  inferior product  for no obvious reason. It 
couldnt realistically be argued that Coutts had made an unsolicited  approach  to Mr 
and Mrs C with a request  to transfer  their existing  mortgage  ending  in 2027  with 
one that would end in five years, at which time theyd need to reapply  with an 
extension being dependent on the criteria in place at the time. Either  Coutts  had 
induced Mr and Mrs C with an assurance  of an extension, or the mortgage had been  
mis-sold.
Coutts was under  a duty not to mislead Mr and Mrs C and, in the absence  of insisting 
or advising that they seek independent legal advice,  had also to ensure  that their new 
mortgage was at least consistent with their existing  one. Without the agreement to 
extend, it was clear that the mortgage  had been mis-sold.
When noting in its response to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint that it was impossible to 
comment on what may have  been discussed when the mortgage was taken out, it 
was clear that Coutts was not denying  that an agreement or assurance that the 
mortgage would be extended may have been made.  Given  Mr and Mrs Cs assertion 
that it had been, I had no choice but to find that one had been  made  and that Coutts 
were bound by it. 
It wasnt surprising that this agreement  which amounted  to an inducement  hadnt  
been noted within any of Coutts paperwork.  Nor was it uncommon  for a salesperson 
to make a promise to secure  new business  without recording  it. While  Id said it was 
unlikely that the adviser wouldve made  such a promise, it was a sad fact of modern-
day life that such  inducements  were still regularly made  for example in the 
widespread mis-selling of PPI and mortgages prior to the financial crash.
In the absence of any clear  verbal  or written statement that the agreement  would not 
be honoured, there was no way for Mr and Mrs C to have become aware that an 
extension would  require an application  and assessment.  And in relying  upon  that 
agreement, there was no reason  for them to ask for a longer term as Id queried.
Once Coutts had decided  not to honour the agreement to extend the term, Mr and 
Mrs C werent  able to challenge  it  and were left to try and agree a compromise. 
Coutts, though,  had no real intention of reaching a compromise.  Things had changed 
since the financial crash  and in light of stricter regulation,  and Mr and Mrs C no 
longer met the banks criteria.
Whether Coutts had subsequently considered Mr and Mrs Cs requests to extend the 
term fairly was largely irrelevant to the core complaint. 
Ref: DRN27565454Mr and Mrs C had continued to maintain  the contractual monthly instalments and 
there would  be no detriment to Coutts  in allowing the mortgage to continue. The 
matter could therefore be easily be resolved by extending the mortgage term to that 
of Mr and Mrs Cs previous mortgage.
my second  provisional decision
After reviewing the complaint afresh  and in light of the response to my provisional decision,  I 
issued a second provisional decision. This explained why I now thought the complaint should  
be upheld. I said:
Firstly, I would say that I dont agree that I misunderstood Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C agreed  to take out a mortgage with a term of five years. They  wanted  to 
extend it, and believed that they could. But Coutts refused. Mr and Mrs C are unhappy 
about that. I addressed Mr and Mrs Cs concerns  about how the mortgage  was 
presented to them within my provisional findings,  including their specific  points around 
the alleged agreement or assertion that the term could be extended.
I do, however,  think on reflection that it would be appropriate to consider the suitability 
of Coutts recommendation to take out the mortgage  given the concerns that Mr and 
Mrs C raised about how it was sold to them. While not explicitly raised by Mr and 
Mrs C within  their original  complaint, I think their representative fairly queried whether  
 if no assurance was given as to the possibility of a term extension   the mortgage 
could ever have been  suitable  for Mr and Mrs C. So Ive reviewed this particular aspect 
in light of everything both parties have sent us to date. And having done  so, Im 
currently minded to uphold the complaint as I dont think Coutts recommendation was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs C. Ill explain why.
Coutts provided Mr and Mrs C with an advised  level of service when selling them the 
mortgage in 2007, as confirmed in the mortgage  offer. In providing  this 
recommendation, Coutts was required to ensure the mortgage  was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs C  taking into account,  amongst other  things, their needs and circumstances. 
And in doing so, Id expect Coutts  to have considered whether Mr and Mrs C had a 
preference for a particular  term. Mr and Mrs C, via their representative,  make  the point  
that if there  was no certainty that the term could simply  be extended down the line, 
then they had a need  for a longer  mortgage term than the five years they were given. 
And Im inclined to agree.
I say this because,  as the mortgage  was provided  on an interest only basis,  the capital 
balance would need to be repaid at the end of the five-year term. Coutts fact find 
document from the time notes the following in respect of a repayment plan:
Bullet repayment at maturity. Options here include the property itself, 
lump sums/bonuses  from the business and/or an ultimate exit from 
the business as a whole A satisfactory  case for  ultimate 
repayment
It doesnt seem there was a firm, agreed plan for how Mr and Mrs C would  actually 
repay the mortgage once the term expired  rather there were a range of possible 
options which gave  Coutts comfort in approving  the mortgage. And while viable, I dont 
think they met with Mr and Mrs Cs needs at the time.  
Ref: DRN27565455Mr and Mrs C say they had no plans or desire  to sell either their property or business 
within five years of taking out the mortgage. Their previous mortgage had been 
scheduled to run until 2028  (as opposed to 2012)  coinciding with Mr Cs intended 
retirement at around 60 years old. They would then have had the option  of selling 
either the property  or business, downsizing  if necessary, and buying a retirement 
property which theyd  own outright. That seems a reasonable plan and not one that I 
can see they were seeking  to change when remortgaging with Coutts. Theres nothing  
in the fact find document to suggest that there was any discussion with Coutts about 
selling either  the property  or the business  within five years. And I cant see why theyd 
have wanted to.
I cant see any reason why Mr and Mrs C needed a term of five years. It doesnt 
appear to be something they suggested. And theres nothing  within  any of Coutts 
paperwork to support why this was recommended to them   which Id expect given 
especially that it represented a change from Mr and Mrs Cs existing arrangement. 
As a result, it seems to me that Mr and Mrs C had a need for the mortgage  term to 
match that of the mortgage  they were  looking  to replace  to coincide with their plans 
for retirement and method  of repaying  the mortgage.  The only feasible  method of 
repaying the mortgage without selling either their home or business prematurely 
wouldve been the lump sums or bonuses from Mr Cs business.  But Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Coutts discussed the viability of Mr C generating the £750,000 
theyd need to repay the balance within five years. So that seems an unnecessary risk 
to take, rather than give them the peace  of mind of a longer term that seems to have 
fitted their needs and circumstances at the time.
So I think Coutts made an error in recommending that Mr and Mrs C take out their 
interest only mortgage over a term of five years, given the method with which  they 
intended to repay it. Instead, I think it shouldve recommended a term of 21 years as 
from what Ive seen,  that wouldve most suitably accommodated their circumstances 
and intentions at the time.  
I should note that further changes were made to Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage down the 
line  they switched to a new product and took out some  additional  borrowing. But I 
cant see that anything  happened around  the time of those changes or that anything  
was said during those  interactions that would  lead me to think a longer term wasnt 
more suitable  for Mr and Mrs C.
As I think  Coutts made  an error,  Ive gone  on to think about how it should put things  
right. The starting  point  would be for Coutts to put Mr and Mrs C in the position  they 
ought to be in, had the error  not occurred. To me, that is with a mortgage term that 
runs until 2028. The position here is complicated somewhat by the changes to Mr and 
Mrs Cs circumstances since the mortgage was taken out. But despite no longer 
having the business to sell, I still think Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances are such  that it 
would be appropriate  for Coutts to amend the mortgage term to the duration that I think  
shouldve been  recommended  at the outset.
Ref: DRN27565456I say this because  Mr and Mrs C have  continued to demonstrate that they can afford 
the interest only payments required under the terms of the (now expired) mortgage 
contract. And while  one possible repayment  method no longer exists, there still seems 
to be sufficient equity  to allow them to downsize at the end of the term should they 
need to (and as they always seem to have intended). And of course by virtue  of having 
a further nine years to repay the mortgage,  theyll have a lot of additional time to 
consider their options, arrange alternative repayment methods  and/or make 
overpayments to reduce  the capital balance as and when theyre able to. 
Ive also considered the trouble and upset this issue has caused  Mr and Mrs C. And I 
can see that it will have had a significant impact upon them.  Theyve been faced with 
the prospect of losing  their home since the mortgage term expired in 2012. Theyve 
been put through a number of mortgage  reviews  during that time,  and sought help and 
alternative finance elsewhere.  This has also been against the backdrop of a period of 
some personal and financial strain  Mr and Mrs C have told us of anxiety over their 
daughters health  and wellbeing, on top of the loss of Mr Cs business and a period  of 
his own ill health.  So to compensate them for the understandable trouble and upset 
caused by the term expiring some years sooner than I think  it ought  to have, I also 
intend to direct Coutts to pay Mr and Mrs C compensation of £1,000.
Mr and Mrs C may well have incurred additional expenses in exploring alternative 
finance options with other  providers. That, too, ought not to have been necessary. So if 
they can evidence  their reasonable costs in this respect, I also intend  to require Coutts 
to reimburse them  for these. I invite Mr and Mrs C to send me details of any such  costs 
they wish me to take into account when replying  to this provisional  decision.
So to put things right, I said that I intended to require Coutts to:
Extend the term of Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage  until 2028;
Reimburse Mr and Mrs C for any reasonable, evidenced  costs in exploring an 
alternative mortgage elsewhere;  and
Pay Mr and Mrs C compensation  of £1,000 for the trouble and upset  this matter has 
caused them.
Mr and Mrs C, via their representative, said they accepted my second  provisional decision.
Coutts didnt accept my second provisional decision. In summary,  it said:
Mortgage regulation was very  different and open to interpretation before changes  
were made in February 2014  following the Mortgage Market  Review  particularly in 
relation to interest only mortgages, the suitability of a particular term and the need for 
formal identification  of a credible repayment strategy. It thought I was applying 
standards to the sale of the mortgage  that didnt exist at that time.
Id said that Mr and Mrs C said theyd  not planned or wanted to sell the property or 
their business, but the mortgage  documents from 2007 said otherwise. There  were 
plenty of reasons  why they may have wished to  for example, for family reasons, to 
maximise value or a planned  exit (or retirement) from the business. There  was no 
evidence either way now, beyond Mr and Mrs Cs assertions   which came 12 years  
after things had gone wrong.
Ref: DRN27565457The case  for Mr and Mrs C being  misadvised and the redress Id proposed seemed 
to be based on the assertion that Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have refinanced with Coutts 
without the 21-year term of their previous  mortgage. This ignored the additional 
£121,000 theyd borrowed initially and the £30,000 taken a year later.  Mr and Mrs C 
had been aware of the term at the time  so Coutts queried  why theyd moved, if their 
previous lender was prepared to provide the additional borrowing they were seeking, 
particularly as their representative  said theyd ended up with a worse  product in doing  
so. It inferred  that Mr and Mrs Cs previous lender wouldnt  provide the additional 
funds  which theyd  gotten from Coutts  at the cost of a reduced term.
It wouldnt have provided a 21-year term for an interest only mortgage  as a matter  of 
general credit policy in 2007.  It generally only provided five year terms in such 
circumstances at that time.
If I was looking to put Mr and Mrs C in the position they wouldve been in if theyd 
stayed with their previous  lender, then that wouldve been  with a mortgage  of 
£151,000 lower than today  and they should  be told to make a lump sum reduction 
of that amount now. 
The impact of overwriting the terms of a mortgage and agreeing  to extend the 
mortgage term to 21 years was severe  and could  have wide-ranging ramifications. Id 
not taken into account what could happen  in the future from an affordability 
perspective, for example  if interest  rates rose and Mr and Mrs C could no longer 
afford the mortgage. More widely, such action didnt meet  current conduct rules  and 
could impact the market  in general.
Coutts also said that, in any event, it believed that any concerns about the sale of the 
mortgage fell outside of our jurisdiction. This was because the sale occurred more than six 
years ago and it believed that more than three years had elapsed  since  Mr and Mrs C ought  
reasonably to have  been  aware they had cause for complaint.
I issued a decision in respect of our jurisdiction to consider  the aspects of Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint that related to the sale last month.  This set out why I was satisfied  we had the 
power to consider these matters, as I believed that they had been raised within the relevant 
time limits. 
This decision, therefore, only deals with my findings  on the merits of Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my second provisional decision why I thought Coutts recommendation that Mr 
and Mrs C take out their new interest  only mortgage  was unsuitable.  And having taking 
Coutts points into consideration, I still think thats the case  and that the redress  I proposed  
remains a fair way to put things right. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Coutts  argues that Ive considered the sale of the mortgage  in 2007 against  a higher 
standard than existed  at the time. I dont agree with that. While its fair to say that mortgage  
regulation has tightened  up since 2007, the regulations in force  at the time required Coutts to 
Ref: DRN27565458take reasonable steps to make sure any mortgage  recommendation it made was suitable  for 
Mr and Mrs C. It had to ensure they could afford  to repay it and that it was appropriate to 
their needs  and circumstances. And with regard to the latter, the rules advised that it should 
have due regard  as to whether Mr and Mrs C had a preference for a particular term.
I set out in my second provisional decision why I thought Coutts  recommendation that Mr 
and Mrs C take out the mortgage on a five-year term fell short  and rendered  it unsuitable.  I 
couldnt see a need to adjust the term from their existing  arrangement  (of 21 years) so 
significantly. Coutts says there were lots of possible reasons. That may be, but there isnt 
any evidence to suggest thats  what Mr and Mrs C actually wanted  or had a need for  at 
the time.  So I still think that Mr and Mrs C had a need for a longer term, in line with that of 
their existing mortgage, based on the available evidence of their needs and circumstances.
I should also add that Im not saying here that a customers previous mortgage  is always  
relevant to or indicative  of the suitability  of one that replaces it. Ive not agreed with the point 
raised by Mr and Mrs Cs representative that Coutts  needed to ensure the new mortgage it 
replaced was consistent with the old one. Rather, in considering what Mr and Mrs Cs needs 
and circumstances  were  when remortgaging with Coutts, I think  their existing  arrangement is 
relevant evidence for me to take into account   alongside everything else that is available,  
including things like the paperwork  Coutts completed at the time and what Mr and Mrs C 
have told us about their circumstances  and intentions. And having  reviewed all of that, Ive 
not been persuaded that they had a need to amend the term of their mortgage from 21 years 
to just five.
Coutts says that it didnt,  as a matter of general  policy, provide terms as long as 21 years for 
interest only mortgages. Its not provided  any evidence to support that. But even if I accept 
what it says, I dont  see that it changes things. I still think  a 21-year term was suitable.  So 
thats what Coutts shouldve recommended. And if it couldnt provide a mortgage  that was 
suitable, the rules  in force at the time required it not to make a recommendation at all. So Id 
expect there,  at least, to have been some discussion  with Mr and Mrs C about that  but I 
cant see that there was. Had there been,  Mr and Mrs C could then have made an informed 
choice as to whether to proceed  with what Coutts could offer,  or seek something that met 
their needs  elsewhere.  Given  what Ive found  in respect of their needs  and circumstances at 
the time,  I think the latter is what would most  likely have happened. And I see no reason why 
Mr and Mrs C would  have been unable to obtain both the borrowing and the term they were  
seeking with an alternative lender.
On a related note,  Coutts queries why Mr and Mrs C took out the mortgage at issue  if it put 
them in a worse  position, as has been argued. I think the main issue here is that Mr and 
Mrs C didnt think that extending the mortgage  would be a problem  whether through  
anything Coutts  told them or not. Mr and Mrs C have  been consistent  on this point  
throughout their complaint. And if they didnt  think extending the mortgage would be a 
problem  rightly or wrongly  it follows that they didnt see the reduced term as the cost  of 
the additional borrowing they were  seeking, as Coutts suggests. 
Coutts go on to argue  that the redress I proposed  in my second provisional decision  fails to 
take into account the additional borrowing that Mr and Mrs C went on to take. I dont agree 
with that. The aim of the redress  as with our approach more  generally  is to put the 
complainant in the position they would be in, had the error not occurred. Coutts  argument  
here seems to suggest that would be to restore them to the mortgage  they held with the 
previous lender. Thats not where I think theyd be. 
Ref: DRN27565459As noted above,  I think Mr and Mrs C would  have borrowed the same amount as they did 
over the years with Coutts, but on a suitable  term. And to reiterate, if not with Coutts then 
with an alternative lender.  So thats  the position  Im seeking to put them  in now. Its worth 
pointing out that while Coutts argues Mr and Mrs C should return the additional borrowing, 
that too seems  to oversimplify  things somewhat: as if Mr and Mrs C had never borrowed the 
funds, then Coutts also wouldnt have been able to charge interest  on it over all these years. 
Ultimately though, we are where we are  the Coutts mortgage went ahead on an unsuitable 
term, and I am seeking to redress that as practicably as I can.
I note Coutts concerns about  what could happen in the future as regards the ongoing 
affordability of the mortgage over the extended  term and possible contravention of current  
conduct rules. It may well be that under current regulations, an application from Mr and 
Mrs C either  for a new mortgage  on these terms or an extension of their existing deal would 
be declined. But were  not dealing with a new application under the current  conduct  rules. 
Ive established  that Coutts  misadvised Mr and Mrs C to take out this mortgage in the first 
place, and I now have  to decide the fairest way to put that right. As I set out in my second  
provisional decision, Id considered whether Mr and Mrs Cs current circumstances meant 
that it wouldnt be appropriate for me to direct  Coutts to extend their mortgage term. Ive not 
been provided with anything  further in this respect.  So I still think, for the reasons explained 
in that decision, that a term extension is appropriate.
I also note Coutts concerns about possible  ramifications on the mortgage  market more 
widely, but we decide each case on its individual merits. And Ive explained why, in this 
particular case,  I think  a longer term wouldve been suitable for Mr and Mrs C at the outset  
and why, in these circumstances, an extension is the appropriate redress  for that now. I 
should, though, point  out that Mr and Mrs C may wish to seek  independent  financial advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision.  
Finally, within  my second provisional decision I invited Mr and Mrs C to let me have details of 
any costs theyd incurred  in exploring  an alternative mortgage elsewhere   as I intended to 
direct Coutts  to reimburse them for any reasonable amounts  that they could evidence. As 
theyve not provided  any information, Ive understood that they dont have any such costs  to 
claim  so Im not making any award in this respect.
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and require Coutts & Company to:
Extend the term of Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage  until 2028, so that it runs for a term of 
21 years  from when  it began; and
Pay Mr and Mrs C compensation  of £1,000 for the trouble and upset  this matter has 
caused them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2756545