K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Creation Financial  Services Limited rejected his Section 75 claim.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I proposed to uphold Mr Gs complaint and to 
require Creation to collect  the sofa and refund  Mr G 30% of the payments hes made under 
the agreement. I invited  Mr G and Creation  to let me have any further evidence or arguments  
they wanted to make  before I finally  determined  the matter.
Mr G said hed almost  paid off the sofa and felt that hed never been able to use it as hed 
hoped. He was unhappy that Creation would be retaining a large percentage of what  hed 
paid for a product which he felt had never been fit for purpose. He said that hed have to find 
a lot of money  to purchase a replacement  sofa and said he wanted a full refund.
Creation said that because  the fault was reported after 6 months  it was up to Mr G to show  
that the fault was present  at the point of supply. It said the retailer then had the right to offer 
a repair  or a refund in these circumstances.  Creation said it wanted  to arrange an inspection 
of the sofa at its cost.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account what both parties have said. I appreciate that Mr G will have to 
purchase a replacement sofa in due course  but looking at the nature of the fault which 
largely affects the recliner part of the sofa, Im not persuaded that Mr G hasnt had use of the 
rest of the sofa and on balance I think the refund of 30% is fair.
Ive also noted  Creations comments. Ive already explained in my provisional decision that I 
dont think the sofa was durable and that the fault wasnt successfully repaired on the first 
attempt. I dont think the business  should  be given a further opportunity to inspect or repair 
the sofa now.
Taking everything into account  I see no reasons  to reach different conclusions from the ones 
I set out in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is to uphold  the complaint. I require Creation Financial Services  Limited  to:
Arrange for the sofa to be collected at no cost to Mr G
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Refund Mr G 30% of all payments made  to date to reflect his impaired use of the sofa 
together with 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Ref: DRN25090402Pay compensation of £100 for inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2509040