K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI)  handling of her car insurance 
policy.
Reference to UKI includes their agents.
background
Mrs Ss car was insured by UKI. On 16 June 2018, while her car was being  driven  by her 
husband, an incident happened while they were driving out of a supermarket. Mrs S was sat 
in the front passenger seat at the time.  Mrs S said her car was stationary  in traffic on a 
roundabout. Ahead of her was a large lorry that was waiting to turn left at a set of traffic 
lights. 
The aerial photos provided by Mrs S show a small roundabout with a number of exits. The 
exit she was getting off leads  onto a two lane road with lines dividing the two lanes. Both 
lanes are around five to six car lengths  long and they both meet traffic lights.  The left hand 
lane is for left turning vehicles and the right hand  lane is for vehicles turning right.  The 
roundabout Mrs S was on appears  wide enough  to accommodate  two cars at the same time 
although theres no dividing line in the middle  to identify two separate  lanes.
Mrs S said her car was on the left hand lane of the roundabout signalling  left to exit onto the 
left hand lane of the two lane road. She said there was a long lorry directly in front of her. On 
the aerial photos she provided Mrs S helpfully superimposed a number of different coloured 
rectangles each representing the relevant vehicles she described. The back of the lorry was 
positioned on the edge of the roundabout indicating that it had just exited the roundabout 
and was almost fully on the two lane road Mrs S intended to move onto. 
Mrs S said she noticed a small black car drive up from her left trying to push in to exit onto 
the same  road Mrs S intended  to. Mrs S said when the traffic lights turned green  and the 
lorry moved she too started  to exit the roundabout while the black car was trying to 
undertake her. Mrs S said her husband  sounded  the horn, both cars stopped  but Mrs Ss 
husband was able to drive  ahead  onto the left hand  lane of the two lane road.  Mrs S said the 
driver of the black car became aggressive  and started tailgating them. Both cars then turned 
left at the traffic lights  in congested  traffic. The black car then bumped into the back of 
Mrs Ss car and they stopped. Mrs S was able to take some  photos and then drove  off as 
she didnt see any damage  to the back of her car.
Mrs S didnt report the incident to UKI. But a few days  later on 20 June, the other  drivers 
solicitor wrote to UKI claiming for whiplash injury. The other driver said that she was 
correctly positioned  in the left hand lane of the roundabout behind  the lorry while Mrs Ss car 
was in the right hand lane behind her. The other driver said when traffic started moving  
Mrs Ss car cut in front of her car hitting the front right hand side causing  damage to it. The 
other driver also said she suffered whiplash injury. The other driver said Mrs Ss car didnt 
stop so she followed.
UKI paid the other drivers  claim and admitted Mrs Ss husband was fully to blame for the 
accident. Mrs S complained saying UKIs  decision was unreasonable  as they hadnt 
investigated the incident properly. UKI didnt uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Mrs S didnt think  
that was fair so she brought  her complaint to our service. One of our investigators  looked 
Ref: DRN21823682into it. She felt that UKI had dealt  with Mrs S fairly. As Mrs S didnt  agree  with our 
investigator, the complaint  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mrs S, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive considered all of Mrs Ss points  carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues. My role isnt to decide  who was at fault for the accident, its to 
decide if UKI have  dealt  with Mrs S in a fair and reasonable way.
Under the policy, UKI have the discretion to settle claims as they feel appropriate  without the 
need to get Mrs Ss agreement. But I expect  them  to exercise that discretion in a fair and 
reasonable way. While I think UKI could have handled things better, I believe their decision 
to pay the other drivers claim and admit  liability was reasonable.
UKI said Mrs S admitted her car was in the right hand lane and that she wanted to move 
over to the left hand lane where  the black car was. UKI said on that basis  as Mrs Ss car was 
changing lanes  the onus  was on her husband  to ensure it was safe to do so. But in her 
detailed statement dated 10 July 2018, Mrs S didnt say she was in the right hand  lane.  She 
said she was correctly  positioned in the left hand  lane of the two lane roundabout signalling  
to exit the roundabout.  The driver of the black car said in her statement that Mrs Ss car was 
behind her in the right hand lane on the roundabout while  the black  car was in the left hand 
lane. So, the two are completely at odds  with each other. Where that is the case I would 
expect UKI when investigating to look at other available evidence  and to consider what other 
evidence may be available.
From UKIs contact  notes  I can see that Mrs S told them  on 29 June 2018,  that she wanted 
them to ask for any CCTV that may have captured  the incident. UKI said they would make 
enquiries. In her full statement dated  10 July 2018, Mrs S again said she wanted UKI to ask 
a supermarket and the local authority for any CCTV. But I cant see that UKI did that. Mrs S 
later made her own enquiries and said she was told CCTV isnt kept for more  than around  a 
month. But Ive seen no evidence that the roundabout in question was covered by CCTV. So 
I dont know if there  was any CCTV that would have helped. But I think  UKI should have 
made enquiries to establish that.
Another thing  UKI failed  to do was contact the witness Mrs S put forward  earlier  than they 
did. In her statement  dated 10 July 2018,  Mrs S gave UKI the name and mobile number  of 
someone she said witnessed the incident  at the roundabout. But it would  appear  that UKI 
overlooked that so they didnt contact  the witness straightaway. That was clearly an error on 
UKIs part. UKI wrote to the other drivers solicitor on 9 October 2018, agreeing to pay the 
claim for whiplash injury but proposing a 50/50  split on liability for the accident. But the other 
driver didnt agree  to a split in liability as they felt Mrs Ss husband was fully to blame.
After Mrs S insisted that she had provided  the witness details UKI looked into it again and 
found that Mrs S had indeed provided  the witness name and number on 10 July. On 
10 December 2018, UKI said they called the witness. Ive seen UKIs telephone summary of 
that call which says:  Made  contact  with the witness - he asked where I was calling from and 
what I wanted, I advised that I was calling from [UKI] in relation to an accident  that he 
Ref: DRN21823683witnessed and he said that he hasn't seen anything and put the phone  down  on me he 
clearly didn't want to co-operate and wouldn't give me a chance to explain any further.
Two days late on 12 December 2018,  UKI wrote to the other drivers solicitor and admitted 
full liability on Mrs Ss behalf. So while UKI delayed  contacting the witness, Im satisfied that 
they did so on 10 December and felt that the witness was uncooperative and wouldnt 
support Mrs Ss case.  Both Mrs S and the witness  later said that the witness  had changed 
his number in October  2018. But UKI couldnt  have known that and they called the number 
they were given by Mrs S. 
But before accepting liability Im satisfied that UKI did investigate and consider the other 
available evidence. Both the other driver and Mrs S provided a number of photographs of 
their respective cars;  Mrs S provided  a photo of the other driver tailgating  her car; the aerial 
photos and diagrams Mrs S provided; the medical  evidence of the other driver; the 
statements of Mrs S and the other driver; and engineering evidence.
UKI asked  an engineer  to examine Mrs Ss car to see if there was any damage that was 
consistent with the damage the other driver said Mrs S caused  to her car. The other driver 
provided a photo  of the damage to her car. While Mrs S said the black car had a pre-existing 
dent in the drivers  side door, the photo  of damage the other  driver  provided was to the front, 
right hand  corner of her car which is some distance from the drivers side door.  It showed a 
number of white scratch marks  with some blue colouring. Mrs Ss car is dark blue. The 
scratches are consistent with that part of the car having rubbed  against a hard surface. The 
engineer examined  Mrs Ss car on 12 July 2018.  He said there was damage  all over it. 
Clearly there was damage caused as a result of previous  incidents.  But the engineer found 
damage to the left front wheel arch and left front corner of the bumper that was consistent 
with having caused the damage to the other drivers  car by scrapping  against it as she 
described the accident happening. There was black paint residue on the corner of Mrs Ss 
bumper. The other car was black. And on the left wheel arch there  was white  scratch  marks 
and damage similar  to that seen on the black car. The height  of the damage on both cars 
matched. The engineers  view was the damage  to Mrs Ss car was as a result  of coming into 
contact with another car as opposed to another object, such as a lamp post. But there  was 
clearly also damage to the front left side of Mrs Ss cars bumper from incidents unrelated to 
the incident in question. For example, there  was red paint residue on the bumper which  likely 
came as a result of the car coming  into contact with something red. But UKI concluded  the 
damage to both cars was consistent  with the accident circumstances described by the other 
driver. I think that was a reasonable  conclusion to reach.
In May 2019, Mrs S provided a one-page statement she obtained from the witness  she said 
saw what happened. The evidence of the witness in the main does support Mrs Ss version 
of events as to what happened at the roundabout.  But there  are also a number of significant 
inconsistencies. For example, the witness said the black  car driver got out of her car to 
threaten [Mrs S and her] family stating that she will put a fake claim. In her detailed  
statement in July 2018, Mrs S made no mention of the other driver leaving her car or saying 
she would  make a fake claim when  the first incident  at the roundabout happened. But in an 
email to our service in March 2019,  Mrs S said the other driver was abusive and threatened 
to make a fake claim after the second  incident  where Mrs S said the other driver bumped 
into the back of her car and Mrs S got out to inspect. In that email Mrs S also said the 
witness saw what happened  during  the second incident. But the witness in his statement 
only said he saw the first incident  at the roundabout,  not the subsequent incident. But from 
the evidence as I understand it from both Mrs S and the other  driver,  the second incident 
happened at a separate location to the first. After the first incident at the roundabout both 
Ref: DRN21823684parties drove  off and both turned left at the lights and drove along that road and it was at that 
stage the second incident happened.  The witness  put forward by Mrs S was a pedestrian so 
I dont think he could  have  witnessed the second incident as Mrs S claimed. And I think if he 
did witness the second incident  he would  have mentioned that in his statement but he didnt.
In Mrs Ss email to us in March 2019,  she said after the second incident which was seen by 
the witness it was at that point she said she got the witness details. But that is completely 
contradictory to what  she said before. UKIs  contact notes say she told them  that sometime 
after the incident her husband  parked  on the side of a road in a residential area to smoke a 
cigarette. And after around five to 15 minutes  the witness  approached them  and said he 
witnessed the incident. Given the significant inconsistencies, I think  that had UKI obtained a 
statement from the witness  before they accepted  liability it wouldnt have changed their 
decision. 
UKI said if the events  happened as suggested by Mrs S, they would have  expected her to 
have reported  it to the police and to UKI, but she didnt. The witness said the other driver 
was abusive and threatened to make  a fake insurance claim  during  the first incident; 
similarly Mrs S said the other driver was abusive  and threatened to make a fake claim during 
the second incident; Mrs S said that on seeing the other drivers damaged  car and her poor 
driving she suspected  the other  driver to be a drug dealer or insurance  scammer and not 
qualified to drive; that there was a very strong smell of cannabis  coming from the other 
drivers car; and that she appeared disorientated  and disorderly. I think  UKI were 
reasonable in concluding  that, given the circumstances,  by not reporting the incident, 
Mrs Ss version of events  would have lacked credibility were  the matter  to have gone to 
court.
In reaching their decision UKI also took into account the medical evidence. And I think  that 
was reasonable  as the other drivers  version of events is further supported by the medical  
evidence. I know Mrs S wanted to see that information but it wasnt  given to her as it 
contains personal, sensitive and medical information  of the other driver. But like UKI I have 
seen it. And the doctor who assessed her concluded her injury  was consistent with the 
accident as she described. I know Mrs S feels no injury could have been caused as there  
was no impact. But there is evidence to support there was an impact.  And even though it 
would have been minor impact, minor injury such as whiplash can still be caused. And that 
was confirmed by the doctor who examined the other driver.
I do think UKI should have tried to find out if there was relevant CCTV footage but they 
didnt. But I dont know if there was any footage and whether or not it would have helped 
Mrs Ss case. But on the evidence  Ive seen I think UKIs decision to accept liability  was 
reasonable which is why Im not upholding this complaint.
Finally, I want  to address  a point Mrs S made. She said the claim the other  driver  made  was 
only for whiplash  injury and not for the damage to her car. Mrs S said this shows that the 
other driver accepted Mrs Ss car didnt cause the damage. And in that case if there  was no 
damage no injury could be caused. I can understand why Mrs S made that point. But it might  
help if I explain that personal injury  claims fall into a category of claims known as uninsured  
losses. The damage to the other  drivers car would be an insured loss provided  she had 
comprehensive cover. So, I wouldnt expect the other drivers insurer to have claimed for the 
damage to her car and the whiplash  injury  at the same  time. The insurer would only be 
responsible for the damage to the car. And as the other driver has done in this case she got 
her own solicitor to claim for the whiplash injury. Where that happens its usual for the 
insurer of the car to wait until the solicitor  deals with the uninsured losses claim first, during 
Ref: DRN21823685which the insurers expectation is that the solicitor would get an admission  of liability  form the 
other insurer (in this case UKI) before proceeding with the claim for damage to the car. So, 
in Mrs Ss case  the solicitor acting  for the other  driver  has succeeding in getting UKI to 
accept Mrs Ss husband was liable for the accident. The whiplash  claim has been concluded. 
So, if it hasnt already happened, I would expect the other drivers insurer  to claim for the 
damage to their car. But even if they dont claim for the damage to their car, it doesnt mean 
the accident never happened. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020. 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2182368