K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building  Society  refused  to process his charge back claims.
background 
Mr M contacted Nationwide in May 2017  to dispute two payments on his credit  card.  He said 
a payment of 1371.20 euros  on 4 April 2017  should in fact have  been  137.12  euros and that 
another payment for 1,000 euros on 18 April had only been  a pre-authorisation so shouldnt  
have been taken at all.
Nationwide opened  a chargeback claim but asked for more information,  in particular a copy 
of the booking terms and conditions, any invoices  and receipts and information to show Mr M 
had tried to resolve  it with the retailer direct. Mr M says he provided a copy of the payments 
but due to a problem with Nationwides systems  the documents  werent uploaded properly. 
He says he sent these documents  in several  times over the months.
Mr M says in March 2018 he was told by Nationwide that his chargeback claim was now out 
of time. But he says he sent in the necessary documents when asked and if theres  been a 
delay, hes not responsible for that. For that reason he feels  Nationwide should now refund 
the disputed amounts together  with interest.
Nationwide acknowledged  that thered been a problem with its systems  that meant when it 
tried to scan in the documents sent by Mr M, they became illegible. As a result Mr M had had 
to re-send them several times. It offered him £50 for any inconvenience this had caused.
But it didnt agree this was the reason the charge backs  couldnt  be processed.  It said it 
needed more  information about  the payments and the steps Mr M had taken to resolve it 
before it could go ahead and although  it had asked Mr M for this several times, the 
information hed sent in wasnt sufficient  to show the payments hadnt  been authorised.  For 
that reason it hadnt been able to go ahead with the chargeback claim. It had also 
considered if it could deal with this under s75 but it hadnt seen any information to show 
thered been misrepresentation  or a breach of contract, so that hadnt  been an option.
Our investigator felt Nationwides offer was fair. He said the chargeback scheme  was a 
voluntary one and there could be no guarantee of a refund. It was for the business  to decide 
if there was a reasonable prospect of success and if not, then it could reasonably  refuse to 
raise it with the retailers bank. For that reason he could only recommend a refund if there 
was information  to show Nationwide had made an error that prevented the chargeback from 
succeeding. But in this case, the documents sent in by Mr M didnt show  thered been  a 
mistake with the two payments so, on balance,  even if theyd been received sooner, he 
couldnt say the claims  would  have succeeded. For that reason he felt Nationwides offer of 
£50 for Mr Ms inconvenience in having  to re-submit  his documents several times was 
reasonable and he wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
As Mr T didnt agree, the complaint has now been  referred to an ombudsman  for a decision.
Ref: DRN27448882my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the; circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres no information  on any 
particular issue, or the information available is disputed as it is here on some points, then 
Ive made  my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other words whats more  likely than 
not to have happened.
As the investigator  has said the chargeback scheme is a voluntary one and while Nationwide  
doesnt set the rules  it is required  to comply with them.  This includes both what can be 
processed under a chargeback and the time limits for doing so. In general a claim needs to 
be put forward within 120 days  of the payment.
Ive seen Mr M feels hes been treated unfairly and that, if there was a delay, this was 
caused by Nationwide so it should  now refund  him the disputed  amounts. However,  although 
Id agree there were problems with Nationwides  systems that caused problems in scanning 
in the documents sent by Mr M, Im not satisfied this was the only reason his claim couldnt 
go forward.
Nationwide doesnt  have to investigate the claim in detail but its entitled to ask for more  
information to decide if its likely to succeed.  In this case Ive seen it asked Mr M for more 
information about the payments, including the terms and conditions  of the booking, any 
invoices or receipts  and evidence of the contact Mr M had had with the retailer.  And it asked  
for this several times between 9 May and 27 November 2017.
Ive seen Mr M sent in various documents, including a bill showing what he said was the 
correct amount due. But having considered  these documents, I havent seen anything  that 
shows that the payment of 1,000  euros  was only a pre-authorisation. In the same way I cant 
see anything in the information  sent in by Mr M to show that the payment of 1,371.20 euros  
was incorrect or, if it was, what the correct sum should  have been.  Ive seen Mr M says it 
should have been 137.12 euros  which suggests  a simple mistake  in inputting the figures 
before payment. But the bill sent in by Mr M shows an outstanding amount of 224.10 euros  
which is very different  and its difficult to say that this relates to the disputed payment. 
In the circumstances I dont think Nationwide was unreasonable in deciding it didnt have 
enough information to raise the charge backs in this case. And for that reason even if the 
documents had been received sooner,  I cant  say the outcome would have been any 
different. 
Ive seen Nationwide also considered whether the claim  could be dealt with under the 
statutory powers  in s75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. But as Nationwide  had said,  even if it 
was still in time to do so, it would first need to see evidence that thered been  a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation and on the information  sent in so far, it didnt feel that was the 
case. Again  looking  at the documents provided,  I dont  think  that was unreasonable.
Ive seen Nationwide has offered Mr M £50 for his trouble in having to re-submit  his 
documents several times.  I think this is fair for the frustration and inconvenience it 
undoubtedly caused and in line with what  Id have directed for a problem of this type.  But for 
the reasons given I wont be asking Nationwide to re fund the disputed  payments to Mr M.
Ref: DRN27448883my final decision
my final decision if that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and direct Nationwide  to pay Mr M 
£50 for his inconvenience as a result of its systems  issues. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2744888