K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about U K Insurance Limited  and the way it has dealt with a claim he made 
under a car insurance  policy after an accident.
background
In August  2018  Mr K alleged to UKI that he had been involved in an accident whereby hed 
collided into the rear of a vehicle and then into some railings. He said he had four 
passengers in the car and the accident occurred  largely because  he was wearing flip-flops  
when driving and something  got caught.  He estimated he was travelling at around  10 mph at 
the time of the collision.
UKI had a number of concerns about the truthfulness of what was being  presented  and 
outlined these to Mr K. There is a large number and I wont mention all here but some 
include;
One passenger  saying the collision  was head-on and remembers  the other  vehicle 
facing them
Another passenger  describes the other  vehicle remaining  at the scene when getting 
out of the vehicle  whereas another says the vehicle was not there
Mr K described a phone being damaged in the vehicle whereas another passenger 
said no phones were  damaged
Mr K and passengers  said they didnt notice any issue with the steering  or a wheel of 
the car and it drove normally whereas the vehicle had significant damage around the 
front nearside wheel area, particularly the steering arm which was fractured and the 
wheel was detached from the steering. UKI said this would have meant  no control of 
the front nearside wheel significantly impacting the ability to control steering and 
direction.
The damage is not consistent with a 10 mph impact but far more serious
UKI rejected Mr Ks claim citing the following policy wording;
Fraud 
You must be honest in your dealings  with us at all times.  
We will not pay a claim that is in any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated. 
If you, any person  insured under this policy or anyone  acting on your behalf 
attempts to deceive  us or knowingly makes a fraudulent, false or exaggerated 
claim: 
Your policy may be cancelled.  
We may reject your claim and any subsequent claims. 
We may keep any premium you have paid. 
What happens if we discover fraud:  
We have the right to cancel any other products you hold with us and share 
information about  your behaviour with other organisations to prevent further 
fraud. 
We may also involve the relevant authorities who are empowered to bring 
criminal proceedings. If a fraudulent,  false or exaggerated claim has been made  
under any other  policy you hold with us, we may cancel  this policy.  
Ultimately, our investigator who looked  into Mr Ks complaint didnt think UKI had treated him 
unfairly. He explained that a crash investigators  report was clear  that because  of the 
Ref: DRN24541062damage to Mr Ks wheel  the vehicle couldnt have been driven back  to Mr Ks home.  And 
taking everything into account the accident didnt happen as alleged by Mr K.
Mr K disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We are set-up by law to resolve  complaints quickly and with minimal  formality. Among other 
things this means were  not bound by strict  rules of evidence that a court  is and so we can 
take evidence,  for example, in more  informal ways. Where an insurer  cites the policy  fraud 
condition as a reason  to reject a claim I think  it should base that decision on robust 
evidence. I say this because it is a serious  accusation to make  and can have consequences 
that reach beyond the mere claim decision itself. That said,  Im not making a determination 
on whether the claim was fraudulent or not but whether UKI has acted fairly and reasonably  
in all the circumstances, which  include the reliance on the fraud  condition.
There is no dispute that the policy allows UKI to reject a claim in circumstances where Mr K 
attempts to deceive UKI, or knowingly makes a fraudulent, false  or exaggerated claim. 
Thats made clear in the policy  under  a section headed Fraud.  The crux of this case 
concerns whether UKI acted fairly  in refusing to pay Mr Ks claim concerning  an accident he 
alleged occurred in August 2018. 
Im mindful relevant industry  rules  (ICOBS  8.1.1  R (3)) say that UKI must not unreasonably 
reject a claim. 
Im persuaded by all the information  that UKI carried  out a sufficient and reasonable 
investigation before reaching a decision to reject  Mr Ks claim. And Im persuaded by the 
evidence that a number of inconsistencies  within the accounts given by the various people 
said to have been present were cause for UKI to be concerned about the veracity of what 
was alleged to have occurred.
In addition to the inconsistencies is the engineers observation about the front nearside 
wheel on Mr Ks car. The damage is said to be substantial including the wheel, tyre, the 
complete suspension and steering assembly  causing detachment  from the steering and 
driveline and most of the suspension. And the impact  is noted to be far greater than the 
speed Mr K said he was travelling at. In the engineers  expert opinion  it would  have been  
entirely impossible to steer the vehicle. This opinion  completely contradicts Mr Ks version  as 
to the manner in which  he drove his car home.  
I am satisfied that it is fair for UKI to rely on the opinion  of the expert  in reaching its 
assessment and decision on Mr Ks claim. In the circumstances there  is persuasive evidence  
that shows, on the balance of probabilities, that Mr K has not been honest in his dealings 
with UKI. He has presented a total loss claim involving a number of parties who may present 
personal injury claims in the future, if they havent  done so already. As such, UKI has to be 
able to rely on the veracity of the account  Mr K presents in his claim. In all the circumstances 
Im satisfied UKI has shown that, on balance, Mr K hasnt  been honest and that allows  UKI 
to reject his claim for the total loss of his car. 
Ref: DRN24541063This decision does  not comment  whatsoever  on any other  claims made by third parties  and 
would be a matter  ultimately for a court.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2454106