K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that their loan from Nationwide Building  Society  wasnt affordable  for 
them and shouldnt  have  been made to them.
background
Mr and Mrs N made  an online application for a loan from Nationwide  in January  2013. The 
loan was for £12,000 repayable over five years by monthly payments of £331.65. The loan 
was repaid in January 2016 when Mr and Mrs N paid £6,576.60 to close the loan. Mr and 
Mrs N complained to Nationwide in July 2018 that the loan wasnt affordable for them  and 
shouldnt have been made  to them. And they asked it to refund the interest  that theyd paid 
on the loan for at least the first two years. They werent satisfied with Nationwides  response 
so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He concluded that 
Nationwide had dealt  with Mr and Mrs Ns complaint  fairly. And he said that it was affordable  
for them at the time of their application  and that all necessary  checks  were undertaken.
Mr and Mrs N have asked for their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Mr N 
says, in summary, that the reason that they didnt miss any payments was because he was 
borrowing from other sources to meet his living  expenses to ensure that they didnt  default  
on the loan. And he says that the final loan repayment to Nationwide  was only possible 
because they borrowed from another lender to pay off the outstanding amount of the loan. 
And he says that he still believes that the loan was unaffordable at the time that it was given 
to them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A lender should make proportionate checks about the affordability of a loan before lending  to 
a customer. What is proportionate  will depend on the circumstances of the loan. Mr and 
Mrs N applied for the loan online in January 2013.  They provided details of their income, 
expenditure and credit  card debts and said that the purpose of the loan was to consolidate 
their credit cards debts.  
The information that they provided showed that Mr Ns monthly income was £2,250, Mrs Ns 
monthly income was £600, their rent was £695  each month and that they owed  a total of 
£11,450 on six credit cards. On the basis of the information that theyd provided, Nationwide 
said that it calculated  that they had a disposable income of £1,602. And it says that it made  a 
credit check  against Mr and Mrs N and it obtained a credit score for them. And it says that 
their loan application was approved and that they were granted a loan of £12,000 repayable  
over five years by monthly  repayments  of £331.65.  
I consider that Nationwide made  proportionate checks before the loan was made  to Mr and 
Mrs N. They  havent provided  any evidence to show that the income information that they 
declared was incorrect.  The loan was to be used  to repay their credit card debts and they 
didnt declare any other loans on their application.  So I consider that it was fair and 
reasonable for Nationwide  to rely on the incomes that Mr and Mrs N had declared - and to 
Ref: DRN20689812conclude that a monthly repayment of £331.65  was affordable form them  from their declared  
joint monthly income of £2,850 on the basis of the information that theyd submitted. 
Mr and Mrs N were able to make all of the monthly payments due under the loan  and they 
repaid the loan early in January 2016 when  they made a payment  of £6,576.60 to close  the 
loan. Mr N says that they were only able to do because they borrowed from other sources 
and then took out a loan from another provider. But Im not persuaded that the loan wasnt 
affordable for them at the time that it was taken out. 
Nationwide says that the loan was made on a non-advised basis  and that Mr and Mrs N 
had the right to withdraw from the loan if they didnt want to go ahead with it  but didnt  do 
so.
Mr N says that he lost his job in June 2013 and that he asked Nationwide to suspend interest 
on the loan. But Nationwides account  records show that it contacted Mr N in April 2014 
about arrears on his current account  and that he then told it that hed lost his job. It 
contacted him later that month because it had concerns about his loan repayments  and it 
reduced his overdraft limit. It also wrote  to Mr and Mrs N and invited  them to contact it about 
the loan  but its records show that they didnt do so. But they continued to make  their loan 
repayments and Mr N says that he returned  to work in July 2015. The loan was then repaid 
in January 2016.
A lender is required to respond positively and sympathetically to any financial difficulties that 
a customer is experiencing. I consider that Nationwide did respond positively and 
sympathetically to Mr and Mrs Ns financial  difficulties when it became aware  that Mr N had 
lost his job. And Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show  that Nationwide  
has acted incorrectly in connection with Mr and Mrs Ns loan.
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  
Nationwide to refund any interest to Mr and Mrs N or to pay them  any compensation  or to 
take any other action  in response to their complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2068981