K820x#14complaint
Mr M was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident. Easi-Drive  Limited  were  instructed to 
manage the repairs to his car. Mr M is unhappy  with the quality of the repairs.
background
Mr M was involved in a road traffic accident  in September 2018. He contacted a vehicle 
recovery company (RR) who instructed Easi-Drive  to provide Mr M with a hire car, and to 
manage the repairs to his car through RRs network  of approved garages.  The repairs  were 
not done to an acceptable  standard and Easi-Drive obtained an independent  engineers 
report which confirmed this. The engineer said the repairers should  do the repairs  again,  but 
Mr M didnt  want  them  to.
Mr M has complained that:
He didnt authorise his car being  taken  to the repairers, and wanted it repaired by a 
main dealer.
He told Easi-Drive not to pay the repairers,  but they did anyway.
Easi-Drive  wont  cover  the cost of his car being  repaired  by a main  dealer.
Easi-Drive  hasnt  confirmed their involvement  in his claim,  what their costs  are or 
whether theyve now stopped acting for him.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator  under the rules  of the 
Legal Ombudsman. This means that we can look at the service provided by Easi-Drive, but 
we cant look at the service provided by any third party such as RR or the repairers.
Our investigator found that Easi-Drive  acted reasonably. He felt theyd given Mr M enough 
information about what they would  do for him, that the repairers were authorised by RR and 
agreed to by Mr M, that it was reasonable for the repairers to be paid, that the work  identified 
by the independent  engineer was authorised to the value approved by the engineer, and that 
Easi-Drive had confirmed  they wouldnt be taking any further action  on the claim.
Mr M disagreed with the investigator.  He feels the investigator has misunderstood his 
complaint and he doesnt think  its possible to reach  any decision without listening to the 
phone calls he had with Easi-Drive.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Copies of the calls with Mr M arent available. When Mr M dealt with Easi-Drive  there  wasnt 
a requirement for them to record calls or to keep any recorded  calls. While Easi-Drive did 
record calls, they havent been able to provide us with a copy  of them due to technical  
problems. I can appreciate Mr M feels that Easi-Drive are trying  to hide something, but it 
wouldnt be fair for me to say theyve  done something wrong just because  they havent  been 
able to provide  call recordings. In the circumstances I think  its fair for me to make a decision 
on the evidence  thats available.
Ref: DRN28543992While I dont doubt that Mr M had asked  for his car to be repaired by a main dealer, Ive seen 
that RR authorised  the use of the repairers  and Mr M agreed to this at the time. Because of 
this I cant say that Easi-Drive did anything  wrong by allowing Mr Ms car to be repaired.
As an accident management  company,  Easi-Drives  role was to manage the repair to Mr Ms 
car, and to deal with the third party insurer to arrange payment  for this. This was confirmed 
in the paperwork  Mr M signed on 14 September 2018. Easi-Drive werent charging Mr M for 
this, which  is why they didnt give him any cost details. As the repairs  were done, it wouldnt 
be right for Easi-Drive not to pay for these, and I dont think theyve done anything  wrong by 
making payment   even though Mr M didnt want them to.
The fact that Mr Ms car was not repaired to an acceptable standard  is not in dispute. The 
independent engineer said the work needed  redoing, and valued the cost of this work at 
around £2,000.  The engineer also said that the repairers should  redo the work. 
I appreciate that Mr M doesnt want the repairers to do the work, given they didnt do it right 
first time, and he would  prefer his car to be repaired  by a main dealer. Easi-Drive  were able 
to authorise the repairs to be redone but only to the value stated by the engineer. 
Unfortunately, the main  dealer quote was more than double that of the engineers  value, so 
Easi-Drive couldnt  do what  Mr M wanted.  
I understand Mr Ms frustration about  this, but it wouldnt  be fair to expect Easi-Drive to do 
something they werent authorised to. I also cant hold them  responsible for the actions of 
the repairers, so I cant ask them to pay the difference  between  the engineers value and the 
main dealers quote.
Ive seen that RR are now dealing with the repairers and Mr M to try to resolve this situation, 
and Easi-Drive has told Mr M they were taking  a back seat.  While this is not telling  Mr M 
that they are no longer acting for him, from the information Easi-Drive have provided its 
reasonable to say that this now the case.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2854399