K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an insurance  policy taken  out in 2009 alongside a hire-purchase  
agreement. The policy covered Mrs G for life, critical illness  and accident  or sickness. Mrs G 
says Black Horse Limited mis-sold her the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of insurance on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mrs G says the policy was automatically added to her credit agreement  and when  she asked 
about it she was told that her application  wouldnt be approved without this cover.  Mrs G also 
says she felt pressured into taking out the policy. But she cant remember  how the policy 
was sold to her, and Ive not seen  any other  evidence to support what  shes  said.  And so I 
cant fairly and reasonably  conclude that she was pressured  into taking out the cover. Ive 
considered what  Mrs G has said about the policy not being optional,  but Ive also considered 
that this policy was sold to her around  10 years ago  which  is also something I have to keep 
in mind when deciding what is more likely to have happened. 
Black Horse  says that Mrs Gs credit  application  was already approved when  it contacted her 
by phone to discuss  the insurance.  It has also provided a copy of a call script which  it says 
the sales person  wouldve been  instructed to follow for all telephone sales around the time, 
and a copy of a demands and needs statement which  it says was completed during  the sale 
of the insurance.  And without any evidence to contradict what  Black Horse has said about  
how the policy was sold  Ive relied on this evidence to reach my decision.  Ive looked at the 
call script  and Ive seen that it instructed  the sales person to present the policy  as optional 
and obtain Mrs Gs consent to add it to her account. And the demands and needs statement 
suggests that Mrs G agreed to Black Horses recommendation to take out the policy.  
So taking everything into account I think Black Horse made  it clear  that Mrs G didnt have to 
take out the policy and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this now.
Black Horse  recommended  the cover to Mrs G so it had to check that the policy  was right for 
her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the cover and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover. The demands and needs statement  records  that 
Mrs G didnt have any other means  of making  her repayments if she was to fall seriously  ill 
or had an accident  which  meant she was unable to work. 
Its possible the information Black Horse  gave Mrs G about the policy wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the policy  would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN28770212This means  Black Horse doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the policy  to Mrs G. But 
Black Horse  will pay back some of the cost of the policy to Mrs G because: 
Black  Horse got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
insurance premium) - so it should have  told Mrs G about that. Because Black  Horse 
didnt tell Mrs G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Black Horse has basically offered  to pay back  the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the insurance premium - and I think  
that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Black Horse  has to pay back to Mrs G any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the insurance premium. Black Horse should also pay back  to Mrs G any extra 
interest she paid because of that.
Black Horse  should pay back to Mrs G the extra she paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of the insurance  premium. 
Black Horse  should also pay Mrs G 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs G can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The policy wasnt mis-sold   so Black Horse  Limited does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the policy to Mrs G.
But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Mrs G any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the insurance premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2877021