complaint
Mr T and Mrs W complain that they were mis-sold a number of packaged  bank accounts  by
Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds).
background
Mr T held a fee free account  with Lloyds from November 1992.
Mr T upgraded to a Gold Added  Value Account (GAVA) which  incurred a monthly  fee some 
time before September 2001.
Mr T further  upgraded to a Platinum Added Value Account (PAVA) which  incurred a monthly  
fee in December 2001.
Mr T further  upgraded to a Premier Added Value  Account (PRAVA) which incurred a monthly 
fee in March 2005. Mrs W was added to the PRAVA account in June 2013.
Lloyds has refunded the fees of Mr Ts GAVA and PAVA with appropriate interest.
Prior to joining Mr T in the joint PRAVA,  Mrs W had also held a GAVA  and a PAVA,  and
Lloyds has offered to refund  the fees from those accounts with appropriate  interest.
Mr T also complained about having  a PRAVA  at the same time that his wife had a PAVA. 
This aspect  of the complaint has been considered and an ombudsmans  decision issued 
under a separate case at this service and I cannot revisit that aspect of his complaint.
So the complaint Im looking at in this case is solely the sale of the PRAVA to Mr T in March
2005, which then became  a joint PRAVA  with Mrs W in June 2013.
Mr T and Mrs W say Mr T was not aware that he could  have  had a fee free account when he 
took out the PRAVA and that it was not suitable,  so they say that the PRAVA was mis-sold.
Lloyds has said that the PRAVA  was not mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr T and Mrs Ws complaint and decided  that the PRAVA  wasnt  
mis-sold. Mr T and Mrs W disagree so the complaint  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained how we handle
K820x#14
Ref: DRN2831824complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr T and Mrs Ws complaint.
In my view,  I dont think  Mr T and Mrs W lost out when Mr T was sold the PRAVA and Ill 
explain why.
I need to consider whether or not Mr T was aware the PRAVA  was optional and whether he 
was given a clear choice in taking out the account in March  2005.
I think its more likely than not that he was aware and I say this for the following reasons. 
Lloyds has provided  evidence that Mr T had previously had a fee free account for many
years. And whilst I dont  doubt his honest  recollections I think  its more likely than not that in 
March 2005 Mr T was aware that both Lloyds  and other banks and financial institutions 
offered continuing  fee free bank accounts.  I say this because they were widely  advertised  in 
a competitive market  and if Mr T hadnt wanted to pay a fee for an account, I think  he would 
have questioned what he was being  offered  and sought an alternative  without a fee 
elsewhere.
So I think Mr T was aware  he had a choice and chose to take out the PRAVA.
Lloyds advised  Mr T to take out the PRAVA. So, Lloyds needed to provide Mr T with 
sufficient information  about it to make an informed choice. And in recommending  the 
PRAVA, it also needed to take adequate  steps to ensure that the PRAVA was a reasonable 
fit for Mr Ts circumstances at the time.
The PRAVA contained a range of benefits including worldwide travel  insurance with winter  
sports, full AA car breakdown cover, payment card protection,  mobile phone  insurance, 
purchase protection, and airport lounge access. And it offered a fee free and better  interest 
rate overdraft limit and higher  rates  on savings  accounts.
I dont know what Lloyds  said or what information  it gave  Mr T about  the PRAVA but I think it 
wouldve been of interest to him. Hed previous had a GAVA and a PAVA  and so was
familiar with packaged bank accounts,  what they offered and what they cost. When he took 
out the PRAVA he had a car, travelled abroad regularly and was interested in using an 
overdraft facility. He registered his mobile phone for insurance in April 2005, made a claim 
on his travel insurance in September  2006.  He used the car breakdown  service  several  
times in the years  that followed and he benefitted from the accounts financial offerings.
So I think the PRAVA was useful  to him in his circumstances in March 2005 and to Mr T and
Mrs W later when she joined the account.
So in my view Mr T knew he had a choice when he took out the PRAVA  and he chose to 
take it out. I think the PRAVA was suitable for Mr T and later Mrs W. And there  was no 
information that Mr T didnt receive from Lloyds that would likely have put him off taking it 
out. So I dont  think Mr T and Mrs W lost out by Mr T taking out the PRAVA.
Ref: DRN2831824my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr T and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 December 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2831824