K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the delay in assistance following a claim against his breakdown policy  
with U K Insurance Limited,  trading  as Direct  Line.  Green Flag provides the breakdown 
cover. 
background
In January 2019, Mr Ks car had a flat tyre. He called Green  Flag for assistance at 10.42pm.  
Mr K didnt have a spare tyre, so Green  Flag needed to recover Mr Ks car, rather than repair 
it at the roadside.  There was a delay in the recovery agent reaching  Mr K. Green Flag said 
that its recovery agent was stuck  in traffic  caused by a heavily attended, late evening  football 
game. The recovery agent reached  Mr K at almost  2am. 
Mr K says that he had to wait an unacceptable length of time for the recovery agent. He says 
that Green  Flag didnt  tell him the truth about the delay. Mr K says he spoke directly with the 
recovery agent who said that he was instructed a few hours after Mr K phoned Green Flag 
for assistance. Mr K wants compensation for the delay.  
Our investigator didnt  think that Green Flag had treated Mr K unfairly. He said Green Flag 
had apologised  for the delay but said it was out of its control due to unusually  heavy traffic. 
The investigator said that Mr Ks policy doesnt  say how long assistance  might take to arrive 
but hed considered whether the delay was reasonable in the circumstances. He thought  that 
it was, as there was significant additional traffic because of the football match.  The 
investigator said that Green Flag wasnt responsible for the delay.  
The investigator said that Green Flag did what it could to update Mr K about the estimated 
time of arrival of the assistance. He said that, given the threatening and abusive language  
Mr K used, Green  Flag did more than hed expect it to do. Thats because Mr Ks policy 
provides that Green Flag may cancel the attendance  of the recovery  agent  and his policy  in 
the circumstances that arose here.  But Green Flag went on to assist Mr K.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator. He said he had various  text updates  from Green Flag 
about the estimated time of arrival  but when the recovery agent arrived,  he said that hed 
received the instruction only a short while before. Mr K says that he didnt get home until 
2.30am and then waited  until 3pm for the trailer. Mr K wants to know  where the driver was 
when he received Green Flags instruction. He says that Green Flag failed to provide the 
service he paid for. Mr K asked that an ombudsman consider  his complaint and said that 
Green Flag should be punished. 
Mr K gave us some  further comments. He said that he was abusive  after hed waited for 
three hours in freezing  weather and after Green Flag had continually  lied to him. Mr K denies 
that he was threatening. He says the recovery agent didnt come from near the football  
ground. Mr K says that Green Flag isnt capable of giving an adequate response to a 
breakdown. He says that his wife, who suffers from ill health, had to pick him up and they 
didnt get to bed until 3am.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me.
Ref: DRN23167882my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for substantially the same reasons.
Mr Ks policy  doesnt say how long hed have  to wait for assistance. Wed  expect his wait to 
be reasonable in the circumstances. I think it was here. Green Flags recovery agents were 
caught up in considerable  traffic  caused  by a major,  late night football game. That affected 
how long it took to allocate a recovery agent to Mr K. Green Flag kept Mr K updated  about  
the estimated  time of arrival. I think that Green  Flag did what it could to provide a service  in 
unusually difficult conditions. 
Mr K believes that Green Flag lied to him about when it instructed the recovery agent. 
Green Flag says that the recovery  agent  would have received  the instructions a short  time 
before he arrived with Mr K. Thats because  each request for assistance  is stored  at its 
central control and dispatched when the nearest  recovery  driver becomes  available. The 
despatch team allocates jobs based on several  factors, such as safety, location, driving 
hours and recovery needs.
I dont think that the recovery  agents  location at the time he received the instructions from 
Green Flag alters the outcome here.  It may well be that the recovery agent wasnt  near the 
football ground immediately before he arrived with Mr K. But Im satisfied that unusual traffic 
congestion caused difficulties and delays  in Green  Flags allocation  of jobs on the night 
Mr Ks car broke down .
I do appreciate that the significant delay  was frustrating for Mr K. Based on what  Ive seen, I 
think that Green Flag did what  it could  to get appropriate assistance to Mr K. Its actions 
werent entirely visible to Mr K or, indeed,  the recovery agent. That no doubt  added to the 
frustration. 
Green Flag did more that it was required to do here. Ive seen extracts  of Mr Ks abusive 
phone calls with Green Flag.  As the investigator  pointed out, under  the terms of Mr Ks 
policy, Green Flag isnt obliged to help Mr K if hes threatening or abusive. Green Flag could 
have refused to help Mr K but it didnt do so.
Mr K says that Green  Flag should be punished.  Thats not our role. We offer an informal 
dispute resolution service  and have no regulatory  or disciplinary role in relation to 
Green Flag. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr K but I dont think that Green Flag treated him unfairly or 
unreasonably. I dont think its required to pay Mr K compensation for the delay in this case.  
Ref: DRN23167883my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2316788