K822xcomplaint
Miss G complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited unfairly settled a claim against
her motor insurance policy and asked  her to pay the policy excess.
background
Miss G was involved  in what she said was a minor car accident which wasnt  her fault. She
said her car wasnt damaged and there was only a slight  dent to the other car. So she was
unhappy when  Calpe  decided that she was at fault and settled  the other drivers claim
against her, asked her to pay a policy excess of about £2,700 and then cancelled  her policy.
She felt that Calpe hadnt fairly investigated liability or assessed the claim costs properly,
and hadnt asked her view on that. But Calpe  said theyd  acted  in accordance  with the terms
of her policy.
The adjudicator recommended that Miss Gs complaint  should  be partly  upheld. She thought  
that Calpe  were entitled to payment of the excess and that theyd handled the claim fairly
and reasonably. But she felt that they shouldnt have  cancelled her policy without refunding
part of the premium, and that they should  pay Miss G compensation of £100  for
their poor service.
Miss G didnt  agree. Calpe accepted  the adjudicators recommendation about compensation.
but otherwise  didnt  agree. So the case was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional 
decision on 6 November  2019, saying that I intended to partly uphold  the complaint.
Since then Calpe have said theyve no additional comments to make. Miss G has responded 
and Ive dealt  with that below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
liability
Miss G was unhappy at being asked to pay a high policy excess. She felt that the accident
wasnt her fault and that Calpe hadnt  assessed  liability fairly.
Its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident, as this is a matter for the courts.  
Instead we look at the evidence and arguments to determine whether  Calpe  have
considered all of the information, and acted fairly, reasonably, and in line with the terms and
conditions of the policy when making  their decision on liability.
Its clear from Miss Gs policy that she is liable for any claim made on her policy up to the
amount of the value of the excess, £3,000. This means that Miss G has to pay the first
£3,000 of any claim. Thats what  she agreed  to pay when she took out the policy with Calpe
and entered into the contract. This, as her policy says on page 8, applies even if the
accident is not your fault.  It is normal in motor  insurance policies for the excess to be
payable on any claim, regardless  of who is at fault.  
Calpe settled the other drivers claim for about £2,700,  which is less than Miss Gs excess.
Ref: DRN20975032They paid out on the claim and so theyve done what  they said theyd  do under the
insurance contract with Miss G. So its fair for them to ask her to reimburse that amount,
because thats  what she said shed do under the contract in return.
I looked at her policy and it says on page  3 that Calpe  can take over and conduct the
defence or settlement of any claim. Again this is a common clause in insurance  polices and 
it allows Calpe to decide liability as they see fit, whether Miss G agrees with it or not.
Calpe asked an investigating agent  to interview  Miss G about what  happened in the accident
and also to check the accident  location  and the traffic light sequencing there. The agent
thought that Miss G was more likely to have been  liable for the accident.  So Calpe decided
that they couldnt successfully defend  the other drivers claim in court and they agreed  to
settle it. Its not in Calpes  interest to settle  a claim if they believe there  is a reasonable
chance of defending it. So I thought that they fairly investigated the accident and in the
circumstances it wasnt unreasonable for them to decide as they did about liability. However
Calpe still have to show that theyve assessed  the claim cost fairly.
claim cost
Miss G thought that Calpe  hadnt  managed the cost of the other drivers claim properly. She
felt that it would have been cheaper  for Calpe to write off the other drivers car rather  than
pay to repair  it and cover the hire car costs  while  it was being repaired.
The adjudicator checked that cars  market  value and found  that it was more than the cost of
the repairs. But in any event, as I said above,  its up to Calpe  to decide how to settle the
claim as they think fit and theyre not required to consult Miss G about it. But they did give
her a breakdown of the claim costs  in writing. And they said that they received an
engineering report  which showed that the car wasnt roadworthy after the accident, and their
engineer reviewed the repair  costs and thought they were  reasonable. The other driver was
entitled to a hire car while their car was being repaired, and Calpe reviewed the hire bill and
found it to be reasonable too. The claim also included the costs of the investigating agent
report but Miss Gs policy permitted that. And I didnt think it was unreasonable for Calpe to
get that report, given that there were no independent witnesses, and so it was one persons
word against  another.
cancellation
Miss G was unhappy that theyd threatened her with cancelling her policy if she didnt pay
the excess amount  of about £2,700 in two weeks, and then did cancel her policy without
waiting for this Services decision on the outcome of the dispute.
She said that if Calpe  were successful in the dispute  shed need  a reasonable period of time
to pay it off as she was in financial difficulties.
The adjudicator thought  that Calpe didnt give her fair warning of the cancellation so they
should recalculate the cancellation amount and refund part of her premium.  But I thought 
that Calpe  have shown us that they did sufficiently  warn Miss G that cancellation  would 
happen. Her policy at page 30 does allow Calpe to cancel without refund of premium if they 
pay a claim,  but also if any excess is unpaid. Again this isnt uncommon in policies after a 
fault claim.  And we dont think its unfair. This is because the consumer has already used the
policy, so they have got what they paid for.
Ref: DRN20975033If the claim amount were less than the premium I might have thought  that Calpe should 
refund some  of the premium on a pro-rata  basis, less the claim amount. But in this case the 
claim amount was more  than the premium Miss G paid. So if Miss G doesnt pay the excess, 
Calpe have made a loss.
So I didnt think it unfair for Calpe  to have cancelled the policy.  I saw that Miss G was
shocked when  they expected her to pay the amount within 14 days.  But they did offer her
more time to pay via an instalment repayment  plan. She had first offered a monthly amount,
which would have taken  her years to repay,  and Calpe then suggested  a higher monthly
repayment. But Miss G and Calpe didnt reach agreement before the proposed cancellation
date. Calpe had wanted Miss G to repay  the amount before the policy term ended, which
was about six months  later, and I couldnt say thats unreasonable.  So I couldnt say that 
Calpe were wrong to cancel the policy when they did.
customer service
I listened to the recordings  of calls in which Calpe  discussed with Miss G liability  and what
information they needed from her. I felt that Calpes staff were rude and didnt  explain  to their
requirements to her reasonably or without using jargon. I thought  that they caused Miss G 
more confusion, when they should have tried to help her understand. I thought  that Calpes 
service in those calls fell below the standard  we would expect, and didnt help them to 
resolve the situation with her. So I agreed  they gave her poor customer  service and that this 
warranted £100 compensation. I see that Calpe have  agreed to this.
But although  Calpe could  have given Miss G better  service in that respect, I didnt  think  that
altered the outcome. Overall  I thought  that, with the exception of the above service  issue,  
Calpe had acted  reasonably when  they decided liability and cancelled the policy  for non-
payment of the agreed excess. And so I didnt require them to do anything  else.
In response to my provisional decision,  Miss G said that she had assumed when she took 
out her policy  that it would allow  for the payment of the excess in instalments that took into 
consideration her financial situation.  She said that her situation had changed now as she 
had lost her employment  and was in financial hardship. Ive not seen any evidence  that 
Calpe promised at outset that the excess could be payable in instalments. However, as 
mentioned above,  when  the excess became payable  Calpe did offer an instalment payment 
plan, as mentioned  above, but she and Calpe were unable to come  to an agreement  about 
that at the time. Its a matter for their commercial judgement as to whether they are willing to 
accept instalment payments again  now if her circumstances have changed, and Miss G may 
wish to contact Calpe  about that direct. 
But as regards Miss Gs complaint, Im still of the opinion that, with the exception of the 
above service issue  they didnt  act unreasonably and so I dont see any reason to change 
my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above  and in my provisional decision, its my final decision  
that I partly uphold this complaint and I require  Calpe  Insurance Company Limited to pay 
Miss G compensation of £100 for her distress  and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN20975034Calpe must  pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell them  Miss G 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Calpe considers that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Miss G how much they have taken off, and give Miss G a 
tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2097503