K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains that errors by Santander  UK Plc meant a cheque he paid in didnt clear in 
time for a holiday abroad. 
Mr C further complains that a few months  later Santander cancelled  his bank card whilst he 
was abroad and then refused to carry out a transfer.  
Background
Mr C says he tried to pay in a cheque at Santander on 20 and 21 December 2018  but there 
were systems problems which meant he wasnt successful.  Mr C says a member of staff 
took his cheque and paid it in on 24 December 2018 but that didnt leave enough time for the 
funds to clear before  his trip. 
On 27 December 2018 Mr C called from abroad. It was established that the cheque hadnt 
cleared at this stage  in the day which meant Mr C didnt have access  to funds needed.  
Santander advised that the cheque should clear at some point that day. Santander  
apologised that the clearing times hadnt  been explained properly and paid Mr C £50. 
On 7 March 2019 Mr C was abroad  and he was contacted by Santander as a suspicious 
transaction had been blocked by its fraud  prevention system. Mr C confirmed he didnt 
recognise the transaction and agreed  that his card would be blocked  and a replacement sent 
to his home address in the UK. 
On 25 March 2019 Mr C called Santander again as he wanted to transfer  some  funds 
abroad to pay for some building work. But the transfer was declined as Santander had 
previously carried out a foreign transfer  for Mr C over the phone, outside of its standard  
procedures. Santander  said Mr C couldnt  complete the transfer without online banking  
credentials that he didnt have.  Santander responded to Mr Cs complaint on 1 April 2019 but 
didnt agree an error had been made. 
Mr C referred  his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought  Santander had dealt with Mr Cs complaint  fairly  so didnt ask it to take 
any further action.  As Mr C didnt agree his complaint  has been passed to me to make  a 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr C is upset and frustrated. On three different occasions his account 
access has been limited.  But there  are three  separate  situations  that affected  his account so 
Ive looked at each in turn. 
When he first contacted us, Mr C told us he tried to pay a cheque  in to his account on 20 and 
21 December 2018. But because of systems problems at Santander he wasnt able to pay 
the cheque in. As a result, he left the cheque with a member of staff and it appears  it was 
deposited on 24 December 2018, the next working day after 21 December 2018. But 
Santander says it has no record  of any systems problems  affecting its branch on those 
Ref: DRN20916232dates. Its also told us there are five ATMS which can be used to pay cheques in, in addition  
to the counter service. 
I think Mr C was aware on 21 December 2018  that his cheque hadnt been paid in. Hes told 
us he left the cheque with a staff member to be paid in at a later point so I think  he was 
aware that the cheque would most likely  be delayed and paid in on the next working day 
which was 24 December  2018. Cheques of this type clear  after one business  day which 
means it had to clear  on 27 December  2018.  And it did clear on that date. I appreciate Mr C 
may not have been told that it could  clear at any point on 27 December 2018 but Santander 
paid him £50 for the lack of clarity  and I think thats fair. Im satisfied from what Ive seen that 
Mr C was aware his cheque wouldnt clear until 27 December 2018. So I havent found any 
evidence of a mistake by Santander in the way the cheque was processed. 
The second  issue  occurred on 7 March 2019 when  a fraudulent transaction led to account 
checks. Mr C confirmed  the transaction wasnt genuine and was told Santander  intended to 
block his card. Mr C agreed  that the safest  option was for Santander to block his card and 
send a replacement  to his UK address. I appreciate  Mr C was abroad at this time but 
Santander can only post important documents and information to the registered address. 
The card block was genuine and Santander acted to protect Mr Cs account. I havent found  
anything to show Santander made  a mistake or treated Mr C unfairly. 
During his call with Santander  on 7 March  2019 Mr C was given Visas details to arrange  an 
emergency transfer. But there was a delay as a fax sent from Visa wasnt  received by 
Santander on 11 March  2019. I appreciate Mr C was caught between  two businesses, both 
of which  had told him it was waiting for the other.  But Ive looked  at Santanders records and 
notes and havent found anything to show it caused the delay.  
Mr C tried to make  an international transfer on 25 March 2019.  But Santander said it wont 
normally approve transfers of that nature over the phone and Mr C needed  his online 
banking details to proceed. Santander had previously processed a transfer over the phone 
as an exception but said it wouldnt do that again. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C but Santander has explained it wasnt  able to process his 
transfer as requested because it wasnt made  in line with its normal approach. Santander  
had already approved one transfer outside  of its standard process but wasnt  willing to do so 
again and thats a decision  its entitled  to make. I think Santanders decision was reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
I can see how strongly Mr C feels in this matter and I appreciate that several  different issues  
have affected  his Santander  account.  But theres no indication that the issues  hes raised are 
linked and Im satisfied Santanders  acted  to protect Mr Cs account when its had suspicions 
of fraud, an approach  its terms allow it to take. 
Santanders decision to decline the second transfer request on 25 March 2019  was fair as 
Mr C didnt have the credentials required for approval. Santander paid Mr C £50 as it could 
have been clearer  in explaining how long it takes for cheques  to be processed  and I think 
thats fair. As I think Santander  has dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly, Im not telling  it to do 
anything else. 
Ref: DRN20916233My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2091623