K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance policy (PPI) to go alongside  her mortgage.
background
Santander is unable  to tell us when  Mrs C took out the mortgage. But she took out the PPI in 
1999 over the telephone.
The policy would have covered Mrs C for accident, sickness and unemployment. It would 
have cost £6.57 and provide a monthly  benefit of £110 for up to 12 months per successful 
claim.
At first our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. But after receiving further 
information he said that Mrs C suffered with a pre-existing medical  condition  at the time she 
took out the PPI. And he said the policy would not have covered her if she made a claim if it 
resulted from her existing  medical condition. He said if she had known this it would have 
made a difference to her decision  to take out the policy  as it would not meet her needs.
Santander disagreed with this view. It said any pre-existing medical  condition  would have  
been discussed at the point of sale and the policy summary Mrs C would have received at 
the point of sale would have provided  information. It also said it wanted evidence of the pre-
existing medical condition before or at the time of the policy  sale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  Ill explain why below.
Mrs C says she wasnt given any advice but Santander has said it recommended the policy 
to Mrs C over the telephone. This put more responsibility on Santander for how it sold the 
PPI. As a recommended sale, Santander needed  to take reasonable steps  to make sure it 
was right for Mrs Cs circumstances. It also had to give her enough clear information so that 
she could decide  for herself whether or not she wanted to buy it.
Mrs C has told us that she suffered with a pre-existing medical condition and I also can see 
that in the response from the business to this service Santander was also aware of that. 
Mrs C has told us that she suffered with her medical condition since  1995 and had to take 
five to six months off work then, followed by regular  visits to the doctor and treatment and at 
the point of sale she was still receiving treatment.
The policy document states:  we will not pay the monthly benefit if your disability arises  from 
any of the following:  any condition you had at the start date or which you had received 
treatment or advice for during  the 12 months before the start date. 
So Mrs C would not have  been covered for her existing medical condition  if shed  needed to 
make a claim for it.
Ref: DRN29260732This was an important term of the insurance  - as an advised sale Santander had to check it 
was a good fit for Mrs Cs needs and it also needed  to give enough information to make it 
clear that she wouldnt  be able to make  a claim for her pre-existing medical  condition.  So Ive 
thought about whether it did so.   
Santander can no longer provide us with a call script. This is not surprising or unusual  given 
the time that has passed since the sale. Businesses  arent required to keep  records  
indefinitely. So I cant know exactly what was said on the phone. But Santander has said it 
would be for the representative to go through Mrs Cs personal circumstances and she 
would have been provided  with all the information she needed to make  an informed decision 
including being  told about the significant  exclusions or limitations.  Following this discussion 
over the telephone an application would have to be completed and a welcome  pack sent to 
her which included a schedule of cover and policy booklet which detailed the policys  
features, benefits exclusions  and limitations. Santander therefore says Mrs C received all the 
policy details to digest  in her own time after the point of sale if she felt she did not need it, 
the policy could  have been  cancelled.
But I dont think its likely  that Mrs C was told over the telephone  that she wouldnt be able to 
claim for her particular medical condition, I think at that time if she had been told she 
wouldnt have wanted to take out the policy. I dont  think it was a good  fit for her particular 
needs and I dont think it was suitable for her as she wouldnt have been  able to make a 
claim for her medical condition. I think on balance Mrs Cs medical  condition  was the most 
likely thing she might  have needed  time off work  and to make a claim for.
And the paperwork to complete and the policy documents  would  have been  sent to her after 
the call. So shed already  agreed to buy it then. But in any event the policy  terms are set out 
over many pages. The section telling Mrs C she would not be covered was at page  11 at the 
bottom of the page. So I dont think it would have been clear to her either from the 
paperwork which was sent to her after the sale.
I think if it had been  made  clear  I dont think she would have proceeded to buy the PPI.
After so much time I dont think it would be reasonable to ask for evidence of her medical 
condition. Ive thought about  everything Santander  has said about Mrs C not being  
consistent about her condition  but I dont agree. Although Mrs Cs representatives didnt 
specifically mention Mrs Cs medical  condition it did refer to medical conditions generally. 
And I can see that Santander knew that Mrs C had a medical condition which it refers to in 
its response form to this service. From  what Mrs C has told us, Im satisfied that Mrs C had a 
medical condition  which she was receiving treatment for. And although I note Mrs C had 
made a claim this was likely for another reason, not because of her pre-existing  medical  
condition. So in hindsight  its easy to say the policy  would still have been useful but at the 
time of the sale I think Mrs C wouldnt have wanted the policy  for the reasons Ive set out. 
All in all, I think Mrs C lost out as a result  of what Santander did wrong. I dont think the 
policy was suitable  or she had enough  information for her to be able to make  an informed 
decision and I uphold  this complaint.
putting things right 
Santander should put Mrs C in the position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mrs C the amount she paid each month for the PPI:
Ref: DRN29260733Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.  
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Mrs C to take off tax from this interest. Santander  must 
give Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Ive upheld the complaint and I require Santander UK Plc to comply with the above  putting 
things right section.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2926073