K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that she was mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside  a 
store card.
A retailer sold the store card and PPI, but AXA France IARD (AXA), the insurer, has 
accepted responsibility for the way the policy was sold.
background
In December 1997, Mrs R applied for a store card. At the same time,  she was sold PPI.
Mrs R thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint  but didnt  think it should be upheld. In particular, 
our adjudicator didnt  think  Mrs R had ever been  charged anything for PPI  so she hadnt 
lost out.
Mrs R didnt agree and feels she did pay for PPI and it must have been included  in her 
monthly payments.
As Mrs R was still dissatisfied, the complaint  has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has provided a copy of the original  credit agreement Mrs R signed.  I can see that PPI 
has been marked with what looks like a pre-populated  X. So it looks like PPI was intended  
to be added.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about PPI should  be upheld, Id 
expect any compensation to put the consumer in the financial position  theyd  be in if they 
hadnt bought the policy.
The PPI was attached to a store card. So any premiums would be charged to the account, 
and Mrs R would repay these extra charges, with interest, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the card. 
But in Mrs Rs case, despite the credit  agreement having indicated  that PPI was to be taken 
it doesnt look as though  AXA ever charged any premiums to her store card. 
AXA has provided a copy of the lifetime  data it holds for the store card.  I can see that the 
account details  match Mrs Rs, so Im satisfied it is for the correct  account. 
The lifetime  data shows the total amount spent  on purchases, interest  and importantly, the 
total amount charged for insurance over the lifetime of the store  card.
Ref: DRN28675412The records  show that no PPI premiums were ever charged to the account. Mrs R hasnt 
been able to show she paid anything towards  this policy  either. 
Mrs R says that the PPI would have been included in any monthly payment she made. But 
the PPI and what would have been  charged for that month (based on the outstanding 
balance) would have been  set out separately  on Mrs Rs monthly  statements.  From  looking 
at the statements provided I cant see any charge for PPI. So Im satisfied Mrs R didnt ever 
pay for PPI. 
This means  that even if something  had gone wrong  when the retailer  sold Mrs R the policy,  
Mrs R hasnt lost out financially because of this.
As Mrs R never paid anything towards  the PPI, she hasnt lost out financially because  of the 
sale of the policy.  It follows that I dont  uphold her complaint and I dont make an award.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2867541