K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. The complaint is brought  on her behalf  by a claims  management company.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1997.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Ls credit card account when she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs L disagreed  
with the adjudicators opinion. Her representative said,  on her behalf  and in summary, that:
Mrs L wouldve received  significant sick pay from her employer so had no need for the 
policy.
Mrs L wouldve declined the policy if the cost and benefits,  and its optionality,  had been 
made clear.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ls complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint because:
The credit card application form included a separate  section headed Optional Features 
which included payment protection. The box has been ticked to indicate that Mrs L wanted 
the PPI. I do note from the application form that Mrs L declined to take out other insurance, 
(the card protection  plan) at the same time. This suggests to me that she understood she 
was free to make her own choice. So, overall,  I think Lloyds made Mrs L aware  that the PPI 
was optional and that she chose to take it - although  I can understand why she can no 
longer remember this, given it took place so long ago.
Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt  have  to check  if it was suitable for her.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But Mrs L chose to take out the policy and so appears to have  wanted  this type 
of cover.  She wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  and the policy  was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs L would have made  
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance  I think  she would still 
have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Ls comments,  including what  shes  said about  her sick pay. 
But this doesnt  change my conclusion. The policy wouldve covered Mrs L for up to 12 
months if she couldnt work due to sickness or an accident and wouldve paid out in addition  
to any sick pay she wouldve received. So it couldve been a useful benefit. 
Ref: DRN29303492my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2930349