K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car he had been  financing through an agreement with STARTLINE 
MOTOR FINANCE  LIMITED (Startline) has been of unsatisfactory quality and that the 
business have  failed to provide, or fund, an alternative vehicle whilst hes been waiting to 
have his agreement  unwound.
background
Mr S took receipt of a used car in August 2018.  He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Startline. 
Mr S had problems with the car and was unable to use it from 8 September  2018.  Startline 
agreed to take the car back and terminate his finance agreement  with them. But there were 
delays and the termination wasnt completed  until late December  2018.
In the meantime, as Mr S had been  told not to drive the car and he was not provided with a 
courtesy vehicle, he told Startline he would be arranging a hire car. He wanted these hire 
costs refunded but Startline didnt agree to do so.
Our adjudicator thought that they should. He thought they were reasonable, consequential, 
costs that Mr S would  not have had to pay had he not had problems with the car he was 
hiring. He reviewed each  of the hire car invoices. He noted that Mr S had hired a car of 
comparable, if not inferior standard, and he thought that was reasonable of him. He noted 
that there  were some fuel costs and insurance costs included  in the hire arrangements that 
he would  not expect Startline to refund; but he thought they should refund the remaining 
costs. He calculated  these to be £540.95  for the period between 8 September and 18 
December 2018,  inclusive.
Startline didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. They  said theyd already waived a 
charge that they could have made in respect of the car not being returned  in the correct 
cosmetic condition. They thought this should  be taken into account  and they therefore  asked  
for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Startline so please  let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN29325922Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.
The agreement wasnt terminated until the end of December 2018 and in the meantime Mr S 
remained responsible  for payments and Startline  remained responsible  for the provision of a 
car. Thats not something they provided  as there was a delay unwinding the agreement and 
during this period Mr Ss car was clearly unusable. I dont think theres evidence  the delay 
had anything to do with Mr S. It seems  it was a dispute about who was the registered 
keeper.
In those circumstances I think Startline should have  provided a vehicle and as they didnt I 
think they should refund Mr Ss hire charges  where  they are reasonable. Ive read the 
adjudicators analysis of the invoices that Mr S provided. I would agree that the costs of 
roadside assistance; glass and tyre cover, and fuel, werent something that Startline were 
accountable for. But the other  charges should  be refunded as they were a direct 
consequence of the failure of the goods  to meet the standard  implied  under the hire 
purchase agreement  Mr S had formed with them.  Those  costs  equate  to £540.95.
Im not persuaded that Startlines decision not to charge  Mr S any refurbishment costs, when 
he returned the vehicle, is something  that I should  take into account. That was a distinct 
decision that I dont  think had anything to do with the need  to fund a hire vehicle.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell STARTLINE  MOTOR 
FINANCE LIMITED to refund Mr S £540.95  in respect of his car hire costs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2932592