K822xcomplaint
Mr M is unhappy  Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited did not accept his claim on 
his critical illness insurance policy. 
background 
In 2006 Mr M had some episodes of sensory disturbance  and was referred  to a Consultant 
Neurologist where he was diagnosed with Central Nervous System (CNS) Inflammatory 
Disease with a clinically isolated syndrome (CIS).  
In October  2007 Mr M joined his employers critical illness group policy  with L&G.  Sadly he 
was diagnosed with Multiple  Sclerosis in September 2015. 
Mr M made a claim under this policy in February  2016. But L&G didnt accept it. It said Mr M 
had suffered from a pre-existing  condition before joining his employers critical illness 
scheme. But it did accept  it had caused a delay when reviewing Mr Ms claim, so it offered 
him £500 for the trouble and upset  caused.  
Our Investigator  reviewed the complaint  but decided not to uphold it. In his opinion, the 
medical evidence  showed Mr M was suffering  symptoms of MS before he took out this 
policy. 
Mr M disagreed. He said he hadnt  been diagnosed with MS before he took out this policy.  
And that for the exclusion  L&G was relying on to be fairly applied it had to produce a 
diagnosis that he was suffering from MS in line with the MS definition  in the terms and 
conditions before October 2007.  
So this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But Id like to take some  time to explain how 
Ive reached my decision.  
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider  surrounding 
circumstances. 
Each complaint is decided  on its own facts and merits. So, I need to decide whether, on 
balance, the evidence provided shows that the CIS Mr M presented with in 2006 wasnt an 
early sign of MS. And that L&G has acted reasonably in concluding  that Mr M was suffering 
from symptoms  of MS before he began  his cover with L&G.  
The following  condition has to be met in order for L&G to decline Mr Ms claim;
"We will not pay benefit for any Insured condition which the Insured person
Ref: DRN26642142has suffered, or undergone before the date they joined  the Scheme, 
is already suffering  from when they join the scheme, for which  a duration period is 
included within its definition (e.g. six months  for multiple sclerosis)  or
" As long as a later diagnosis confirms this, we'll consider an insured person to have
suffered an insured  condition, 
undergone  an insured  condition, or 
been in a duration period included in an insured condition definition,
before they joined the scheme,  whether or not the insured condition  had been  formally 
diagnosed or not.
The reason  for the above exclusion is that new entrants to an employer critical illness  
scheme are not underwritten when they join. An insurer  is entitled  to protect itself from 
claims where a new member is already suffering from an existing  illness. And to apply 
exclusions such as this is standard practice  for these  types  of policies. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mr M has provided.  He says L&G hasnt shown  he was 
suffering from the specifically defined MS condition prior to 2007. But Ive also considered  
the medical notes  from his consultant  and GP as well as the evidence from L&Gs medical 
advisors. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr M wasnt diagnosed  with MS in 2006. However, the claim will be 
excluded if it can be shown Mr M was suffering from MS at the time he joined the scheme,  
whether diagnosed or not. Here, the consultant  says Mr M wasnt  diagnosed with MS and 
had clear neurological examinations, but he hasnt  said that he wasnt suffering from, or that 
Mr Ms CIS wasnt  an early symptom of MS.  
L&Gs consultants  have said its highly probable the adverse symptoms Mr M was suffering 
from in 2006 and the subsequent tests/investigations indicated the presence of MS at that 
time. They added that CIS is an extremely common presenting feature of MS. So overall, on 
balance, I think the available evidence shows Mr Ms CIS was an early symptom of his MS. 
For this reason, I think it was fair for L&G to decline the claim as the evidence  provided 
shows its more likely  than not Mr M was suffering from MS when  he joined the scheme.
Mr M went back to his consultant with L&Gs  comments,  but he hasnt specifically 
commented on or challenged L&Gs opinion that Mr Ms CIS wasnt  an early  sign of MS in 
this instance.  Its open  to Mr M provide  evidence  from his treating consultant  that the CIS in 
2006 wasnt a symptom of MS. But based  on the evidence presented so far, Im satisfied it 
was fair for L&G to apply the exclusion.
I note L&G has previously  offered Mr M £500  for the trouble  and upset it caused  due to the 
delay in responding to his appeal of its decision to reject  his claim. L&G has recognised in 
this instance it didnt provide the service  it expects. Having considered the length of the 
delay and the offer I think this is a fair amount. 
So, Im not going  to ask L&G to take any further action here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN26642143Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2664214