K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC treated  her unfairly when it started  court 
proceedings in relation to her mortgage.  This complaint has been brought  on Mrs Fs behalf 
by a family  member, who Ill refer to as Mr F. 
background
Mrs F took out a mortgage in 2007 which was transferred to Barclays under a court 
approved scheme  in 2010. A substantial part of the mortgage is on interest only terms; with 
the remainder on a capital repayment  basis. The mortgage accounts fell into arrears and in 
2016 Barclays started legal proceedings. Court  hearings have been adjourned several times 
since then. Barclays says its asked  the court to adjourn hearings to give Mrs F time to agree 
an arrangement to pay. 
Mrs F says shes complied with a court order and made her contractual monthly payment 
and the arrears repayment. However, Barclays started a new legal action saying her arrears 
had increased. The hearing due at the end of October 2018 was adjourned while we looked  
into Mrs Fs complaint.
Mrs F says Barclays hasnt provided  evidence that her arrears have increased. She says it 
didnt tell her there was a problem before starting  court proceedings, so it didnt give her a 
chance to put things  right. She asks that Barclays provides evidence  of the arrears in an 
understandable format.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
wed looked into parts of Mrs Fs complaint  previously  and cant consider the same 
issues again. 
while Mrs F had made efforts to reduce the arrears, significant arrears remained 
outstanding. Mrs F hadnt agreed a repayment  plan with Barclays. Because  Mrs F wasnt 
in contact with Barclays, it doesnt  know whether her payments are sustainable or 
whether shell  be able to clear  the arrears by the end of the mortgage term. It wasnt 
unreasonable for Barclays to pursue other  options, such as repossession.
Barclays put legal action on hold while we looked into Mrs Fs previous complaint. It 
restarted the action once a final decision had been  issued (in May 2018). The 
investigator said he hadnt seen any evidence that a repayment  arrangement  had been 
agreed or that the court had made an order setting out the required repayments.
Mrs F didnt  agree and so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN28540372Mr F disputes dates used by the investigator and asked  that a timeline  is provided.  Ive set 
out key events since May 2018 (when  an ombudsman  issued  a final decision relating  to 
Mrs Fs previous complaint) at the end of this decision.
Barclays solicitors wrote  to Mrs F in August 2018  saying  it would  restore legal action if she 
didnt pay arrears within seven days. It wrote  to her in September  2018 confirming legal 
action had been restored.
Barclays says it resumed  legal action because of the amount of the arrears,  which  are 
currently about £59,000. Its also concerned that Mrs F hadnt provided information  about her 
financial circumstances. Without  this, it cant assess what payments are affordable and 
agree a repayment arrangement.  
Barclays says because  of the substantial amount of the arrears and it having no evidence of 
affordability, any repayment plan would have to be under a court order. 
So I have  to consider whether this is fair.
I wont repeat the issues this service has dealt with previously.  But I would note that Mrs Fs 
accounts have  been in arrears for some  time.  Barclays  has sent annual statements and 
arrears statements, so I think  Mrs F is aware  of this.
Mrs F asked  that statements are provided  in different formats so that she can better  
understand how the arrears built up and check that the amount  claimed  by Barclays is 
correct. The final decision issued in May 2018 addressed this and so I wont consider this 
again here. I note that Barclays has sent statements to Mrs F since then. And when it made 
an application to court it provided statements of the arrears as required for that process.
While Mrs F says shes been  making  payments in accordance  with a court order  the 
evidence doesnt  support  this. The available evidence  suggests all court  hearings  have been 
adjourned. I havent seen a court order setting out the payments to be made by Mrs F.
Barclays has to comply  with relevant regulations,  including that possession proceedings are 
a last resort and should only be taken  where all other reasonable attempts to resolve the 
situation have  failed. If Mrs F had responded to Barclays with a credible plan to clear the 
arrears, Id expect it to give her proposal fair consideration. But she hasnt done so.
I can see that Mr F contacted Barclays solicitors  in late August 2018. He pointed  out that 
Mrs F had been making payments and disputes  that any recent  payments  were missed. But 
theres no evidence  that Mr F or Mrs F contacted Barclays  to provide the income  and 
expenditure information it would need  to agree a repayment arrangement. 
I havent seen  evidence that Mrs F has agreed  a repayment arrangement with Barclays. I 
havent seen evidence that she responded to its requests for information  about her income 
and expenditure.  I havent seen evidence that she contacted Barclays  with a credible  
proposal to repay the arrears  such  as the sale of the house or re-financing  the debt.
Mrs F says Barclays re-started legal action without  giving  her a chance  to address the 
matter. But Barclays solicitors had written to Mrs F saying the legal action would be restored 
if the arrears werent paid within  seven days. Mrs F could have contacted Barclays  at that 
point with a credible repayment proposal, which Id expect Barclays to have considered  
fairly. 
Ref: DRN28540373The letter sent by Barclays  solicitor in September 2018 says legal  action was restored as 
arrears increased. I understand why Mrs F disputes  this. But I dont think it changes the 
outcome. Barclays had already written to Mrs F saying  it would  restore legal action if the 
arrears werent paid. I dont think the legal action was restored due to the way her payments 
were allocated. I think it was restored for the reasons  Barclays has given:  the amount of the 
arrears and the lack of evidence about  the affordability of the payments  Mrs F made.
While Mrs F has started to make additional  payments  to reduce the arrears, the amount 
owed remains substantial. Mrs F hasnt agreed  an arrangement with Barclays  for this to be 
repaid or made meaningful attempts to discuss this with Barclays.
In the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair  or unreasonable for Barclays  to restore  the 
possession proceedings. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN28540374Timeline
Date
23 May 2018 An ombudsman issues a final decision on Mrs Fs previous  complaint
23 June 2018 Last date for Mrs F to accept or reject the ombudsmans final decision
22 August 2018 Barclays tries to call Mrs F, without success
Barclays solicitors write to Mrs F asking her to pay the arrears of 
about £64,000 within seven days or it will restore legal action.
24 August 2018 Mr F speaks  to Barclays solicitors
20 September 2018 Barclays solicitors write to Mrs F saying theyve written to the court 
asking that proceedings are restored as further arrears have accrued 
on her mortgage account
2 October 2018 Barclays sends a quarterly arrears letter to Mrs F
8 October 2018 Barclays solicitors write to Mrs F saying proceedings  for possession 
have been issued and a court hearing is scheduled for 30 October  
2018.
17 October 2018 Mrs F raises a complaint  with the Financial  Ombudsman Service
29 October 2018 Barclays confirms its put recovery action on hold
30 October 2018 Legal proceedings adjourned until 30 October 2019
Ref: DRN2854037