K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains about the advice Santander UK plc gave her to take out life and critical 
illness policies alongside her mortgage. She doesnt feel she needed them  as she was 
single and didnt  have any dependants, but she was told having such cover was compulsory.
background
In 2002, Mrs D took out a decreasing term assurance policy  through Santander, then Abbey, 
to protect  her mortgage. And in 2005, when she applied for a further advance, she replaced 
this policy  with one that covered the total amount of her borrowing. At that time, she was 
also applying to transfer the mortgage into her sole name.
Mrs D believed that she had to have the policy for her mortgage. And when she was told this 
wasnt the case in 2014, she cancelled it.
In 2018, Mrs D complained about the way the policies had been sold to her. But Santander 
didnt uphold  her complaint  as it thought the recommendation  was appropriate for her.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but didnt think  Santander  had done  
anything wrong  in recommending the policies to Mrs D. He said their main aim was to 
provide critical illness cover, which he felt Mrs D might  benefit  from, with the life cover  being 
included at no additional cost. 
Mrs D didnt accept the adjudicators findings. She said the advisor was clear that the 
policies had to be taken out and if shed known they werent compulsory she wouldnt have 
agreed to them. She thinks  Santander should  be held to account for the misleading  
information they gave her and not rely on small print in the mortgage papers.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate what Mrs D has told us about the reason that she started her policies, and 
that she was led to believe that they were compulsory.
Having reviewed the available documentation,  it seems that the policy from 2002 was taken 
to protect  Mrs Ds mortgage which shed had since 1999. I can see that at that stage her 
mortgage was still in joint names  with her then husband, and that they had separated.  In 
these circumstances,  I dont think it was unreasonable for her to look to protect  her ability  to 
repay the mortgage on her home.
There is more information available from the time she took out her policy  from 2005,  as she 
was making changes to her mortgage.  She was transferring the mortgage  her sole name, 
and borrowing an additional  £10,000. I can see the records  show  that her existing policy  was 
taken into account,  but that this wouldnt have covered  the full amount of the mortgage 
borrowing. The advisor has noted that a top-up  to this was looked  at but that it was cheaper 
to take out a new one for the whole amount. The recommendation was to take out a 
decreasing critical illness policy to match the mortgage amount and term and this included 
free life cover. 
Ref: DRN27478472Ive looked at Mrs Ds mortgage offer and this has a section referring to the insurance  
requirements which says Youre not required to take out any insurance through  Abbey. It 
says to make sure that the property  was insured and remained insured for the mortgage 
term (with buildings insurance) but that Mrs D had chosen to take this insurance  out with 
another provider.  
I do appreciate that Mrs D feels that the policy wasnt appropriate for her for a number of 
reasons: her age; lack of dependents and the sickness cover that she had through her 
employer. However, the policy wouldve provided her with a lump  sum to repay her 
outstanding mortgage commitment should she have been diagnosed with a specified critical 
illness while  it was in place. Although  she may feel that she didnt have a need for the life 
cover, this was included  with the policy at no additional charge.
I know that Mrs D doesnt  have any record or recollection of receiving a cancellation notice 
from her policy  provider  when it was set up in 2005.  But I agree with the adjudicator that its 
more likely than not than this wouldve been  sent to her, possibly along  with her policy 
documentation or schedule. And I dont think this means that the policy  itself wasnt  
appropriate or that she wasnt  given the option  to cancel it if shed changed her mind. I can 
see that her application form was dated in July, but her policy  didnt start until November, so 
this indicates she wouldve  have an opportunity to consider whether the policy was right for 
her. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think this decreasing term assurance policy was mis-
sold to Mrs D.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2747847