K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mrs R says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Rs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Rs. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it out. I say this because Mrs Rs credit card application form shows that PPI was 
selected, and Mrs R signed the form confirming  that she agreed with the selections  on it.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs R, so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Mrs Rs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her. For example,  Mrs R was eligible  for the cover  
and although she had existing means  she still seems  to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing  about Mrs Rs employment  or occupation  which would have made  it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical conditions  
that could affect her ability  to claim.  There were  also no additional  restrictions  on cover  
for mental health or back problems.
Ref: DRN27224492Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mrs R as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar  to what she reasonably  thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable   so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think  Mrs R 
would have declined  the cover had Halifax done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs R would  have still taken out PPI. I think the policy  could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think  the policy 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mrs Rs representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mrs Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Rs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mrs Rs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October  2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2722449