K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains about the charges Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (HC) is requiring him to pay 
following the end of his car leasing agreement.  
background 
Mr D says shortly  after the start of the agreement he was involved in an accident that wasnt 
his fault and the car was repaired  by an insurance  approved body shop. He says when  he 
got the car back  the paint  finish  appeared fine and there were  no discernible flaws.  But he 
says when the car was collected at the end of the agreement the assessor identified flaws  in 
the repair work, such as ripples and dust in the paintwork.
Mr D also says the flaws  were barely  visible and definitely wouldnt have been  noticeable  to 
the untrained  eye. He says he signed  the collection agents report  to say he didnt agree with 
the findings. And he says even so he received a bill for over £700  relating to these defects. 
So, Mr D says he wants HC to acknowledge the charges are unfair and to confirm in writing 
that theyre being  waived.
Our investigator thought Mr Ds complaint  should be partly upheld and HC should remove 
two of the items it had charged him for costing £140  each, reducing the total amount he 
owed it to £512.09.  
Mr D disagreed with the investigators conclusions and he set out in detail why he thought  
each of the remaining items of allegedly poor repair  work hed been  charged for should be 
waived. 
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to partly uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
I see HCs now agreed to remove the charges for the two items of repair  work  referred to by 
the investigator totalling £280. So my decision concentrates  on the items that remain in 
dispute.
I see Mr Ds leasing  agreement required him to return  the car in a good  condition and I see 
the covering letter HC sent him at the start of the agreement highlighted this obligation and 
that the condition of the car would be assessed by reference to a set of guidelines widely  
recognised in the car leasing industry.  
I also see Mr D makes the general point that in every example image in the guidelines Ive 
referred to, magnetic  arrow markers  are used  that point directly  at the defect in question. 
And he says its therefore a fair assumption  that the images provided by the collection agent 
in this case would follow the same protocol. But I dont think theres  a protocol about this 
matter and I think its reasonable  to regard the arrows as pointing  to the approximate 
location of any identified defect.
Ref: DRN20053412The principle  underlying the guidelines  Ive referred  to is that car leasing businesses should  
be able to recover the cost of any defect  likely  to have  an adverse impact on the resale  value 
of the car. 
I see the defects Mr Ds been charged for relate to paintwork issues including  rippled  finish, 
paint runs and dirt in the paint.  
Ive looked carefully  at the various images of each defect Mr D takes  issue  with. Ive also 
looked at his detailed reasons why he thinks he shouldnt be charged  for these defects and 
Ive looked at the industry standard guidelines  against which  his car was inspected  at the 
end of his leasing  agreement. And Im satisfied  from what Ive seen  that HCs decision to 
charge Mr D for each  defect that remains in dispute  is in accordance with those guidelines 
and is reasonable.
I acknowledge Mr D is understandably unhappy that hes being charged  for these defects 
when the car was previously repaired by an insurance approved body shop and Ive 
sympathy for him. But that doesnt  alter the fact that HCs entitled to charge him for any 
defect thats likely to adversely  affect the resale  value of the car.
And, for theses reasons,  I cant fairly and reasonably require it to remove  the remaining 
charges Mr D disputes. So, I partly uphold  his complaint on this basis.
 
my final decision
I partly  uphold  Mr Ds complaint against  Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc. It must remove  two items of 
£140 each from the amount it charged him for defective paintwork at the end of his leasing 
agreement, reducing  the total amount he owes it for defects and missing  items to £512.09.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2005341