K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Ferratum UK Ltd didnt  carry out proper affordability checks.
background
Mr F had five loans from Ferratum between February 2018 and May 2018  as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Due Repayment Status
1 15 Feb 2018 £100 1m 28 Feb 2018 £110.40 On time
2 1 Mar 2018 £100 1m 28 Mar 2018 £121.60 On time
3 28 Mar 2018 £150 1m 27 Apr 2018 £186.00 On time
4 27 Apr 2018 £150 1m 25 May 2018 £183.60 On time
5 25 May 2018 £600 4m Sep 2018 £282.16 Outstanding
Mr F complains specifically about  the £600  loan he had from Ferratum on 25 May 2018.  It 
was due to be repaid  over four months. He says that after Ferratum lent him the money,  he 
lost his job and Ferratum failed to establish whether he could still afford  the repayments. He 
adds that as he has now told Ferratum about  his change of circumstances it should not be 
charging him additional interest fees.  Mr F says his credit record  was very poor and his 
pattern of borrowing itself should have indicated affordability issues.  He says Ferratum didnt 
verify his employment or check his payslips or bank statements.
Ferratum says Mr F repaid the first four loans,  but says it hasnt received any repayments to 
the loan taken on 25 May 2018. Ferratum says it checked Mr Fs credit  record and asked 
him for information  about his income and expenditure. It says its checks were proportionate 
to the amounts borrowed and that Mr F only updated his employment status to unemployed  
two days after he took out the fifth loan. However, as a gesture of goodwill, Ferratum  offered 
to refund the interest  Mr F had paid on all the closed loans and write off the outstanding  
interest on the remaining loan. This would mean Mr F had all the loans interest  free and only 
owed the remaining capital balance on the outstanding loan.
Mr F did not accept the offer and wants the outstanding balance  written off.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. Although she felt the 
business could  have done more  checks,  by, for example, verifying the information  Mr F had 
provided, Mr F hadnt been able to provide evidence of his circumstances at the time. So our 
adjudicator couldnt safely conclude the loans were unaffordable and didnt find Mr Fs 
borrowing pattern  in itself would  have  shown the repayments were unsustainable.
Mr F responded to say, in summary,  that his declared income was initially  correct but that 
the quick lending  tool precluded him from changing  it for subsequent applications. He adds 
that Ferratum continued  to add interest even  when told of his financial difficulties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ferratum was required to lend responsibly.  It should  have  made checks  to make sure Mr F 
could afford  to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr F was borrowing, and his lending  history. But 
there was no set list of checks Ferratum  had to do.
Ref: DRN20008512Loans 1 to 3
When Mr F applied for the first three  loans,  he told Ferratum his monthly income was £1,251 
and his expenditure was £500. Ferratum  also checked his credit  file for each application and 
Im satisfied it would  have have concluded the loans were affordable.
I acknowledge Mr F says his income information was only correct for the first loan 
application, but I cant see there was anything in the information provided  or the information 
Ferratum should  have been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what Mr F said. 
So I dont  think Ferratum  was wrong  to approve loans 1 to 3.
Loan 4
By the time Mr F was applying for his fourth loan in quick  succession,  I consider a 
proportionate check should have included asking  Mr F about other short-term loans. I cant 
see it did this, but Mr F hasnt been  able to provide any evidence about his financial 
circumstances at the time. As there was nothing in Ferratums  existing  checks  that indicated 
the repayments were  unaffordable, I cant say it was wrong to approve loan 4.
Loan 5
At this stage, I consider a proportionate check should have been a full financial review to 
include the verification of the information provided  by Mr F. As Im unable  to see what such  a 
review would have  shown, and there are no other indications  that loan 5 was unaffordable, I 
cannot uphold  the complaint about this loan.
I accept Mr F says he became unemployed after taking out the loan, but Ferratum made its 
lending decision based on the information  at the time of the loan approval.
So, in conclusion, I dont  find Ferratum was wrong to approve any of the loans. That said, 
even if Id upheld  one or more of the loans, my decision would include refunding only the 
interest charged on the loans. It is not fair or reasonable for Ferratum  to have to refund the 
capital amount it lent to Mr F as he had the benefit of that money at the time. I note that 
Ferratum has already made an offer to refund the interest it charged on all the loans and 
Mr F can now contact  it to see if the offer is still available to him. As such,  any additional 
interest that Mr F says he was charged  after he told Ferratum hed lost his job, would also be 
written off.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2000851