K821x#15the complaint
Mr F says TSB Bank Plcs  IT problems had an impact on him. 
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mr F says this meant  it took around 
seven weeks to receive his replacement debit  card which he first requested on 18 May 2018.  
This caused him a number of issues. He works  long hours and was unable  to get to a branch  
himself. So he had to transfer funds to his friends  so they could withdraw  cash for him.
He was unable  to pay for public transport on a few occasions  and had to walk home from 
work. He was unable  to pay for medication  and when he was in hospital for five days he 
couldnt order food.  
Mr F says that when he complained to TSB he spent around  15 hours on the phone  trying to 
get a replacement card.  TSB offered  Mr F £150 for the distress and inconvenience hed 
been caused. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. He thought TSB should  pay Mr F £300 for the 
impact the problems had on him. Mr F initially wanted to wait and see if TSB would respond 
further to his complaint. When it didnt, he got back to us and explained he didnt feel £300 
was enough for the impact the issue had on him. 
Two other adjudicators looked into Mr Fs complaint  and both agreed that the initial 
recommendation of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused was fair. 
And they also said TSB should pay £60 for the call costs Mr F incurred.
TSB accepted this, Mr F didnt. He still thought £300 wasnt a fair offer.  So the case has 
been passed to me to decide.  
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think £300 compensation and £60 for call costs is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. 
I understand that the distress and inconvenience that individuals are caused  can be 
subjective. And that what one individual might think of as reasonable compensation for the 
worry caused might be seen as not enough by someone  else who went  through  the exact 
same situation. But while I do appreciate  that Mr F wants increased  compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, I have  to consider what I think is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr F went  through a stressful time due to TSBs IT problems and that he 
was without his debit card for around  two months.  This has led to him having issues  with his 
day to day living at times, especially when he wasnt able to rely on his workaround of his 
friends withdrawing cash for him. Ive thought  about this when coming to my decision. And 
Ive considered the time Mr F spent  trying to fix this problem. And taking everything into 
Ref: DRN26727232account, I think the compensation the adjudicator  has already recommended  and TSB has 
agreed to  is a fair amount.
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
pay Mr F £300 for the impact the IT issues had;
and pay £60 for the call costs  Mr F incurred.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Fs complaint.
TSB Bank Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above   if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2672723