K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about Covea Insurance  Plcs  handling  of a claim they made 
under their buildings  insurance policy.
Background
In April 2018, a pipe in Mr and Mrs Bs kitchen burst and sewage leaked  into their kitchen. 
They cleaned the kitchen as best they could, and contacted Covea to log a claim under their 
home insurance policy.
Covea sent a cleaning company out shortly after the leak occurred. They cleaned the 
affected areas with an anti-microbial  solution, but indicated the lower kitchen units, 
kickstands, flooring and a number of freestanding items had been contaminated by the 
sewage and would need to be replaced.  Shortly after the cleaning  company visited  the 
property, a loss adjuster  also visited  Mr and Mrs Bs home. The loss adjuster recommended 
Mr and Mrs B obtain two quotes to replace the kitchen units, the built in appliances  and 
replacement flooring. They also identified that a number of freestanding items in the kitchen  
would need to be replaced.
Over the next few months,  there  was considerable back and forth between Covea, its agents 
and Mr and Mrs B. I wont set it all out here as both sides are familiar with the background. 
However, three months  after the sewage  leak, Mr and Mrs B noticed  their kitchen began to 
smell again. They became worried the kitchen hadnt been  properly  cleaned,  and the 
insurers cleaning company hadnt  been  back out to clean the kitchen again, despite initial 
indications they would. They instructed their own cleaning company to come  out and inspect 
their kitchen. This company identified evidence of contaminated  waste and debris  on the 
underside of the chest freezer, the oven and on the walls, lower kitchen units and floor.  
By this point  Covea had offered a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs B to resolve their 
complaint. But they didnt  think this was sufficient to settle  their claim or replace everything 
that had been contaminated. There were  also disagreements as to whether all items, 
including the oven, needed replacing. So they asked  us to look into what had happened.
Our investigator considered everything both sides said. She said she didnt think Covea 
could be satisfied its cleaning company  had cleaned the kitchen properly and removed  all 
evidence of contamination. She said where  it had offered to pay Mr and Mrs B a lower  
amount for items they had provided  quotes  for; it hadnt provided any evidence to support  
why the figures  it had offered were  in line with what it needed to offer under their policy. As 
an agreement wasnt reached, this matter  was passed to me. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same conclusions  as our 
investigator, and my decision focuses on what I consider to be the key issues  to this dispute.  
Was the kitchen sanitised  to a good standard in the first instance?
There appears to be some confusion around  what the cleaning company told Mr and Mrs B. 
They say they were told the lower kitchen units had been contaminated and therefore would 
Ref: DRN21282862all need to be replaced. Covea say they understood the lower  kitchen  units could be 
removed, sanitised  and then refitted. 
Where theres a dispute about whats been  said, Ill look at the evidence and information 
available and decide what I think is most  likely to have happened.  
Im mindful both agencies  appointed by the insurer (the cleaning  company and the loss 
adjuster) recorded  findings the lower kitchen units were contaminated by sewage. Covea 
believes it poor communication from the cleaning company  which has led to Mr and Mrs B 
believing the items  in their kitchen needed  further  treatment. And, Covea also thinks this 
company led Mr and Mrs B into believing they were due to a higher level of settlement than 
they were actually due under the terms of their policy. 
Covea has asked this service to listen to a conversation they had with an environmental 
health officer. Ive done so. In the call, the environmental health officer indicated, from what  
they had been told by Covea, the first stage of cleaning appeared to have been carried  out 
as theyd expect.  However, they also implied it would be very difficult to make  any formal  
assessment without visiting the property. 
In any event, Im minded  to give more weight to the assessments of the cleaning company  
and the loss adjuster. Both companies had been to the property and considered the lower  
kitchen units had been contaminated and required replacing as they could not be 
refurbished. 
I think the findings of the report from the cleaning company  instructed by Mr and Mrs B some 
three months after the leak are persuasive. They  demonstrate the kitchen wasnt properly 
cleaned by the insurers agents,  and there  were  still several areas of contamination. This 
report said: 
the contaminated waste and debris  from the incident are still present and remain a 
high risk to health  due to the hazardous nature of the waste  and the fact that food is 
being cooked and prepared in this area.  There is also evidence  that raw sewage has 
been present  on the walls and equipment has not been cleaned
It might be the case that had the kitchen was properly  cleaned by the insurers agents, the 
lower kitchen units might have been able to be removed, sanitised and refitted. But I 
consider the evidence provided indicates the kitchen wasnt  sufficiently cleaned during the 
initial visit by the cleaning company. And, on that basis, I think the insurer  should  have 
proceeded to settle the claim on the basis the lower  kitchen  units and appliances, including 
the oven, had been contaminated,  not properly cleaned by the insurers  agents,  and need 
replacing. 
So I dont  think the kitchen was cleaned properly by the insurers agents. Or at the very 
least, they were  going to need  to return to complete the sanitisation of the kitchen and this 
didnt happen  within a reasonable timeframe in the circumstances. I can see from the 
correspondence provided by both sides that the level of trust Mr and Mrs B had in the 
cleaning company and loss adjuster deteriorated  fairly quickly. Mr and Mrs B seemed to be 
on the receiving end of mixed and conflicted messages. And its the finding  the first clean 
completed by the insurers agents wasnt of a sufficient level to remove all contamination that 
is central to the recommendations Im going to make.
Putting things right
Ref: DRN21282863Mr and Mrs B accepted our investigators  recommendations.  Covea accepted some but not 
all, so Im going to focus on those issues that are still outstanding.
The lower  kitchen units were not satisfactorily cleaned by Coveas agent, and were found to 
be contaminated three months after the sewage  leak. Covea has not provided any evidence 
to support its view the amount it has offered is a fair amount to settle the claim,  despite being 
provided with several opportunities  by our investigator. As far as I can see, the quote 
provided by Mr and Mrs B is a like-for-like  kitchen, including installation. I havent  been 
provided with anything that suggests Mr and Mrs B could obtain the replacement  kitchen for 
the amount Covea  is offering, or that Covea can provide a like-for-like kitchen for the amount 
being offered.  
Our investigator recommended Covea repay the full amount quoted  in the like-for-like 
kitchen quote,  less a 50% contribution towards the upper, undamaged units. Covea  originally 
offered a 30% contribution  to the upper units but agreed to increase this to 50%.  I agree this 
is a fair resolution to this part of the claim.  In order to settle  this claim, Covea should pay the 
amount detailed in the like-for-like kitchen quote provided by Mr and Mrs B, less 50% of the 
value for the upper  units. However,  Im mindful the quote is a year old and, if the prices for 
this kitchen have  increased, then any payment made by Covea will need to reflect this. 
I recognise Coveas  view the oven itself wasnt listed on the beyond economic repair (BER) 
report. However, it was found to be contaminated with sewage  three  months after the leak -. 
the report from the second cleaning company  sets out considerable contamination had been 
present for some time. I find this report to be more persuasive.
Its clear Mr and Mrs B have no confidence or comfort in using an oven that had been 
contaminated with sewage for three months. I think they were  entitled to trust their insurer 
would arrange  for this to be properly cleaned and sanitised following the leak. It is apparent 
this didnt happen. In light of the circumstances, I think  the fairest resolution to this complaint 
would be for Covea to pay for a replacement oven,  as detailed in the like-for-like kitchen 
quote provided by Mr and Mrs B to Covea in July 2018.
The chest freezer was accepted to be beyond economic repair due to contamination. Covea 
has agreed to pay for the items listed on the BER report, and the chest freezer  is on this list. 
Covea had agreed to replace the fridge  and its contents on the grounds  they may have been  
contaminated. I think the same logic should  follow for the chest freezer. The freezer was on 
the BER report,  and Covea should also pay for contents of the freezer. It doesnt appear  that 
the goods inside the freezer were sealed. It seems reasonable that they could  also have 
been exposed  to contamination, even though the freezer opened from the top. There  was 
still a risk of contamination to the contents of the freezer. Mr and Mrs B should be 
compensated for this loss, in line with the terms of their contents policy. The figure Ive been 
provided with is £262.50.  Covea should  pay this. 
Covea has accepted the quote for the replacement floor tiles, grout and adhesive. But it 
hasnt accepted the quote provided by Mr and Mrs B for laying the replacement  flooring. The 
amount on this quote is £1,900. Covea  says its unwilling to pay this, saying its quote  
included the uplift, supply,  fix and re-grouting of the tiles. Theyve already agreed to pay for 
the tiles and grout in the above quote  for replacement flooring. So it offered £950 towards 
the cost of relaying  the flooring. However, in the absence of any evidence  showing Mr and 
Mrs B could arrange for the floor to be re-laid for £950. Covea should pay the full amount 
quoted of £1,900.
Ref: DRN21282864Mr and Mrs B have  experienced a substantial amount of trouble and upset during this matter 
and I dont underestimate the impact  this matter has had on them. However, I think  the 
trouble and upset  payment recommended by our investigator and accepted by Covea and 
Mr and Mrs B is a fair amount, and reflects their worry and upset  in trying to get this matter 
resolved. 
Covea has paid a disturbance allowance  of £140  to Mr and Mrs B. It says this should reflect 
the period of time when  the kitchen is refitted. Mr and Mrs B have confirmed they continued  
to use the kitchen, including appliances  after it had been cleaned  by the insurers  agents.  
And theyve  been  using  it since  their own company sanitised the kitchen. 
I think the disturbance  allowance  should  be paid between the time the leak occurred,  when 
the kitchen was initially cleaned, and for the duration of the time taken for the kitchen to be 
replaced and become  functional again. So if this period of time is longer  than the week 
Covea has already paid for, then it should  make an additional payment to Mr and Mrs B.
In order to settle Mr and Mrs Bs claim Covea  should  pay the following:
Item Amount
Contribution towards  all items detailed in the like-for-like  quote with a 
50% contribution to the upper cupboard units. But if any prices have 
increased since the quote was generated, this should be taken into 
accountTBC, as set out 
in update like-
for-like quote
All items detailed on the BER report £3,880
Skirting boards £43.75
Floor tiles, grout and adhesive £2,154.36
Cost of the second clean £765.49
Contribution towards  laying the floor tiles £1,900
Disturbance allowance £140
Contents of the chest freezer £262.50
Trouble and upset £1,000
For the reasons  I have  given, Covea needs  to make a payment for all items listed  above, 
less any payments that have already been made. It should also send a breakdown  to 
Mr and Mrs B which sets out which items have already been paid for and when these 
payments were made.  It should  also pay any VAT for the kitchen, upon being presented with 
a suitable invoice.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Covea Insurance  Plc should  make 
payments Ive set out in in this decision; less any payments it has already made. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 August 2019.
Emma Hawkins
Ref: DRN21282865ombudsman
Ref: DRN2128286