K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained about QIC Europe  Ltd. They werent  happy  that it turned down a 
claim under their home  insurance  policy.
background
I considered this complaint in full and issued my provisional decision a month ago. In 
summary I said;
Mr and Mrs Ps house was broken into in May 2018.  They reported the theft to the police and 
QIC, but it turned down  the claim. It said that Mrs P hadnt put the lock on the front door into 
full and effective use which was a condition of the policy.
As Mr and Mrs P werent happy about  this they complained  to QIC and then this service. Our 
investigator looked into things and asked  QIC to get a copy  of the crime report from the 
police. The police  report confirmed  that there was a break in at the property and said that the 
thieves gained entry by the back-patio door,  not the front door.
But our investigator thought that QIC hadnt  acted unreasonably by acting on the first notice 
of loss call (FNOL) from Mr P which suggested the front door was used to gain access. And 
he was satisfied that that the lock on the front door wasnt in full and effective use. So, he 
thought QIC hadnt acted  unreasonably in declining  the claim in line with the policy 
endorsement.
As Mr and Mrs P didnt agree the matter has been  passed to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im currently  minded to 
uphold the complaint. I must highlight that this is subject to change  depending on any 
representations that I receive.
It is clear that Mr and Mrs P were  subjected to a horrible and invasive burglary  at their house 
in broad daylight. Ive seen pictures  of the alleged  thieves taken from nearby close circuit 
television (CCTV)  and the police  attended the property  to assess the damage and look for 
evidence. This was obviously successful as I understand  the thieves were subsequently 
apprehended.
QIC appointed  a loss adjuster to investigate  the circumstances  surrounding the claim. But I 
dont think the investigation it undertook was thorough  or detailed enough. Ill explain why. 
It is clear from the FNOL call that it wasnt Mr P who noticed the burglary even though  he 
was reporting  it. It would appear  that it was too traumatic for Mrs P (who discovered  the 
burglary) to report the break-in, but the call taker did speak to her about  items that were 
stolen at one point. And it was clear from the call that Mr P wasnt sure about the exact  detail 
and circumstances  surrounding the burglary,  as it was his wife that walked in to the trashed 
house. It wouldve  made sense for the call taker to have spoken to Mrs P about what  she 
saw when she first went into the house  and the damage sustained, including  to the front and 
rear doors.
Ref: DRN27933072The only note from the attending investigator  just says that the cause of damage was 
consistent with a break-in and says that the door was not key locked. I wouldve expected  a 
lot more detail  here and at least a consideration that entry couldve been gained by another 
point. Mr P says that his wife did tell them that entry  was gained through the patio doors and 
Im surprised that the attending loss adjuster didnt survey the house  and provide a more 
detailed report about their findings.
Indeed, I wouldve expected QIC to have revisited its investigation when it became clear, 
through the police report, that entry couldve been  gained through the rear patio door. I think 
the police  report  is very persuasive and I presume, as the thieves were  arrested, that scenes 
of crime officers will have looked for point of entry evidence alongside the CCTV evidence 
and fingerprint  traces. I find the crime report,  from the day of the crime, persuasive and best 
evidence.
Furthermore, the pictures show  clear damage to the side panel of the front door and it is 
possible that the thieves tried to gain entry to the front of the house  and then the rear. But 
the front door must have been  locked  in some way or the thieves would have just walked in. 
Either way I dont think that QIC has done enough  to investigate this. Certainly  not to the 
extent that it has sufficient evidence to say that Mr and Mrs P hadnt ensured  their front 
doors were in full and effective use. There were  two doors to the front of the property (a 
porch door and a front door)  and I havent been provided with any evidence  to show that the 
second wasnt in full and effective use.
Mr P makes  the point  that it is possible that the front door was tried first before moving to the 
rear of the property  and that seems likely. This couldve easily  been explored  by the 
attending loss adjuster  but wasnt. And it is likely  that the thieves left the house with the 
stolen property through the front door as that would  be easier  and less suspicious than going 
through the back-patio door. Im sure the fact that the front door was left open by the thieves, 
and had some damage to it, led Mr P to believe that the thieves had come through  the front 
door when  he reported  things to QIC in the first instance. But the police report suggests  
otherwise.
As such,  I think that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case is for QIC to consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions  of 
the policy. It should pay our usual  rate of interest on any settlement as Mr and Mrs P have 
been without their property for a significant period  of time.
replies
QIC didnt respond to my provisional decision. While Mr and Mrs P said that they were  
pleased that their complaint was being upheld. And also mentioned  a few points that they 
wanted taking  into consideration.  One was that their bank card had been used fraudulently 
on the same  day as being stolen during the burglary. And the other  was that the suspicious 
behaviour of the burglars was noted and reported  by neighbours to the police.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not changing my 
position and Im upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN27933073As Mr and Mrs P have accepted my provisional decision and QIC hasnt responded I dont 
propose to rehearse  the arguments again here.  Ive given a detailed  account of the 
background and circumstances surrounding  the complaint  above.  And I remain of the view 
that the position outlined  is fair.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs P have raised the two further points  which again highlights  
the intrusive and horrible  nature of the crime they were  subjected  to. I took into consideration 
the reporting of the burglary to the police by a neighbour  (a former police officer) when I first 
considered this matter.  And I agree that it shows the aggressive and determined  nature of 
the burglars and the CCTV  evidence  clearly supports this. 
Im pleased that the thieves have been  apprehended,  who may well have given an account 
of how they gained entry to the premises to the police. And I hope that Mr and Mrs P can 
look to move on once QIC has finalised their claim.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd 
to consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions  of the policy. It should 
also pay 8% simple interest from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 November 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2793307