K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. He says he was made to believe  the PPI was something he needed  
to have to get his new credit card approved. He also thinks he didnt need  PPI.
background
I can see Mr H has already  been  paid some  money,  for the commission Barclays  got from 
the sale. But Barclays didnt agree  that it had mis-sold the PPI policy in the first place,  
whereas Mr H still thinks it did. 
Our adjudicator looked at the evidence and said Mr Hs complaint mis-sale complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. The complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Ive been sent Mr Hs original Barclaycard application form, dated October 1997. He didnt 
ask for PPI on this and none was added. Barclays confirms the PPI was actually added  to 
his account in May 2004 after a phone call. 
Its unfortunate that Barclays cant tell me much  about this call. It doesnt have a recording 
either, although given it was almost 15 years or so ago, thats not unusual.
So in the absence of this type of evidence, Ive looked at what I think is most likely  to have 
happened. In this case, we know Mr H would have had his credit card for around  6 years 
without any PPI. Ive then seen that his credit card statements after the 2004 sale started  to 
show up the PPI charges  being added.
Looking at these  statements   and also what Mr H says about why he thinks  the PPI was 
mis-sold  I think hes more likely to have agreed  to PPI during that call. This is because the 
PPI charges are described on the statements  as Payment Protection  Plan. And I think  if Mr 
H hadnt ever agreed to such  a policy during the call, he would have wanted to know why 
PPI charges were starting to appear.
So I think he probably agreed to the cover. He would also have known it was something he 
needed to have, because hed been  operating his credit card without PPI for quite a while.
Barclays concedes that it probably recommended the PPI to Mr H during the call. This 
means it had an additional duty to ensure this type of cover was suitable  for him. Overall, I 
think it was.
This is because Ive looked at Mr Hs situation.  I think he was eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  The PPI policy  
would have paid out 10% of his outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if hed 
Ref: DRN24408452needed to claim. This wouldve been in addition to any other  means he had at that time.  I 
also see that the cost of the cover was around 79p for every £100  outstanding on the card,  
which I think would have  been affordable for him.
So I think this policy was suitable for Mr H.
Barclays still needed to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading  so Mr H 
could make an informed  choice about whether or not to go ahead and buy the PPI. We 
simply dont have that information because details of the call no longer exist. However, I do 
think Mr H would have probably been  given some  written and verbal information about the 
policy.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H but I think the evidence shows he most likely chose the policy  
and would have  known it wasnt something  he needed to have. This means Im not 
upholding his mis-sale complaint.
Barclays has already  paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because when the policy  
was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of 
the PPI premium). It should have told Mr H about that. Because  it didnt, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Barclays has already  paid back the amount  of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC has already paid him for the commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2440845