K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2008. 
Mrs M says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Mrs M says she didnt  know  the policy had been added  to the card.  So Ive thought about 
this alongside  the other  information I have about the sale.
Barclays has sent us the internet screens  it says it used around the time it sold Mrs M the 
policy. These suggest Mrs M had to select one of three levels  of cover, depending on 
whether she wanted  cover for accident  and sickness, unemployment, or both of these. There  
was also the option not to take the cover. The policy Barclays  sold Mrs M covered her for 
accident and sickness, and also repaid the card if she died.
Ive also seen the agreement Mrs M signed  to agree to the credit card. Theres a separate 
section Mrs M had to tick and sign to confirm  she understood she was buying the PPI  and 
Mrs M has ticked and signed this section.
For these reasons, I think Mrs M understood she was buying PPI  and she chose to buy it.
Barclays didnt advise  Mrs M to buy the policy, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to give Mrs M the information  shed  need to work out for herself whether she 
wanted it.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs M about the policy  wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been. But Mrs M doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it looks  
like the policy could  have  been useful to her. So I dont think better information would have 
stopped her buying it. 
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell 
Mrs M, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  thats  fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything else Mrs M has said, but these points dont change my 
decision. 
Ref: DRN26544372my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs M any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2654437