K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
Mrs R applied for a credit  card with Barclays by post in 2003 and bought  a PPI policy at the 
same time.
She says she didnt need the card because  she had good sick pay and a healthcare  policy 
through her work.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Rs complaint didnt uphold it. Mrs R disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
I can see that, on her postal credit card application, Mrs R ticked to say she wanted  PPI and 
there was also a clear  option for her to say no if she didnt want  it. So I think  Mrs R agreed 
to the PPI knowing she had a choice  about  it.
Because this was a postal sale, I dont think Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs R. This 
means it didnt need to make sure it was right for her in her circumstances. But it did need to 
give her enough  clear information about  the PPI for her to be able to make  that decision 
herself in an informed way. I dont  know  what  steps  Barclays took to do this  and I think  its 
likely that some things about  the policy werent  made as clear  to Mrs R as they shouldve 
been.
But even if Barclays had given Mrs R all the clear information it shouldve done  about the 
PPI, I think  she would still have gone  ahead with it. I say this because, based on the policy 
details Ive got along with the limited  information Mrs R has given us about  her 
circumstances at the time:
It seems  Mrs R was eligible for the cover. Im not sure how long shed been working 
for her employer when  she bought the policy. We did ask her about this but her 
representatives didnt  reply. In any case,  I havent seen anything to make me think 
she couldnt have  benefited fully from the policy if she needed  to. 
Although Mrs R says she got good sick pay, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this 
and for longer than her full sick pay lasted. It would also have  helped  in the same 
way if shed lost her job. 
I dont think the cover  was too expensive and she couldve cancelled  it at any time at 
no extra  cost if she no longer wanted it.
Ref: DRN24866562It follows that I dont think Mrs R has lost out because of anything Barclays  did wrong, so 
theres nothing it needs  to do to put things  right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2486656