K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc incorrectly took a payment for her credit  card causing 
her current  account to go into unarranged overdraft. 
background
Mrs S has a credit card and a current account  with Lloyds.  On 20 September 2018 she 
received a text from the bank informing her she had gone over the limit of her credit card. 
She called Lloyds and made a manual payment for the whole  balance  of £3,838.95. 
On 1 October Lloyds  collected £3,838.95 by direct debit which caused Mrs Ss bank account 
to go into unarranged overdraft. Mrs S complained  to Lloyds. It deposited the balance back 
into her account the same  day. It said it had changed the way additional payments would be 
dealt with and awarded Mrs S £100  for inconvenience and call costs. 
Mrs S wasnt  happy with Lloyds so she brought her complaint to this service.  She said she 
believed Lloyds had stolen the money  from her. She wanted Lloyds to pay 50% of the 
balance payment as compensation. 
The adjudicator thought  Lloyds had acted fairly and as there was no financial  loss the offer 
of £100 was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs S remained dissatisfied and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She thought  
Lloyds had made an error and maintained it should pay her half the value of the direct debit. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs S but having  done  so I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further. 
Lloyds has said it changed  its process  regarding payments shortly before Mrs S made her 
manual payment; if a customer pays by direct  debit the amount collected would no longer be 
reduced by any payment  the customer may have made during that statement period. Its not 
my role to look at the businesss processes, thats the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. So I am unable to say whether  it was right or not for Lloyds to change the way it 
handles payments. I can only decide if its applied  those processes fairly.  
On the day the direct  debit payment was claimed  Mrs S immediately  contacted Lloyds and 
the payment was reversed. Ive looked  at Mrs Ss bank statement and can see the direct  
debit was taken  on 1 October  and the money was returned to the account on the same  day. 
Although the direct  debit did push Mrs Ss account into unarranged overdraft the account  
was quickly recovered  and there  were  no charges. So Im satisfied Mrs S did not suffer any 
financial loss. Lloyds  has explained that the operator  who took the manual payment  would  
not necessarily have checked to see if a direct debit  was in place as it wasnt  their process to 
do that. Lloyds  has said it would take this on board  to see if the process needed improving 
going forward. 
 
Lloyds said it sent out letters to customers to explain the new process on 5 July. But Mrs S 
said she didnt receive the letter and that no one told her about the change.  The bank 
Ref: DRN27271442accepted that it was possible Mrs S didnt receive the letter.  It upheld  Mrs Ss complaint and 
awarded £100 in compensation for inconvenience  and call costs.  
I can see there is a note informing customers of the change on the statement dated 4 
October. So Im satisfied  Mrs S is now aware of the change. 
Im aware that Mrs S is upset the bank took the direct debit after she had already paid off the 
full balance. This was frustrating and upsetting  as it took her into unarranged overdraft 
territory in her current account.  Mrs S has said shes never been overdrawn in all the years  
shes banked with Lloyds.  So its understandable why shes distressed. Mrs S has asked for 
50% of the payment as compensation. 
When deciding what potential compensation to award the ombudsman service takes two 
things into account:  financial  loss as a result  of any business error and non-financial loss, 
including inconvenience  and upset. Mrs S hasnt  suffered any financial loss. I can see that 
Mrs S was caused some inconvenience because she had to call the bank to re-credit  her 
account and having not been in an overdraft  situation before  this would have been worrying. 
But given the payment  was returned on the same day as it was taken out Im satisfied that 
£100, which includes call costs, is fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2727144