K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Ms M under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
that she signed in June  2017. She says that a drive train warning message started  
appearing and then disappearing in May 2018.  A warning then appeared in October 2018 
and she took the car to a manufacturers dealer. It said that the car required work with an 
estimated cost of £3,526.22.
She complained to MotoNovo Finance but it said that it was unable  to uphold her complaint 
as there  was no evidence to confirm the cause  of the faults and because  of the length of 
time that shed had the car and that shed covered approximately  10,000  miles in it. She 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service and she provided  two reports 
from an independent expert.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that Ms M 
hadnt been able to drive  the car since October  2018  because of excessive carbon build-up  
and exhaust gas recirculation  cooler  failure. And she recommended that MotoNovo Finance 
should: repair  the car; return all payments made by Ms M since  October  2018;  pay her £150  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused; and reimburse  her £308 for the 
cost of an independent report.  
MotoNovo Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, 
in summary, that had the carbon build-up been  developing since purchase the fault 
shouldve developed a lot sooner than eleven  months after purchase and Ms M has covered 
over 10,000 miles since purchase  which would imply the car was of satisfactory  quality at the 
point of sale. It also says that the carbon build-up  would more  than likely be due to driving 
style not point of sale faults.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo Finance, as the supplier  of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality. Whether  or not it was will depend on a number of factors,  including  the 
age, and mileage  of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
Ms M was more than five years old, had been  driven  for about  26,000  miles and had a price  
of £19,870. Satisfactory quality also covers durability  which  means that the components 
within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long 
that time is will depend on a number of factors. 
The car was supplied to Ms M in June 2017 and she says that she first noticed warnings 
about the drive  train in May 2018.  A manufacturers dealer estimated that the car required 
work costing  £3,526.22  in October  2018.  
Ref: DRN21300992Ms M arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in October 2018. The 
expert said that the cars engine  had failed due to a massive build-up of carbon and that it 
was probably the worst case that hed seen. He concluded that: 
On balance  of probabilities the problem  existed at purchase and the engine  has only 
lasted for extra  time, because of Claimants  more  regular  and longer  journeys, 
thereby being  better equipped to burn off the deposits than in the engines earlier life 
of lower mileage.
MotoNovo Finance arranged for the car to be inspected by a second independent expert  in 
December 2018.  The report that was produced concluded:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude that the vehicle  
entered limp mode  under  road testing, although  did display no excessive or abnormal 
smoke emissions.
We are advised that there is substantial carbon build up internally to the engine 
assembly. We are however unable to confirm this without  dismantling.
In any case we do however have to take into consideration the considerable time and 
mileage elapsed since the point of finance inception. On this basis on the balance of 
probability the conditions would have  not been developing at this time and have 
progressed and developed thereafter,  potentially due to a lack of or improper  
maintenance.
Ms M then arranged for a second  report from the first independent  expert that had inspected 
the car and the expert rebutted  the conclusions of the report  that MotoNovo Finance had 
arranged.
So the independent experts  have reached very different conclusions. But the first report  
includes photos of the carbon build-up  and refers to it as being massive and the worst case  
that the expert has seen. The second  report says that the expert  was advised that there  was 
substantial carbon build-up  but it hadnt  been confirmed. I consider it to be more likely than 
not that there is a considerable carbon build-up in the cars engine  and that its more  than 
would reasonably be expected on a car of this age and mileage.
Im not persuaded that its likely  that the carbon build-up has been caused since the car was 
supplied to Ms M, that it results from her driving  style or that theres  enough evidence  to 
show that its been caused by a lack of proper maintenance. I consider it to be more likely  
than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality  when  it was supplied to Ms M.
So I find that it would be fair and reasonable  in these  circumstances for MotoNovo Finance 
to arrange and pay for the work estimated by the manufacturers dealer to be completed. 
Ms M hasnt been able to use the car since October  2018 and MotoNovo Finance has 
agreed to suspend her monthly payments. I consider that it should refund to Ms M the 
monthly payments  that shes made under  the agreement since the beginning of October  
2018 (with interest).
Ms M paid £308 for the second report produced by the first expert and I find that it would be 
fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to pay that amount to her to reimburse her for the 
cost of the report (and to also pay interest on it). Ms M has been caused  distress and 
inconvenience by these events. And I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for 
MotoNovo Finance to pay her £150  to compensate her for that distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN21300993my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint. And I order FirstRand  
Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, to:
1.Arrange and pay for the work estimated by the manufacturers dealer to be 
completed.
2.Refund to Ms M the monthly  payments  that shes made under the agreement since  
the beginning of October 2018.
3.Pay £308 to Ms M to reimburse her for the cost of the independent  report.
4.Pay interest on the amounts  at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement
5.Pay £150 to Ms M to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience  that shes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires MotoNovo Finance to deduct tax from the interest  
payment referred  to at 4 above. MotoNovo Finance  must  give Ms M a certificate showing 
how much  tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2130099