K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. The policy was free for the first six months  and a monthly charge was applied  after 
that. Ms R says Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Ms Rs mortgage  application  and theres a section related to PPI. The 
box opting for illness,  injury and unemployment cover has been selected.  Other details, 
including the level of benefit  required and questions about Ms Rs health and employment 
circumstances, have  been entered. Ms R says she wasnt made  aware that the policy  would 
be added  and it was done so without  her consent.   
From what  we know about how B&B sold these types of policies, it usually made it clear it 
was optional. And looking at the information on the application form leads me to think  there 
was a discussion between  Ms R and B&B about  the cover. On balance  I think  its likely B&B 
made it clear  that Ms R didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she cant remember this.
B&B didnt recommend the PPI to Ms R so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Ms R got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information B&B gave Ms R about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  So there  was nothing 
Ms R says she had sick pay benefits  from her employer  she could have used if she needed 
to make her mortgage repayments. The policy wouldve paid alongside  any employee 
benefits she received.  And it doesnt look like Ms R had any other  means - such  as savings - 
so I think the policy  would  have been useful to her.
Ive thought about Ms Rs comments about the fact her friends and family wouldve helped  
out if she was unable to make  her mortgage  repayments. I dont  doubt  her friends and family 
wouldve wanted to help. But peoples circumstances  change  and this help cant  be 
guaranteed. Ms R was taking on a large and long term financial commitment on her own,  
which was secured on her home. So the effects  of not keeping up with the repayments 
couldve been serious for her. And I think having the security that her repayments  wouldve 
been made if she was unable  to work  wouldve been important to her. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable especially  taking into account the first six months of 
the policy was free. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN29417872Overall I dont think Ms R has lost out by anything B&B mightve done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2941787