K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Preferred Mortgages Limited has wrongly treated his mortgage as 
being in arrears, added fees to the mortgage,  threatened  him with legal action, and provided 
poor service overall.
background
Mr M took out his mortgage with Preferred in 2003.  It was set up to be paid on an interest-
only basis for a term of 15 years.
In 2016, Mr M made a complaint. He said Preferred was wrongly claiming the mortgage was 
in arrears. His complaint  was considered  by our service, and an ombudsman  issued a final 
decision about it in March 2017.  The ombudsman concluded that Mr M was responsible  for 
paying any shortfall in his monthly mortgage payments following the reduction in the amount 
being paid by the government. She also said Preferred  was entitled to charge arrears 
management fees. But she ordered Preferred  to refund any insurance premiums it had 
charged for the period  Mr M could show he had his own insurance  elsewhere, plus interest. 
Mr M accepted that decision. Soon afterwards, he got back  in touch with us because 
Preferred had again told him his mortgage  was in arrears. That was later sorted  out  
Preferred accepted it had got things wrong  and paid Mr M £100 compensation.
In February 2018,  Mr M said the same thing  had happened again,  and the problem had been 
compounded because his benefit entitlement had changed in July 2017. Preferred said it 
had only been  receiving payments of £40 a month  towards Mr Ms mortgage since then. This 
was more than £60 a month less than his contractual  monthly  payment  so it considered it 
was right to treat him as in arrears and add charges to the mortgage. It also said it would go 
ahead with legal action to take possession of the property.
Our investigator found that Preferred hadnt  received benefit payments towards Mr Ms 
mortgage since July 2017. She found  that it had had contact from the relevant  government 
agency later in 2017, and it had replied to requests  for information  promptly. She said the 
issue of benefits  payments  not being made  to the mortgage was something for Mr M to take 
up with the relevant agency.
The investigator found that Mr Ms mortgage  was in arrears.  However,  she didnt think  it was 
reasonable for Preferred to have started legal action when it did. She said she took that view 
because:
-the level of arrears on the mortgage  was low; 
-Preferred had wrongly told Mr M he was in arrears in the past, so it was understandable  
that he was confused  about the position;  and
-the mortgage term was due to end soon in any event, in late 2018.
The investigator recommended  that Preferred refund or waive any solicitors  or other legal  
fees, plus interest, pay Mr M £250 by way of compensation, and take no further legal action 
until the mortgage term ends.
Mr M accepted that conclusion, and said he was making enquiries about  his benefit 
payments separately. He then also said he had received a summons  to appear at court in 
Ref: DRN26890412connection with the mortgage arrears. Preferred told us that was a mistake, and it 
apologised. It also said it didnt accept the investigators recommendation. 
Preferred said it was entitled to begin  legal action when it did, in March  2018. At that time, 
the mortgage arrears  were £423.90,  more than four times the contractual  monthly  payment, 
and it hadnt received a full payment since July 2017. The arrears had continued to increase 
since. It also said Mr M knew this, because it had written to him a number of times. It felt it 
had made  things clear, and it was being  asked  to pay compensation in connection with an 
earlier complaint. 
Mr M later got in touch  to say hed increased  his monthly payments to the mortgage, to make  
up the shortfall between  what hed been paying  and his new benefits payments. Hed also 
accepted responsibility for the arrears  after receiving clarification  about  his benefit 
entitlement. But he felt the fees Preferred  had charged him were excessive and unfair.  He 
pointed out that they come to more  than the amount of the mortgage  arrears, and said 
Preferred had delayed  in dealing with his complaint  in order  to add more charges  which  
had now exceeded  £1,000, against payment arrears of less than £600. It also appeared to 
have resumed legal action, even though hed made a proposal to repay  the arrears.
The investigator looked at the arrears management  fees Preferred had added to the 
mortgage. She said they were in line with Preferreds tariff, as well as industry  standards.  
She thought  the fees had been applied fairly given the level of payments Mr M had been  
making, but she queried the legal costs  Preferred had applied in June 2018 after it had 
agreed to suspend legal action.
Preferred agreed to refund those legal fees. It accepted it had agreed to suspend  further  
action and had added  the fees by mistake. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator,  for broadly the same reasons.
I dont think theres now any dispute  that Mr Ms mortgage was in arrears. This situation 
arose because Preferred stopped receiving payments from the relevant government  agency 
and, like the investigator, I dont find this was because of anything  Preferred  did wrong. Mr M 
has since made enquiries of the agency  and, I understand, received confirmation  of his 
entitlement. 
Preferred added fees to the mortgage  while it was in arrears. An ombudsman has already  
considered some of the arrears management fees it charged, as set out in the March 2017  
decision. Its not appropriate for me to reconsider those charges  here,  but I can look at the 
charges that were  applied later.
Having done so, Im satisfied that the arrears management fees were charged in line with 
Preferreds tariffs, which changed  from time to time, and they were not out of line with the 
level of these sorts of charges set by other  lenders. Im also satisfied they were applied  
fairly. The payments  Preferred was receiving to the mortgage fell some way short of the 
contractual monthly payments,  and no payment arrangement was in place. Preferred was 
also actively engaged  in arrears management  and it wrote to Mr M about the arrears and 
Ref: DRN26890413fees. While  Mr M was unclear about what was happening with his benefit payments, that 
was a matter for him rather than for Preferred.
That said,  I dont consider Preferred treated Mr M fairly in instructing solicitors when it did. 
While I have noted what it has said about its policy, I would  expect it to have considered  Mr 
Ms particular circumstances  in making  its decision  to start legal action. When  it decided to 
go ahead, his mortgage arrears came to a little over £400 and Mr M had queried  that figure. 
The problem with Mr Ms benefit payments was not down  to Preferred. But I find Preferred 
did not explain to Mr M where the arrears balance had come  from or confirm whether it was 
receiving his benefit payments  despite correspondence  from Mr M specifically asking 
about what payments  it was receiving directly, and saying he could make neither head nor 
tail of its claim that he was in arrears to the extent it said. 
Lenders are required to treat borrowers in financial difficulty fairly. I dont consider Preferred 
did so here,  and I share the investigators view that it should refund any legal costs it has 
added to the mortgage, as well as any associated interest. That includes the £90 fee for 
referring the matter  to solicitors and the £350.75 fee which was applied in June 2018  and 
which Preferred has already agreed to refund.
I think its clear  from Mr Ms correspondence  that he has found  the letters he has received 
about legal  action  including a court  summons  stressful and upsetting. I find he should 
fairly receive  some compensation in recognition of that, and I consider £250  is fair in all the 
circumstances.
The term of Mr Ms mortgage has now ended.  I also understand that the mortgage has 
recently been transferred to a new lender. That lender should treat Mr M fairly if he is in 
financial difficulty; Mr M can also obtain  free debt advice as the investigator has said.  I would 
encourage him to keep an open dialogue with the lender about his financial circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Preferred Mortgages  Limited should:
-refund  any fees for referral to solicitors and other legal costs which it applied to Mr Ms 
mortgage in 2018,  together with any interest charged on those fees;  and
-pay Mr M £250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2689041