K821x#15complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about the advice  he received  from Facts & Figures  Financial Planners 
Ltd to transfer  funds  from his personal  pension  into a new Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). He says his was set up specifically so he could then invest in a Harlequin  overseas 
property investment.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 5 November 2018.  A copy  is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.  In the provisional decision I set out that I believed  the complaint should be 
upheld. 
Mr W made no further submissions in response  to the provisional decision. 
Facts & Figures  did not accept the provisional decision and made further  submissions. 
I have not set out every point that Facts  & Figures submitted but I have taken them all into 
account. In summary,  Facts & Figures:
Set out certain sections of the Fraud Act 2006.
Set out that it required further questions  to be sought from Mr W because it did not 
consider his submission  accurate.  Some of these questions  were about information 
he had completed  on Fact Finds  and some with respect to information  about Atlantic 
Overseas and his interest in the Harlequin investment.
Commented that the investment decision was clinched by Mr Ws unregulated 
introducers discussions with Mr W about the investment.
Said this complaint differs  from the situation  described in the FSAs 2013 alert (as 
discussed in the provisional  decision). This was because both Facts & Figures  and 
the introducer were  regulated entities and part of a networking chapter of a business 
network. They had listened to presentations  from Harlequin but only the introducer 
had invested.  And the introducers confidence  in the investment was so strong that 
he set up an unregulated business  to introduce investors to Harlequin - but was also 
a regulated entity in receipt  of the same information pertaining to UCIS and its 
promotion post 2008 as Facts & Figures. 
It is also because the introducer invested his own money in Harlequin and created a 
business to introduce  it to potential investors.  The director  of Facts & Figures had no 
such feelings and: 
(Facts & Figures)  Harlequin Research paper 201101  (sic) makes clear  that in theory, 
with such big players,  the investment looked acceptable but could only ever be 
offered to a person who understood that it was very high risk and was only attractive 
as it had such traction at the highest level.
Said that the only way Facts & Figures would create a SIPP  was to tell the client that 
the investment  into Harlequin was contrary to its advice. It would provide warnings it 
its letters. 
Ref: DRN21917472Said Facts & Figures did not recommend Harlequin to any of its clients  because they 
were not sufficiently experienced to fall under  exemption 4.12 or the PCIS Order  
2001. 
Set out how Mr W had completed (or not) the Fact Finds and how he was aware of 
this. 
Said that Mr Ws mortgage broker (who was also the introducer  for the investment) 
had told him about the adventurous nature of Harlequin, that he should  not put all his 
eggs in one basket and should be looking  at other pension provision. Facts & 
Figures and the introducer acting together carried  out the regulatory obligations. 
Said that Mr W could be considered an insistent client.  
Said that all the liability should not rest with Facts & Figures
Said that Mr W was aware of what he was doing and had been given sufficient 
warnings - as well as Facts & Figures stating it did not recommend this course of 
action. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A considerable amount  of the matters  reiterated in the recent submission have been 
addressed in the provisional decision and I would refer the parties to it. I would however add:
 It is correct  that Mr W did not fill in large  sections  of the Fact Find dated 11 
January 2011.   I discussed this and the ramification  of it in the provisional decision. It 
seems to be inferred now that Mr W is therefore responsible  for the ramifications of 
not disclosing  information. Rather it is Facts & Figures  which  is responsible for the 
unsuitability of the investment for Mr W if it acted without the information  it need to 
fulfil its duties to Mr W. If Facts and Figures could not give suitable advice then it 
should not have given  any or declined to carry out the transaction  for Mr W. I would  
agree that the risk grading of 5 was selected on the Fact Find. I considered  this in 
the provisional decision. 
The fact that the adviser at Facts & Figures would  not invest his own money in 
Harlequin is not relevant to this complaint. And I considered in the provisional  
decision what Facts and Figures said in its recommendation to Mr W. It did not say in 
that recommendation that investment into Harlequin  was contrary  to its advice  and 
why. I set out what it did say in the provisional decision.
 The fact that Facts & Figures did not recommend Harlequin to any of its 
clients does not determine that Mr W was dealt  with appropriately. But from the 
submission that has been  made  it is clear that Facts & Figures was aware of the 
restrictions on promoting the Harlequin  investment  to sufficiently experienced clients. 
Although Facts & Figures says it understood that the individuals introduced  to it 
would have an aggressive  stance  to investment  I have explained why, given  what it 
knew (or did not know) about  Mr W, it should not have  carried  out the SIPP 
Ref: DRN21917473investment for him as it had not gained sufficient  information to advise him properly. 
And it did not advise  him properly about the Harlequin investment itself.
There is no supporting  evidence as to what Mr Ws mortgage broker told Mr W about 
the investment  and I have not seen  any documentary evidence  from the mortgage  
broker to Mr W to that effect. In any event,  as discussed in the provisional  decision, 
Fact & Figures  had its own responsibilities. 
Mr W was introduced  to Facts  & Figures by another  entity. Fact & Figures seems to 
say it relied on that party to give information and/or guidance to Mr W to satisfy some  
its own responsibilities. And this promoter or introducer had already sold the idea of 
the Harlequin property investment to him. My understanding is that this introducer 
was not authorised to give regulated investment  advice and Facts & Figures knew  
that. That introducer was also not acting in his role as mortgage broker when he 
promoted Harlequin to Mr W. 
But in any event, in order to give suitable  advice under COBS  9 as to the SIPP,  Facts 
& Figures would  have to take into account  of the investment itself, for which the SIPP 
was created and was the reason for the whole arrangement going ahead. The SIPP 
advice cannot  be artificially separated from the investment  to follow,  even if it thought 
another party was also providing advice. Fact & Figures had its own responsibilities 
when providing  the advice  on the SIPP to make  sure its responsibilities  were  
discharged and it cannot simply  ignore  those  responsibilities. If that means that it is 
duplicating advice  or guidance  elsewhere then that is caused simply by the nature of 
the advice it is providing. It cannot discharge  its own regulatory responsibilities by 
saying that another party  is undertaking that duty. As discussed  in the provisional 
decision, Facts & Figures  did not fulfil its duties  and advise Mr W appropriately.  
As to Facts & Figures liability for Mr Ws loss, I set out in the provisional decision why 
it was appropriate  for Facts & Figures to compensate Mr W for its failures  which led 
to him investing in Harlequin. 
I accept that there can be what would  be termed  insistent clients  who wish to 
proceed even when a business  says that it is not recommending a course of action.  
But I do not believe that is the correct  classification of Mr W here because he was not 
given full and balanced advice and guidance  about what he was doing and I do not 
believe Facts & Figures fulfilled its duties  in that regard as discussed in the 
provisional decision. Facts & Figures says that the FCA sets out:
Although there are no rules specifically  about  insistent clients, you must  follow  the
normal advice rules  first. So you must  obtain the necessary information about the
client, their investment objectives, financial situation,  and knowledge and experience
so as to enable you to make  a suitable  personal  recommendation  (see COBS 9.2(3].
You must also act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests  of the client
(see COBS 2.1.1(4]).'
I do not believe that Facts & Figures did that, as set out in the provisional decision.  
I recognised in the provisional  decision that Mr W had been  introduced  to Facts  & 
Figures with the potential of making an investment  in Harlequin in mind. But I do not 
believe he was set on making that investment,  whatever  it did or said,  as Fact & 
Figures suggest. If Facts & Figures had met its obligations to Mr W, part of which 
Ref: DRN21917474was to carry out sufficient  fact finding and then fully explain clearly  all the risks of 
Harlequin and the various reasons why it was not suitable for him, not just that in 
would not advise investing in one asset class,  then I do not believe it is likely he 
would have gone on to invest.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. I order  Facts  & Figures Financial Planners  Ltd to calculate and pay 
fair compensation as set out in the attached  provisional decision. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr W 
within 90 days of the date Facts & Figures receives notification  of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Facts  & Figures to pay Mr W this compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN21917475copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about  the advice he received  from Facts & Figures Financial Planners Ltd to 
transfer funds from his personal  pension  into a new Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He says 
his was set up specifically so he could then invest in a Harlequin overseas  property investment.
background
A representative of a business called Atlantic Overseas Investments first drew Mr Ws attention  to 
the Harlequin  investment opportunity. Mr W has said that he was told that in order to invest  his 
pension money in Harlequin  he would  first need to set up a SIPP.
In order  to set up the SIPP Mr W was referred to Facts  & Figures.  It completed a review of his 
financial circumstances in January 2011. It was noted  that:
Mr W was 40 and self-employed.
His aim was to retire  at 65. He had no occupational  pension provision.
His attitude to risk was Aggressive. This meant risk level five  on a scale of one to five. It was 
defined as: You  are prepared to invest in asset based investments  worldwide. You  are comfortable 
with investments  in high risk funds such as individual shares and even unquoted  investments. It is likely 
that a significant proportion of total funds would  be in equities. You accept that significant  investment 
volatility is  almost  inevitable but  are hoping for better  overall long term  performance.
It was recorded that Mr W didnt wish to provide  any further  details. The firm wrote, in November 
2011, confirming receipt of Mr Ws letter of authority.  It said that he had declined the offer of an 
investment report as he had already conducted  your own research for free.
On 19 January 2011, a pension review report was prepared. 
Page two of this report noted, you have  already made a decision  to invest  in overseas property  via a SIPP. 
Using a single asset class for investment is a very high risk strategy but  one which you are  comfortable  will 
bear fruit. However this is  an investment strategy  that we do not recommend.
The report noted Mr W held a Skandia personal  pension  plan. This had a transfer value of about  
£61,000. 
The report confirmed  the recommendation. This was to switch the existing personal pension  into a 
SIPP with DP Pensions Ltd. This was because  Mr W had already  chosen the fund he wanted to invest 
in and had,  satisfied yourself that the returns from the overseas  property will exceed that available 
elsewhere and are equally  satisfied that if this does not come off the fund is insufficiently  material to 
cause you undue concern.
Mr W signed the report on 20 January 2011.  
The adjudicator noted the application form setting up the SIPP  with Premier Trust  was signed on 11 
January 2011, which is before the report.
The Financial Services Authority issued  an alert to the industry about  the fund on 18 January 2013.
Mr Ws representative  complained to the firm on his behalf in April 2015. It asked it to investigate the 
suitability of the advice Mr W received. 
Ref: DRN21917476Facts & Figures issued  its response to the complaint in December 2015. It rejected the complaint. It 
said that it didnt advise Mr W to invest in the Harlequin investment. It only advised  on which SIPP 
was suitable.
Mr W and his representative remained  dissatisfied  with Facts & Figures  response.  The complaint was 
then passed to this service.
The adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. I have summarised his reasons:
Mr W was referred  to the Facts  & Figures by Atlantic Overseas.  It had brought the Harlequin 
investment to Mr Ws attention. The adjudicator didnt  agree  Mr W had sourced the Harlequin 
investment himself.
The firm arranged the SIPP in the full knowledge of where the money transferred would be 
invested. The adjudicator  didnt  agree it was credible to argue  it had no opinion  about the 
proposed Harlequin investment. Or that it would  be possible to assess if a SIPP was suitable 
without also assessing the suitability of the proposed  investment.
He didnt  agree that the advice met the requirements of COBS 9.2. This required the firm to 
take reasonable  steps  to ensure its recommendation was suitable  based on the customers 
knowledge, experience,  financial situation and investment objectives.
The recommendation mentioned losing  the capital was of no consequence  to Mr W. But 
theres no evidence upon  which  to base such a statement. And there is no record of Mr Ws 
other assets to support that statement. 
The firms position  that it provided  no advice was not supported by the fact it provided  a 
recommendation letter.
Mr Ws attitude to risk was assessed as aggressive.  But his existing pension  was invested in 
a mainstream fund presenting much  less risk than this. That pension provided  a wide range  of 
alternative funds. So he did not feel there was any persuasive evidence  to explain such  a 
change in attitude,  or a need for this investment. 
The regulator made its clear  in its final notices that it considered businesses to have been 
obliged by COBS to assess the suitability  of underlying investments to be made  through 
SIPPs.
Mr W didnt  provide any further information.
Facts & Figures didnt  agree  with the adjudicator. It made several submissions, all of which I have 
considered. I have not repeated each point it raised, but have summarised what I consider to be the 
main points:
It reiterated  that it was Mr W who chose a very high risk strategy.  And that it was Mr W who 
confirmed he had already made  up his mind to go ahead  with the investment.
It didnt  have a business  relationship with Atlantic Overseas.  The adjudicator alluded  to this 
when considering  if there was a reason Mr W was referred to this firm in particular.
It stated  it had pointed out the high risk of this approach and recommended  not making the 
investment. But the adjudicator ignored this fact.
It advised  the client not to invest and Mr W ignored its advice. Mr W should not therefore be 
able to pursue it for losses  caused by his decision  to invest. 
Ref: DRN21917477The firm concurs that it was required to assess the underlying investment in Harlequin  and 
the suitability of the transfer  into a SIPP. It doesnt agree it was required to assess  the specific 
suitability of the Harlequin  fund.
The firm didnt agree that it had only considered  the suitability of the SIPP. It had reviewed the 
proposed Harlequin investment. It recommended against it.
The firm rejected  any inference that there was any incentive offered to any third party  to refer 
consumers to it. It has never received any remuneration from anyone linked to Harlequin.
The firm has accepted its obligation to consider the suitability of an underlying investment (in 
this case  Harlequin). And it has met its COBS 9 rule requirements.
The firm agreed it had the option to turn down  the business. But it also explained  it could 
proceed if it has satisfactorily warned the consumer that they proceeded contrary to the firms 
advice and acted on an insistent  client  basis.
The firm queried how the adjudicator could  dispute that Mr Ws attitude  to risk was not 
recorded correctly. It was Mr W who recorded it. It rejected any suggestion Mr W was not 
capable of correctly  identifying which risk rating was suitable.
It provided references for other related decisions which it felt matched the circumstances of 
this complaint. 
It pointed  out Mr W was the managing  director of a business that specialised in developing 
opportunities, improving cash flow and increasing  profitability. Mr W reasonably had an above 
average understanding of financial matters.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
the scope of the advice
Facts & Figures has said that it did know the intention was to invest into Harlequin  and it did take this 
into account  when advising  on the SIPP. However it seems to me it has said that it did not have to 
consider the suitability  of the investment itself.  
Facts & Figures had a duty under the relevant rules, in particular COBS 2 and COBS 9, set out 
previously by the FSA and now Financial Conduct Authority (FCA),  to act in Mr Ws best interests, 
know its client  and give suitable advice. In my view it could not so without taking account  of the 
investment which the SIPP was put into place to facilitate. The only reason  for the creation of the 
SIPP and the transfer was to enable the overseas property investment to take place  the Facts & 
Figures adviser knew this and has made statements to that effect in his report about the advice he 
gave. 
I would also mention  that, additionally, the agent who introduced Mr W to Facts & Figures,  was 
unregulated. The Facts & Figures adviser  knew this and therefore would have been aware that Mr W 
could not receive regulated  financial advice from that party. This should have indicated  to Facts & 
Figures there was an even  greater need to make sure that the overall transaction  of transfer to the 
SIPP and investment  to follow was suitable  for Mr W.
And Im also mindful  that in January 2013, the FSA issued an alert:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving  advice to 
customers on pension  transfers  or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
Ref: DRN21917478disadvantages of investment  proposed  to be held within  the new pension. In particular, we have seen 
advisers moving customers retirement savings to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often illiquid unregulated investments (some which  may be in 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
The cases we have seen  tend to operate under a similar  advice model. An introducer will pass  
customer details to an unregulated firm, which markets an unregulated investment (e.g. an overseas  
property development). When the customer expresses an interest in the unregulated investment,  the 
customer is introduced  to a regulated financial adviser  to provide advice on a SIPP capable of holding 
the unregulated investment. The financial adviser  does  not give advice on the unregulated 
investment, and says it is only providing  advice on a SIPP capable of holding  the unregulated  
investment. Sometimes  the regulated financial adviser  also assists the customer  to unlock  monies 
held in other investments so that the customer is able to invest  in the unregulated investment
 where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will transfer  out of a 
current pension arrangement to release funds to invest  in an overseas property  investment under  a 
SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment must form part of the advice about  
whether the customer  should transfer into the SIPP.  If, taking into account the individual 
circumstances of the customer, the original pension product, including  its underlying  holdings, is more 
suitable for the customer then the SIPP is not suitable.
This is because if you give regulated advice  and the recommendation will enable investment in 
unregulated items you cannot  separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
 The FSA asks regulated firms, in particular  financial adviser and SIPP Operators  to report  those 
FSA firms that are carrying on these activities in breach of the FSA requirements
This alert didnt make  any changes to the regulations,  it was not new regulation  that had not applied 
previously. It simply re-stated the principles that already  applied, and which were  in place in 2010 
when the advice was given.
My view is not dependent on comments made by the industry regulator as to the type of process 
Facts & Figures carried out to facilitate the investment. I take an independent  view based on the 
circumstances of the complaint and take into account  the rules, law and good  practice in place at the 
time to arrive at decision  that is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. But my view is consistent  
with general  comments from the regulator about this type of process   that consideration should be 
given when advice is given to transfer a SIPP, to the suitability of the overall  proposition  both SIPP 
and investment to be taken  out. 
The regulators comments refer directly to the situation here  where advice is being  given about a 
SIPP to invest in overseas property. It said that where an adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that 
the customer  will sell current investments to fund overseas property  then the suitability of that 
investment must be taken into account.  
I would reiterate that I do not agree that simply  because the regulators alerts  were given after Facts  
& Figures gave its advice  that they are irrelevant  all the alerts did was highlight the existing 
obligations (which applied at the time this advice  was given) when giving advice such  as this. It was 
not setting out new standards for businesses to follow.
So my view is that Facts & Figures did have to take into account  and advise  on the specific suitability 
of the investment as well as the overall arrangement  of SIPP and investment.
the suitability of the advice
Having decided that Facts  & Figures needed to take into account the suitability of the investment the 
SIPP was set up to facilitate,  I have then considered the advice Mr W was given. 
Ref: DRN21917479As discussed, Facts & Figures had a duty to consider the underlying investment  as well as the 
suitability of the SIPP.  Facts  & Figures has said it did that as it said: 
Using a single  asset class for  investment is a very high risk strategy but one which you are  comfortable  will 
bear fruit. However this is  an investment strategy  that we do not recommend.
That is not advice about the Harlequin investment itself but one individual comment about the general 
advisability of investing  using one asset class. It is one part of an assessment  of suitability of a course 
of action but does not mean that Facts & Figures responsibilities to take into account  all the factors 
relating to the suitability of an investment  approach are satisfied.
Indeed in its Suitability Report Facts & Figures said that 
You had already completed your research  on the overseas property  investment and I have not 
provided you with any advice in respect  of that investment. (my emphasis) You are quite 
adamant that this is what you want to do and have expressly instructed us merely to facilitate the 
pension transfers.
As discussed, Facts & Figures could not give suitable advice on the combined  SIPP and investment 
without taking  into account the investment itself. 
Facts & Figures has said that Mr W completed the Fact Find on his own and poorly without any 
guidance from it. 
The details recorded  on the fact find were that Mr W was self-employed.  There  is no detail about  the 
nature of his business, his income,  outgoings, his investments or savings, assets his objectives, 
health or dependants. Apart  from his age, address and intended retirement  age there is essentially no 
other detail  apart  from the selection  of an Attitude to risk profile.   
In terms of attitude to investment risk, as discussed, Mr Ws was recorded as 
aggressive - at level five on a scale of one to five. This was described as:
You are prepared  to invest in asset based investments worldwide. You are
comfortable with investments in high risk funds such as individual  shares and even
unquoted investments.  It is likely that a significant proportion of total funds would be
in equities. You accept  that significant investment volatility is almost inevitable  but
are hoping  for better  overall long term performance.
Mr W says that he does  recall signing the fact find at the offices  of Atlantic Overseas/his mortgage 
broker (who  were at the same  address)  but that none  of the writing or circling on the form is his. 
He also says that: 
I do not recall anyone making a big thing of it being a high risk strategy  at any point in the
process and I certainly  do not remember  anyone saying they do not recommend the strategy. 
And:
At no point did I ever meet  (the Facts & Figures adviser) or speak with him or anyone from Facts & 
Figures on the phone, as I remember  pieces  of paper were placed  in front of me which  I signed.
Mr W has been asked about his investments at the time and has confirmed  that he didnt  have any 
other investments.
So Mr W didnt have any investments of an aggressive  or high risk nature. He had mainstream 
collective funds  in his pensions. He had no history of investing in high risk or unregulated investments 
like Harlequin.    
Ref: DRN219174710It does not seem to be disputed that Mr W approached  Facts & Figures with the Harlequin  property 
investment in mind.  But that was likely  a result of a promotion of that investment to him by the 
Harlequin agent  Mr W had not arrived  at this decision on his own. 
When asked about why he wished to make the investment Mr W has said that the investment was 
introduced to him by his mortgage broker, who then introduced him to Atlantic Overseas.  He said he 
cannot recall  putting a deposit down for the Harlequin  investment before he was in contact with Facts 
& Figures.
Mr W has said that he did research  Harlequin but does not agree that he was adamant  he wanted to 
invest in it.
The Harlequin  investment was an off plan  unregulated speculative overseas  property investment. It 
was high risk and the investor faced  the real possibility of losing all their money. Because it was 
unregulated Mr W did not benefit from the protection afforded by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme.  His circumstances  do not indicate  that he was prepared to lose all his money  
or that he was suitable to the risks this investment presented. 
The risk grading itself,  which may or may not be accurate, is very much out of line with Mr Ws 
circumstances and experience.  But Facts & Figures accepted  it without question, without any 
reasoning from Mr W as to why he had chosen  that, or other detail  about his background or 
experience. It was not completed after a discussion  or risk assessment with Facts & Figures (or it 
seems any regulated party)  to make sure that this was accurate. In any event it is one part of an 
assessment of suitability and does not mean that an investment in Harlequin was suitable  for Mr W.
Mr Ws investment  experience was limited and does not suggest  that he was an experienced investor 
who could appreciate all the risks of what he was doing  or would  not be reliant on Facts & Figures to 
give him suitable  advice or consider his best interests.  I have  not seen that Facts & Figures gave Mr 
W any material advice about the Harlequin  investment itself,  such as I have discussed. In particular 
that it was unregulated and therefore did not benefit from regulatory protections. 
The value of Mr Ws pension  funds was relatively modest at about £60,500. The material issue is that 
the majority  of that money (£60,000) was designated for investing in Harlequin.  Whilst Facts & 
Figures did say that investing in one asset class was high risk it should have explained in detail why 
doing so in Harlequin was not advisable  in his particular situation taking into account  all his 
circumstances. 
As discussed Facts & Figures knew that Mr W was intending to invest  almost all of his pension funds 
in Harlequin.  It asked  him to complete a Fact Find. That Fact Find contained very little detail about Mr 
W or his financial situation. There was an attitude  to risk which apparently Mr W completed by himself  
and was not questioned, even though Facts & Figures knew nothing of his background or financial 
circumstances. There was no detail  about his objectives, income, expenditure, assets,  savings, 
investments or liabilities. There was little detail about his current pension apart from the fact he did 
have a personal pension but no occupational scheme. It should  have been apparent, given Mr Ws 
lack of investment  experience that the Harlequin  investment was not suitable for him.       
In my view Facts & Figures did not meet its requirements under COBS  9 to take reasonable steps to 
ensure suitability  or obtain enough information so as to advise Mr W appropriately. It could  not in my 
view have  assessed whether  this investment  and the overall arrangement of SIPP and investment 
was suitable for Mr W give the lack of information it had. It should  not have agreed to carry  out the 
arrangement of the SIPP  in this situation. If it had carried out appropriate fact finding and assessment 
of the Harlequin  investment  then it would  have known this investment was not suitable for Mr W. It 
should have set out in more  detail why the investment was not appropriate for Mr W and it should  
have advised against it. Facts & Figures did not explain that Harlequin was unregulated  (and what  
that meant in terms of regulatory protections), high risk and that Mr W could lose all his money. This 
Ref: DRN219174711was particularly  important  because  Facts & Figures did know that Mr W did not have any occupational 
scheme and this could be his only pension  benefits. 
       
In summary: 
Facts & Figures said to Mr W that investing a large  proportion of his money  in one asset class  was a 
high risk strategy. But it did not set out any other  risks or factors affecting Harlequin  apart from it may 
be illiquid. For example  what it did not say was Harlequin was high risk in its own right, whatever 
amount was invested  in it. I disagree that Fact & Figures stated Harlequin was high risk  it said the 
putting all the money in one investment was high risk. And, as I have said,  Facts & Figures did not 
explain that Harlequin was unregulated (and what  that meant in terms of regulatory  protections),  and 
that Mr W could lose all his money. It did not obtain sufficient information  to advise Mr W appropriately 
as is required by the COBS Rules so that it could give suitable advice  which  should have given full 
reasons why this investment  wasnt suitable for him and he should not invest.       
 
The fact that apparently Facts & Figures  thought  that Mr W had done his own research  on Harlequin 
does not absolve it of the requirement  to give suitable advice and act in Mr Ws best interests. 
 
did Facts & Figures cause  Mr Ws loss
Mr W was not a financial  adviser and would have been reliant on Facts & Figures to give him suitable 
advice. Whilst I am sure he was a professional in his field that does not mean he was aware of all the 
risks of the Harlequin investment. 
If Facts & Figures  had advised Mr W of the full extent of the risk of the investment itself and that it was 
not suitable for him and so he should not transfer or invest in Harlequin, I think  it more likely that he 
would have taken account of that advice  and it would have been persuasive, coming  from a 
professional regulated financial adviser. I think it is more  likely  that he would not have invested and 
this advice  would have changed his motivation to invest in Harlequin. 
It follows that he would not have transferred, nor needed to have transferred, his pension to the SIPP.  
So neither the SIPP nor the investment would have taken place  but for Facts & Figures 
recommendation. Consequently  any loss Mr W has suffered through transferring to the SIPP and 
investing in Harlequin has been caused by Facts & Figures advice.    
Ref: DRN219174712Im aware that a party involved with Harlequin  Property had been charged with fraud offences. A court  
might therefore conclude that the loss doesnt flow directly from Facts & Figures  unsuitable advice. 
And on this basis, a court  might not require Facts & Figures to compensate Mr W  notwithstanding 
the clearly unsuitable advice. 
But in assessing fair compensation, Im not limited to the position  a court  might take.
It may be there has been a break  in the chain of causation. That might mean it wouldnt be fair to 
say that all of the losses suffered flowed  from the unsuitable  advice. That will depend on the particular 
circumstances of the case. No liability  will arise for an adviser who has given suitable advice even if 
fraud later takes  place. But the position is different where  the consumer wouldnt have been in the 
investment in the first place without the unsuitable advice. In that situation, it may be fair to assess 
compensation on our usual  basis  aiming to put the consumers in the position they would have been 
in if theyd  been given  suitable advice.
In this particular case, I conclude  that it would be fair and reasonable to make an award, given  the 
specific circumstances. I am satisfied that Mr W would not have  made the Harlequin  Property 
investment had it not been  for the failings  of Facts & Figures. If the adviser had given Mr W suitable 
advice, the Harlequin Property  investment  would not have been made. And I consider  that the advice 
given by the adviser  completely disregarded Mr Ws interests.  As a direct result  of the advisers failure  
to give suitable advice, Mr W invested his pension  into a specialised, unregulated  investment with a 
limited track record.  
So I think that its fair and reasonable to hold Facts & Figures responsible for the whole  of the loss 
suffered by Mr W. I am not asking Facts & Figures to account for loss that goes beyond  the 
consequences of its failings. I am satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in 
question. That other parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter,  which  I 
am not able to determine. However,  that fact should not impact on Mr Ws right to compensation from 
Facts & Figures for the full amount of the loss.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Mr W as close 
to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable  advice.
I think  with suitable advice Mr W would  have kept his existing pension. The reason  for the creation of 
the SIPP  was investing in Harlequin and if that had not gone ahead there would have been no reason 
to transfer to the SIPP. So most likely  Mr W would have simply retained his original pension.  
However its unlikely to be possible for Facts & Figures to reinstate  Mr W into his previous pension  
scheme. 
There are also a number of possibilities and unknown  factors in making an award. While I understand 
Harlequin Property will allow Facts & Figures  to take over the investment from Mr W, the involvement 
of third parties  the SIPP  provider and Harlequin  Property  means  much of this is beyond this 
service or Facts & Figures control.  
All the variables are unknown  and each may have an impact on the extent of any award this service 
may make. The facts suggest its unlikely that the property will be completed and unlikely that the 
contract and any future payments would be enforceable   but I cant  be certain of that.
While its complicated to put Mr W back in the position he would have been  in if suitable  advice had 
been given, I think its fair that Mr W is compensated now. I dont think we should  wait and determine 
each and every possibility  before making  an award. What is set out below is a fair way of achieving  
this. 
 In summary, Facts & Figures  should:
Ref: DRN2191747131.Obtain  the notional transfer  value  of Mr Ws previous pension plan, as at the date of my 
final decision, if it had not been transferred to the SIPP.  
2.Obtain  the transfer value, as date of my final decision, of Mr Ws SIPP, including  any 
outstanding charges. 
3.And then pay the amount of (1  2) into Mr Ws SIPP so that the transfer value  is 
increased by the amount  calculated. This payment  should take account of any available 
tax relief and the effect of charges.
In addition, Facts & Figures should:
4.Pay any future fees owed  by Mr W to the SIPP,  for the next five years.
5.Pay Mr W £500  for the trouble and upset caused.
I have set out each point in further detail below.
1.Obtain  the notional transfer  value  of Mr Ws previous pension plan if it had not been transferred to 
the SIPP.  That should be the value at the date of this decision.
Facts & Figures should ask Mr W's former pension provider to calculate the notional  transfer value 
that would have  applied as at the date of this decision had he not transferred his pension  but instead 
remained invested. 
If there  are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income 
Total Return  Index should be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have 
been achieved if suitable  funds  had been  chosen.
Facts & Figures should assume that any contributions  or withdrawals that have been made  would still 
have been made, and on the same dates.
2Obtain  the transfer value as at the date of the decision of Mr W s SIPP, including  any 
outstanding charges. 
This should be confirmed by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued  to take charges from the 
SIPP and there wasnt an adequate  cash balance  to meet them,  it might be a negative figure. 
3Pay an amount into Mr Ws SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the amount 
calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any available tax relief  and the effect of 
charges.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, Facts & Figures should  pay it as a cash 
sum to Mr W. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would have provided a taxable  income. 
Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Ws marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
4Pay any future fees owed  to the SIPP for the next five years.
Had Facts & Figures given suitable  advice  I dont think there would  be a SIPP. Its not fair that Mr W 
continues to pay the annual  SIPP fees if it cant be closed. 
Ref: DRN219174714Ideally, Facts  & Figures should take over the investment to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr W back in the position he would  have been in. But the ownership  of the 
Harlequin Property investment cant currently be transferred. Its likely  that will change at some point,  
but I dont know when that will be  there are a number  of uncertainties. 
So, to provide  certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Facts & Figures pays Mr W an upfront lump  
sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years  fees), or 
undertakes to cover  the fees that fall due during  the next five years.  This should provide  a reasonable 
period for things to be worked out so the SIPP can be closed. 
In return  for the compensation  set out above, Facts & Figures  may ask Mr W to provide an 
undertaking to give it the net amount of any payment he may receive  from the Harlequin Property 
investment in that five year period, as well as any other payment he may receive from any party as a 
result of the investment.  That undertaking should  allow  for the effect of any tax and charges  on the 
amount he may receive. Facts & Figures will need to meet any costs in drawing  up this undertaking. If 
it asks Mr W to provide an undertaking, payment  of the compensation  awarded  by this decision may 
be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.  
If, after five years, Facts & Figures  wants to keep  the SIPP open,  and to maintain  an undertaking  for 
any future payments  under  the Harlequin  Property investment, it must  agree to pay any further future  
SIPP fees.  If Facts & Figures  fails to pay the SIPP  fees,  Mr W should  then have  the option of trying  to 
cancel the Harlequin Property contract to enable  the SIPP to be closed.
In addition, Facts & Figures is entitled  to take, if it wishes, an assignment from Mr W of any claim Mr 
W may have against any third parties in relation to this pension transfer and Harlequin  Property 
investment. If Facts & Figures chooses to take an assignment of rights, it must be effected before 
payment of compensation is made. Facts & Figures must first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr 
W for his consideration and agreement. 
5Pay Mr W £500  for the trouble and upset caused.
I believe this matter would have caused  significant inconvenience and upset for Mr W and he should 
receive a payment for this. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint and intend to order  Facts  & Figures to pay fair compensation  as detailed 
above.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2191747