K820x#14Complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about Citygate Automotive Ltd (the business) not honouring a deal it had 
offered when he contacted it in regard to a car.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties so I wont  repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr G received a quote for a contract  hire agreement on 27 March  2019. The 
business has said that had he paid a deposit at that time this would have  secured the 
offer for him. Mr G didnt pay a deposit  and he continued to negotiate about the price. 
Based on the ongoing discussions in March, Mr G wasnt  happy to accept the offer 
that had been made  and the amount  of discount he wanted  hadnt been agreed by 
the business. Therefore I find it reasonable to accept that Mr G hadnt accepted this 
offer at the time it was provided.
The March offer includes a statement saying the quotation will apply for 30 days 
from the above date subject  to changes in vehicle or equipment prices, prevailing 
interest rates or any relevant changes in the law. Based on the information provided,  
changes had happened which meant  the original offer was no longer available. As 
the March offer hadnt been accepted,  I do not find that the business did anything 
wrong in April 2019, by saying that the March offer was no longer available.  
Mr G was in contact  with the business  at end of March  and complains that he wasnt  
told he would need to accept the offer in March for it to hold. The business  has said 
that the offers it has are subject  to change by the manufacturer  and it doesnt have 
control over this. So while I note Mr Gs comments,  I do not find that the business did 
anything wrong  in the information it provided.
Mr G also said, in early April,  that the agreement would be for his wife. Based on this 
the offer would need to have  been set up in a different name  at that time and the 
original offer wouldnt have been  valid.
In this case, I can understand why Mr G was upset that the offer he was initially 
provided wasnt available to him a few days later.  But, as the business provided  him 
with accurate information about the pricing  available and Mr G was given the 
information he needed to make an informed  decision  I do not find it has done 
anything wrong. I do not require  the business  to provide Mr G with an offer that is no 
longer available and by providing Mr G with the options available  to him I find that it 
has acted reasonably towards  him.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN21017222My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Citygate Automotive  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2101722