K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1989. Mr and Mrs M say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs M case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr and Mrs M havent said much about  what happened at the time they took out the 
MPPI, so Ive considered whether Bradford & Bingley gave them  a fair choice in taking 
the MPPI. Bradford & Bingley  has been able to provide  a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage application, on this I can see that the MPPI is presented  as an optional 
product, and choices  have been made about the type and level of cover. Mr and Mrs M 
have then signed the application, agreeing to the information  on it. So I think Bradford & 
Bingley made it clear  that Mr and Mrs M didnt  have  to take out the MPPI and that they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand if they cant  remember  this as it was so 
long ago.
Bradford & Bingley  recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs M so it had to check  that the 
MPPI was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. For example they werent  affected  by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the MPPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover. Mrs M has 
also told us that she was working  less than 16 hours at the time they took out he policy  
but from what I can see the policy doesnt require  a minimum amount of hours worked to 
be eligible for the policy, and I cant see that this wouldve affected her ability  to make a 
claim either.
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs M about the MPPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for them  if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the MPPI would have  put them off taking out the cover. 
This means Bradford & Bingley doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the MPPI  to Mr 
and Mrs M.
But Bradford  & Bingley will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs M 
because: 
Bradford & Bingley  got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the MPPI  premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Bradford 
& Bingley didnt  tell Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN20806742To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think  that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said - but these points dont change my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
Bradford & Bingley  has to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium.  Bradford & Bingley should also pay back to 
Mr and Mrs M any extra interest  they paid because of that.
Bradford & Bingley  should pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra  they paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. 
Bradford & Bingley  should also pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest on each payment 
(15% on payments before  April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2080674