K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the premiums charged to them for their home insurance by 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc for a number of years up until the 2014 renewal.
background
Mr and Mrs M had had their insurance  with St Andrews for a number of years,  since  they 
took it out through their building  society/bank  with their mortgage. They tell us they assumed 
they were paying  a competitive price  for their policy. In 2008 Mrs M rang St Andrews to 
query the premium.  She was offered a discount,  which she accepted.  In 2014 Mr and Mrs M 
checked online and found that they could get a policy  with St Andrews for less than half the 
cost they had been quoted at renewal.  They decided to cancel their policy  and move  to 
another company. They felt theyd been  overcharged by St Andrews.
St Andrews  said that the premiums had been  charged correctly and that they did tell 
customers in the renewal documentation that there  may be other policies available which 
may suit their circumstances better.  It pointed out that the policy Mr and Mrs M had been 
quoted for online was only available  to customers of their bank from 2011. The new policy  
was also different from Mr and Mrs Ms policy and included an introductory  discount.
On review by this service  our adjudicator thought  that Mr and Mrs M had been treated fairly 
and hadnt been overcharged. He thought they were able to engage  with St Andrews about 
their premium. The policy from 2008 had an initial discount which had been recouped  over 
the years  until 2013. He thought the renewal documents could have been clearer  but overall 
didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Mr and Mrs M pointed  out that they are still being charged far less for their home insurance 
by their new supplier and felt that St Andrews had overcharged them  over the years  from at 
least 2001.
St Andrews  pointed out that though their renewal documents referred to alternative  policies,  
there was no obligation  then for it to talk through its other policies and in this case  no need 
to, as Mrs M accepted the discount.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In assessing whether  St Andrew's treated Mr and Mrs M fairly we look at several factors  
the price of the policy and whether the consumer has been treated fairly compared  to other 
customers of that insurer  in a similar  position. We also consider  whether the customer  is 
able to engage with the insurer  and whether they are in a position  to check  their premiums. 
And whether the insurer has done enough  to ensure its customers are able to engage with it. 
And if an insurer has an alternative policy we will consider whether it should have made the 
customer aware of it and whether that policy would  have  been appropriate for them.
First of all, the fact that Mr and Mrs M have been  able to obtain a cheaper policy elsewhere 
doesnt mean that St Andrews  has overcharged them. Competing insurers often charge very 
different prices for what is effectively very similar cover. Service  standards  of course differ  
Ref: DRN24939422between insurers and it is up to an insurer to decide  how much risk is attached to it providing 
cover and the price  it needs to charge for that. Thats  not something that this service  would 
generally comment on. 
Mr and Mrs M had their policy  with St Andrews for a number of years.  There  are records of 
premiums paid since 2001. Weve asked St Andrews for underwriting information but 
generally its only required to retain  such records going back six years.  From the information 
I have seen I am satisfied  that St Andrews has charged for the policy fairly and within  its 
own pricing criteria. So I dont think Mr and Mrs M were charged an unfair  amount for their 
policy.
Mrs M contacted St Andrews in 2008 because  she was unhappy with the premium. She was 
given a discount, which meant  the premium was lower  in 2008 and 2009 than was charged 
in 2007. The price increased after that, quite steeply in 2013 and 2014.  As Ive said 
Mr and Mrs M opted to insure  elsewhere  in 2014, after they checked  online and found 
cheaper policies.
I think Mr and Mrs M were  able to engage with St Andrews. I do, however, think  the renewal 
documents could  have  been clearer. According  to the renewal documents  from 2013 it said, 
on the one hand  We are continually reviewing and updating  our range of products. Some  of 
these may now be more suitable for you, even if your circumstances have not changed. To 
update us on any changes to your circumstances, or to discuss your options,  please call 
us... But, the same letter also stated,  Unless your needs and circumstances  have changed, 
there is no need for you to contact us  your insurance will automatically  renew 
So the document could  be interpreted as implying  that just a change  of circumstances would 
justify calling St Andrews.  I know regulations nowadays require insurers  to be more  precise  
about customers being able to shop  around. But that doesnt mean, if there was an 
alternative policy available, it would be fair not to make the customer aware of it, especially  if 
they rang up querying the renewal premium.  But Ive noted in this case that Mr and Mrs M 
were offered, and accepted, a discount  to their then current  policy.
Ive also considered the alternative policy, which would only have been available to 
Mr and Mrs M from 2011. The price for this online was about half of the renewal price 
Mr and Mrs M had been offered. But the policy available online would have had a 
considerable introductory discount And as Ive said, Mr and Mrs M had already had a new 
customer discount with their policy. That discount was recouped over the following years.  I 
dont think that its unfair  for an insurer to do this, as the initial policy  is often offered at below 
cost price. 
So I dont  think St Andrews treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly or that it overcharged  them for the 
policy they had.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 August 2019. 
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2493942