K821x#15complaint
Mrs M has complained about RAC Financial Services Ltds  administration when she 
contacted it about renewing her roadside  assistance policy.
background
Mrs M has been an RAC customer for a number of years. Shes  told us that she used  a 
supermarkets reward points scheme to help pay for her policy.  And in recent years shes  
paid using a combination of reward points and cash. In 2018 Mrs M paid around £50 on top 
of her reward points to pay for her premium. 
In 2019 Mrs M rang RAC to discuss renewing her policy. She said she didn't think she had 
enough reward points  to renew  that way. She wasn't happy with the offers RAC put to her 
and said that it had caused  her stress.  She brought her complaint about  that to us. Our 
adjudicator didn't think that RAC had dealt with Mrs M fairly. So, the adjudicator said RAC  
should pay Mrs M £50 compensation to address her distress and inconvenience. RAC  didn't 
agree so her complaints  been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it. 
It seems  that RAC offers discounts to its customers who choose  to pay for their policies in 
combination with the supermarket reward points  scheme. When  Mrs M contacted  RAC  in 
2019 she told the call handler that she didn't have enough rewards  points to renew using 
that method.  But it seems  that this message got lost when RACs staff were discussing  what 
it could do for her. Mrs M was put through to a second call handler  who said that while there 
were other benefits he could offer her - which Mrs M didn't wish to take - Mrs M would need 
to pay around £150 to renew her policy. The call handler said he couldn't  understand why 
Mrs Ms premium  the year before had been so cheap. 
So, it seems  that, at that point, from Mrs Ms perspective her policy  had almost trebled in 
cost. She'd paid around £50 the year before  but RAC was now asking  for around £150. But 
that wasn't the case. As I've said above  using the reward points  entitled  Mrs M to discounts 
that not all of RACs customers benefit  from. Also,  the reward points  themselves are in 
essence another form of payment for the policy. So, the fact that Mrs M had only handed 
over around £50 the year before didn't mean  that the policy  had only cost her £50. It just 
meant that the rest of her premium was being made up from her entitlement  because of the 
reward points. And, as Mrs M no longer had sufficient points, she no longer qualified  for the 
entitlements of that scheme and so it didn't apply to her. But I don't think  RAC went  far 
enough, early on to explain this to her.
Indeed, I've noted that in its response to Mrs Ms complaint RACs commented that it was 
disappointed that its call handler hadn't identified that Mrs M had been  paying for her policy 
with a contribution  from reward points. Its clear that Ms M already  knew  that she didn't 
qualify for the points  but I don't think RAC gave a clear explanation as to how that would 
affect the amounts shed paid before or what it was offering her to keep the policy  for 
another year. As a result, she had other conversations  with RAC staff and eventually a 
manager explained the position to her. Mrs Ms told us that if shed received a reasonable 
Ref: DRN25049332explanation from RAC  in an earlier  call, then her complaint  could have been  avoided.  And I 
think RAC could have done more  to prevent Mrs M being put to the trouble of complaining.  
So, I think its fair that it pays her £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced because of that.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require RAC Financial 
Services Ltd. to pay Mrs M £50 compensation to address her distress  and inconvenience.  It 
should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mrs M has accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If RAC pays  interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should  also give Mrs M a 
certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2504933