K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about how Markerstudy Insurance Company  Limited handled a claim made 
on his commercial motor insurance policy. He wants  it to pay his claim.
background
Several of Mr Gs cars were damaged in a fire and he made a claim.  Markerstudy  
investigated the claim and told Mr G that it would deal with one car at a time. It paid out for 
one car a year later. And it said other untaxed  cars werent covered by the policy  as they 
werent on the policy schedule or the Motor  Insurance Database (MID). Markerstudy offered 
Mr G £100 compensation  for not telling  him this when he notified his claim. But Mr G was 
unhappy with this and with the delay. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought 
Markerstudy had unfairly excluded one untaxed car from the claim as it wasnt  a requirement  
for it to be notified to MID and so it neednt be included on the policy schedule. She thought 
it should settle the claim under the remaining policy terms and conditions and reconsider any 
other cars excluded on this basis. She thought Markerstudy had caused delays in 
investigating the claim. So she thought it should  pay Mr G £100 compensation. 
Markerstudy replied that it wouldnt offer cover  for cars that were  registered to Mr G but not 
taxed or included on its schedule.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Markerstudy declined  Mr Gs claim for one car because it wasnt included on the policy  
schedule. Our approach  in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr Gs policy  certificate  says that it provides cover for any vehicle the property of or in the 
custody or control  of Mr G for motor trade purposes. The policy booklet refers to the 
schedule as a list of insured vehicles. But the schedule is for vehicles notified  to MID. 
I think this means that any vehicle  notified to MID needs to be on the schedule. But it doesnt  
say whats required for vehicles not notified to MID.  Ive seen  MID guidance for motor  
traders. This says that they arent required to notify  MID of untaxed  vehicles. So, following 
the policy wording,  untaxed vehicles wouldnt be included on the schedule.  
The car in question was untaxed and subject to SORN as it wasnt  used on the road. So I 
cant see that Markerstudy has justified not paying Mr Gs claim for this car under the policy 
terms and conditions. I also think it should  reconsider  his claims for other cars that its 
refused for the same reason.
Markerstudy also said Mr G hadnt  notified it of his claim for this particular car. But Ive seen 
that its included  in its investigators report as one that Mr G wanted to claim for. He attached 
a copy of its registration papers. So I dont think its fair for Markerstudy to decline or further 
delay the claim for this reason.  
Ref: DRN29572242Mr G also complained about delays in the claim. In the case  of fire damage, I think its fair 
and reasonable for Markerstudy to investigate the claim.  Obtaining  reports  from the agencies  
involved can take time. But I can see that there were delays in its handling of the claim. One 
of these was the three month  gap between receiving its investigators report  and requesting  a 
report from the attending fire service. 
The investigator recommended  that Markerstudy should offer Mr G £100  by way of an 
apology for these delays.  I think thats  fair and reasonable  as its in keeping  with what  Id 
require in similar circumstances. I think this should be offered in addition to the £100 that it 
has already offered Mr G for providing  incorrect information. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
1.Settle Mr Gs claim for the untaxed  car in question under the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
2.Reconsider Mr Gs claims for any other vehicles declined  for the same  reason and, if the 
claim isnt met, provide Mr G with a reason why.
3.Pay Mr G £100 compensation, in addition  to the £100 already offered, for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused by its delays  in dealing  with the claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2957224