K820x#14complaint
Mr U complains that National  Westminster  Bank  PLC (NatWest)  has defaulted his loan.
background
Mr U took out a loan with NatWest in August 2017. He set up a direct  debit to cover the 
payments, but they didnt go through successfully. NatWest says this was due to insufficient 
funds in his account.
In January 2018, Mr U asked NatWest to change his loan repayment date but it failed to do 
so. He complained  about this. NatWest agreed  to change the payment date; remove  any 
adverse information  from his credit file from 5 to 24 March 2018; refund £17.30 interest; and 
pay £30 compensation. Our service wasnt asked to review that complaint.
NatWest says it then received the loan payments due in April, August, September  and 
November 2018.  But no other payments were received.  NatWest  says it sent a formal  
demand notice in December 2018  and then applied a default in January 2019 as the 
arrears hadnt been cleared. 
Mr U complained again  about the default being  added. He said hed called NatWest to set 
up a repayment  plan in February 2018  and he hadnt received the formal demand.  NatWest 
maintained that the demand  had been  sent. It also said it had told Mr U to get back in touch 
about setting up a plan once the repayment-date issue was resolved  but he didnt do so.
Unhappy with this response,  Mr U referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She found that only four payments had been made towards the loan 
since its set-up in August  2017. And although  Mr U had discussed setting up a payment 
plan, hed failed  to call back  as instructed after the payment date had been  amended.  The 
investigator concluded it was fair for NatWest to report a default  relating to this account.
Mr U didnt agree, submitting he did all he could given that he received the banks final letter  
too late. Hes upset about the impact on his credit file  and hopes we might  liaise  with the 
bank to get it removed.  
The case  was escalated  to me for a review and decision. I found  that collections activity  had 
been put on hold for several  months in error. NatWest agreed to backdate the default date 
by five months to reflect when I considered  the default wouldve been applied  but for this 
delay. The investigator put this to Mr U along with my explanation of why I felt this was fair. 
But Mr U still thought  the default should be removed entirely. He maintained  he hadnt 
received the final demand, and NatWest shouldve emailed or called  him. So the case  has 
been passed back to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided it was fair 
for NatWest to apply  a default  but it shouldve done so five months earlier.  In other  words,  
Ive partially upheld the complaint. 
Im not persuaded the default should be removed  entirely. Between the account being  set up 
in August 2017 and the default being applied in January 2019, only four of the contractually-
Ref: DRN22116462due payments were  successfully made.  I appreciate Mr Us point that hed discussed setting 
up a payment plan,  and that there were issues with his payment date. But NatWest  has 
provided a call note from February  2018  which says: 
Advised [Mr U] to call back once the loan payment date has been updated to set up 
agreement
Theres also a call note from March 2018 which says Mr U called again  about setting up a 
payment plan  and was advised that the loan payment date would change  on 
24 March 2018.  Yet Mr U didnt get back in touch  about clearing his arrears  once  this had 
been done. Im satisfied  NatWest told Mr U what he needed  to do to set up a payment plan, 
and that the reason this wasnt  done  was because he didnt get back in touch. 
Mr U says he didnt receive the final demand. NatWests audit trail is persuasive  
documentary evidence  from the time that one was generated  and sent.  On balance, Im 
satisfied it was. Although  Mr U thinks NatWest shouldve also emailed or called, it wasnt 
required to do so under  the terms of the contract or any regulatory requirements. Mr U must 
bear some responsibility for maintaining his account.  He didnt get in touch to clear  his 
arrears, despite being advised to do so. And he continued to miss payments. On this basis,  
Ive concluded  it was fair for NatWest to treat the account as being in default.
That said,  Im conscious  it took a while  for NatWest to apply the default.  Wed generally 
expect one to be added  when three to six months  of arrears had built up. Beyond  that point, 
it seems likely the borrower cant make their contractual  payments. 
NatWest first contacted  Mr U about  his arrears in November 2017. It then put a hold on the 
account when  Mr U raised his initial complaint. But the hold remained in place after this had 
been addressed.  Thats  because a note on the account incorrectly  said the complaint was 
still ongoing. When this note was removed in December 2018, a formal demand notice was 
issued. This led to the default being applied in January 2019. 
Mr U made  his loan payment in April 2018,  but then missed three consecutive  payments 
between May and July 2018. Given the arrears  that had already built up, I wouldve expected  
NatWest to take action  at that point. But it didnt do so until December 2018  a delay of five 
months. 
Ive therefore  concluded  that the formal demand  shouldve been sent five months earlier. As 
Mr U didnt clear  his arrears once this was sent, I cant reasonably conclude he wouldve 
done so if the demand had been  sent earlier. Instead, I consider it more  likely that the default  
wouldve been added five months sooner. 
I know Mr U wants  the default  removed completely. Ive explained why I cant  fairly justify 
this. But bringing  the default date forward will reduce the amount of time it shows  up on his 
credit file. Overall, Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable way to resolve his complaint  as 
it reflects when good industry practice indicates  the default shouldve  been applied. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that National Westminster Bank PLC 
should backdate the default its applied to Mr Us credit file relating to his loan account to 
August 2018.
Ref: DRN22116463As Ive changed the outcome but not awarded Mr U everything he sought, I should  clarify 
that his accepting the decision  will make it legally binding on both parties  so he wouldnt 
then be able to take legal  action in relation to any issues covered in this case. On the other  
hand, if he rejects the decision, whilst  that wont affect his legal rights, it will mean that 
NatWest wouldnt be obliged to comply with my order  so it would then be purely a matter 
of goodwill  as to whether  it honours  its current agreement to amend the credit records  as set 
out above. Legally, an offer isnt binding until unconditional acceptance of it has been 
communicated by the offeree. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2211646