K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest)  failed  to apply a payment he 
made to his loan accounts, and wrongly treated  the accounts as in arrears. He says NatWest 
took action against him which involved offsetting the balance of his current and savings 
accounts against the loan and closing those accounts. Mr R complains that NatWest  failed to 
give him notice of the action they were  taking, and that they reported a default to credit 
reference agencies.
background 
Mr R had a current account  and a savings account with NatWest.  In March  2017 he took out 
a loan with them for £8,000 (Ill call this Loan  A). In December 2017 he took out a further 
loan for £4,000 (Ill call this Loan  B). He made  the repayments towards both loans from his 
current account.
In April 2018 he missed  a repayment  to Loan A but brought  the account up to date in May,  
before NatWest took any action. But on 4 June the repayment to Loan  A was missed. 
On 1 July the repayment to Loan  B was also missed.
On 24 July 2018 NatWests debt management  team called Mr R and asked  him when  hed 
be able to bring both loans  up to date. Mr R said he was unaware of any arrears but that he 
could clear them. It was agreed that Mr R would transfer some  money  into his current  
account and that NatWests agent  would then transfer what was required to each loan 
account. The agent told him that once the arrears were cleared, shed monitor his accounts 
for three clear repayments and then return  his account to mainstream  banking .
During this call Mr R explained that hed be interested in reducing his monthly outgoings. 
The agent  said shed  need to complete an affordability assessment and emailed  Mr R an 
income and expenditure form to start that process.
At the end of the call Mr R indicated hed like to raise a complaint about  the fact hed not 
been made aware of the arrears prior to 24 July 2018. An attempt to pass his call over to the 
complaints team resulted  in the call terminating;  no complaint was logged.
Mr R deposited £800 into his current account  on 25 July 2018. But NatWest didnt transfer 
this to the loan accounts and the arrears remained. Mr R made the monthly repayments 
towards both loans on time between August 2018 and January 2019. He didnt  return  the 
income and expenditure form, and there was no further conversation  with Mr R about  
affordability.
Because the arrears from June and July 2018 werent cleared, NatWest made several 
attempts to contact  Mr R by telephone  and text message in September 2018.  NatWest have 
provided a call recording of the message they left with a third party who answered Mr Rs 
phone on 13 September. NatWest also wrote  to Mr R on 17 September  asking  him to make 
contact about  his loans. Mr R says he received no messages or letters.
On 1 October 2018 two default  notices  were issued. NatWest sent a further letter  on this 
date saying they intended to close his current and savings accounts and use any credit 
balances towards  his loans.
Ref: DRN26420882As Mr R didnt  contact NatWest, a formal  demand for the outstanding loan amounts was sent 
on 5 November 2018. These letters  included  a reminder about the banks right of set-off.
On 5 March 2019 NatWest transferred  £859.35  from Mr Rs current  account to pay off Loan 
A. The remaining  balance  of the current account (£88.99) was applied to Loan  B and the 
accounts were closed. The outstanding balance on Loan B at that time was £3,183.85.
The following  day, Mr R found that he couldnt  use his NatWest debit card.  He checked his 
accounts online and discovered theyd been  closed.
Mr R raised a complaint  asking for his current  and savings  accounts to be re-opened  and the 
funds returned.  NatWest didnt issue a final response to Mr Rs complaint because  he 
referred his concerns to our service  on the same day.
Our investigator shared his initial thoughts with NatWest; he said Mr Rs account  wouldnt 
have been in arrears  if NatWests agent  had transferred  his current account  deposit to the 
loan accounts  on 25 July 2018 as shed said shed do. So, it was the banks error that had 
led to this position.
NatWest agreed thered  been an error but said their decision to take recovery action was still 
correct. They said Mr R would still have ended up in the same position, defaulting and with 
his accounts closed, because he missed the repayments on both loans in February 2019  
demonstrating that he was still failing to adhere  to his loan agreement  and contractual 
repayments. NatWest said that as Mr R hadnt engaged with them about the June/July 2018  
arrears, its unlikely hed have engaged with them about the February 2019 arrears.
Mr R said he wouldnt have ended up with his accounts closed  because  he had the means to 
settle his loans (funds from regular employment paid to a bank account  not held with 
NatWest). He explained he had no idea the money  hed deposited on 25 July 2018 hadnt 
cleared his arrears  because none  of the letters hed received from NatWest related  to 
missed payments or the possibility of account closure.
Our investigators view
Our investigator issued  several assessments which considered the responses he received 
from both parties.
He noted that Mr R had deposited over £2,500 into his current  account on 28 February 2019, 
so he wasnt persuaded by NatWests suggestion that the missed  payments in February 
2019 wouldve  resulted in recovery  action.  He said it was principally NatWests  error that had 
led to the recovery  action. So, he said NatWest should: re-open the Loan B account waiving 
the interest accumulated whilst the account was with collections; remove any adverse 
information recorded with credit reference  agencies about the loan accounts; and pay Mr R 
£300 for the trouble and upset caused  by the negative impact on his credit score.
NatWest said that if Mr R could clear the Loan  B arrears it would: re-open the Loan B 
account; refund the arrears interest (not the contractual interest that would have 
accumulated if the account had remained open and Mr R had continued to meet his re-
payments); remove the default in respect  of the loan from Mr Rs credit file; and credit £300 
compensation for trouble  and upset to the loan account to assist in repaying  the outstanding 
debt. They  said this offer was dependent  on Mr R first clearing the arrears  on the account, 
Ref: DRN26420883and if he couldnt  do that an arrangement would need to be agreed based  on affordability.  
Any such  arrangement would then be reported as such on his credit file.
Mr R broadly accepted  NatWests offer.  He said he was, not adverse (sic) to making  a 
single large payment to clear the arrears but said if he had to enter a repayment  
arrangement, he didnt want a third-party  debt collector involved. He also said he wanted  
NatWest to return all that was taken from his current  and savings accounts.
He added that a reported default in relation to his credit card account  (also with NatWest) 
was a direct  consequence of what happened with his loan, current  and savings accounts 
and should be reflected  in the outcome.
Our investigator explained that Mr Rs complaint relating to his credit  card would be dealt  
with separately.  He also clarified what had happened to the balances  of Mr Rs current  and 
savings account  before they were closed  and explained that NatWest wouldnt be able to 
guarantee that any future debt wouldnt be passed  to a third party.
Mr R said he was inclined to accept NatWests  offer but didnt want  to do so until he knew  
the outcome of his separate complaint against  NatWest about his credit  card account.
Because Mr R didnt agree with the outcome of that complaint  both complaints have been  
passed to me for decision.  Ill issue my findings in relation to what happened  with Mr Rs 
NatWest credit card separately.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Im upholding Mr Rs 
complaint.
NatWest pursued recovery action and closed Mr Rs current  and savings accounts based on 
one months arrears on Loan  A and one months  arrears on Loan B. But those arrears could 
have been resolved in full if NatWest had taken Mr Rs payment and applied it to his loan 
accounts in July 2018 as they said they would. So, I find the recovery  action could have 
been avoided.  The arrears would have been  cleared, and after three clear repayments 
Mr Rs loan accounts would have been moved  out of the debt management team.
And even  in the circumstances  as they were, created by NatWests  error, I think the recovery 
action was premature.  When the accounts were  closed, neither loan account had a level of 
arrears that warranted  such action.
Although I appreciate that NatWest were  finding Mr R unresponsive to their communication 
attempts, his current account was still receiving enough funds to meet the loan repayments 
from August 2018 to January 2019. This was a clear indication  he wasnt ignoring his re-
payment obligations on Loan  A or Loan  B. With that in mind, I think NatWest  should have 
made more  effort  to phone or email him before closing his current  and savings accounts.
I also think its unfair of NatWest to admit  their mistake and yet argue that the recovery  
action was justifiable because Mr R might  have defaulted again  in the future  beyond  
February 2019. Between October 2018  and January  2019  when  the default notices and 
related letters were sent to Mr R, his accounts  were  only in arrears because of NatWests 
Ref: DRN26420884error, and so they shouldnt have been sent.  It follows that no recovery action should have 
been taken and his current and savings  accounts shouldnt have closed on 5 March 2019.
Following our investigators assessment of the situation NatWest have made an offer to put 
things right. If Mr R is in a position to clear the arrears on the account NatWest  have agreed 
to:
re-open the Loan B account;
waive/refund the arrears interest;
remove the default in respect  of the loan from Mr Rs credit  file; and
credit  £300 compensation for trouble  and upset to the loan account to assist  in 
repaying the outstanding debt.
If Mr R isnt able to clear the arrears  NatWest have said theyll agree a re-payment plan 
based on affordability, but that any such arrangement will be reported on his credit file. (I 
note that Mr R has recently confirmed to us that hes able to clear the arrears and resume 
repayments to Loan  B).
Overall, I think this is a fair and reasonable way of resolving whats happened here. Mr R 
remains obligated to repay the principle sum he borrowed plus the contractual interest that 
would have accrued even  if hed made  all his repayments on time. Hes not being asked to 
pay any arrears  interest and so owes no more  than he would have done if the account had 
remained open in March 2019  and hed continued to make  the repayments  as they became 
due.
For the trouble  and upset caused by what happened NatWest are paying £300 
compensation which will reduce the balance of Loan B. I think this is a fair amount. I realise 
Mr R says hes been caused great difficulty  through the reduction  of his credit  rating,  but 
from what Ive seen  I cant say what happened  in relation to these personal loans is wholly 
responsible for Mr Rs credit rating.
Ref: DRN26420885my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint. I direct  National Westminster Bank Plc to:
re-open the Loan B account;
waive/refund the arrears interest  that accrued on both loan accounts  after 25 July 
2018 calculating  the contractual interest  as if payments had continued; and
remove any adverse information  reported  to Mr Rs credit file in respect  of either  
Loan A or Loan  B since 25 July 2018  (excluding any factual information  that might  
have been recorded  about  the missed repayments in February 2019).
The above  arrangement assumes that Mr R will, as hes told us he can, clear the arrears on 
the account. If Mr R does not, however,  clear  the arrears on the account and bring the 
account up to date, Id expect  NatWest to agree with Mr R an affordable  re-payment plan as 
theyve indicated they will.
NatWest should  also pay Mr R £300  compensation for trouble and upset (this can be 
credited to the Loan B account to assist in repaying the outstanding debt).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2021.
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2642088