K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Black Horse Limited unfairly  recorded negative information on his credit  
file. 
background
Mr K was supplied a car under  a hire purchase agreement  with Black Horse  in November 
2015. He says that Black Horse told him in January 2018 that he didnt need to maintain his 
monthly repayments, whilst it looked  into his concerns  about  the quality of the car. But this 
didnt stop Black Horse  from reporting  adverse information on his credit file. He wants  Black  
Horse to remove all information relating to the arrears from his credit file.
Mr K complained to Black Horse about  the information it was recording about the arrears on 
his credit file. In its final response in September 2018 Black  Horse didnt uphold his 
complaint. It said Mr K was required under his agreement to maintain his repayments  and 
the information it had recorded on his credit file was accurate. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ks complaint. He didnt think Black Horse  had done 
anything wrong, he didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Mr K disagreed; he asked  for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
This decision only relates to Mr Ks complaint about what  Black  Horse has recorded on his 
credit file. I have already  addressed that this service  doesnt have the power  to look into his 
concerns about  the quality of the car, in a separate decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  the 
complaint and Ill explain why below;
Mr Ks account history shows that he hasnt made  any repayments  towards  his agreement 
since October 2017. Mr K says that in January  2018 Black Horse  told him that he didnt need 
to maintain his monthly repayments, whilst it looked into his complaint about the quality of 
the car. Mr K is unhappy that Black Horse subsequently chased him for payment and has 
recorded negative  information on his credit  file. 
Ive listened to the call recording provided by Black Horse from 15 January 2018. During the 
call Mr K says he will not be making  any more repayments due to the ongoing issues  with 
his car, on more than one occasion the adviser tells Mr K that he is required to continue to 
make his monthly repayments  in line with his agreement. So Im satisfied that the adviser  
didnt tell Mr K that he didnt need  to continue  making his repayments.
In addition Black Horse sent Mr K an arrears letter on 18 October 2017, a complaints 
acknowledgement letter on 22 November 2017, a default notice on 13 February  2018  and 
another arrears  letter on 4 April 2018.  These  letters confirmed that Mr K was required to 
maintain his monthly repayments in line with his agreement  and explained that failure to do 
so would affect his credit  file. So I think Black Horse did enough to make  Mr K aware  that he 
needed to make his repayments. 
Ref: DRN24902892In line with Mr Ks agreement Black Horse  is required to update  credit  reference agencies 
about his account. As Mr K hasnt been making  payments in line with his agreement, Black 
Horse has recorded  the missed payments  and a default on his credit file. From what  Ive 
seen Black Horse hasnt recorded  anything inaccurate on Mr Ks credit file, so I dont think  
Black Horse  made  a mistake in recording information about the arrears on Mr Ks credit  file 
and I have no grounds to ask it to remove the negative information  recorded. 
I appreciate that Mr K will be disappointed  with my decision and I sympathise with his 
situation, but I cant fairly say that Black  Horse shouldnt record information  about the arrears 
on his credit file. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2490289