K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains, through his Independent Financial Adviser (the IFA) that Octopus 
Investments Limited:
Didnt action his request for full withdrawal from the Enterprise Investment Scheme 
(EIS) he had invested in.
Didnt carry out proper  due diligence with regards to the investment.
Didnt communicate with him about  what was happening with his investment between 
November 2015 and September 2018.
background
Mr M invested in the Octopus EIS 3 in 2007. It wrote to the IFA on 8 July 2011 to inform  him 
that some  of the companies in the scheme had completed the three-year minimum qualifying  
period with the remainder to complete by early  November 2011. It set out the three options 
Mr M had, which were  to; retain the investment; request a transfer into a new tranche of 
Octopus EIS; request  an exit from the fund.
Mr M intended to switch to a new EIS, but this didnt come about so he decided to remain 
invested. He was notified that there would be annual withdrawals  opportunities from the 
scheme. Octopus consolidated the investment so that it was concentrated in just one 
unquoted company, Ticketus 5 (Ticketus)  instead  of several unquoted companies. 
Mr M decided to take advantage of the annual liquidity  event  he was notified  of in October 
2012 and withdraw from the scheme.  He was told this would be done  by February 2013. But 
in January 2013 Octopus wrote to him to inform  him that it could not surrender the whole  
investment as part of the Ticketus investment involved  purchasing  tickets  from Rangers 
Football Club (RFC) which had gone  into administration,  and then into liquidation in late 
2012. He received a partial payment of £67,805 from his investment with £14,275 being 
retained in relation to the part of the investment by Ticketus in RFC. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint a copy  of which is attached  and forms part of 
this final decision.  I didnt uphold the complaint.  In summary I made the following findings:
The responsibility for ensuring that the investment was suitable for Mr M was the 
IFAs, not Octopuss.
The use of the word protected  in reference  to the EIS didnt mean  there was capital 
protection and Mr M accepted he was aware the scheme was higher risk.
I wasnt satisfied that the use of the word protected was misleading  or did mislead 
Mr M as to the risks of the scheme.
By consolidating  investment in just one company Octopus was in breach of the 
Brochure and terms and conditions, which referred  to investing in at least  four 
companies.
Consolidation may have led to a reduction  in administration costs  but there was 
nothing in the documents which indicated Octopus could invest  in less than four 
companies.
But consolidation didnt increase the risk of the investment because  the companies  
invested in the same assets.
I wasnt satisfied that Mr M wouldve chosen not to invest  if he had been aware of the 
consolidation and the reason for this.
Ref: DRN27328632Ticketus didnt loan money to the prospective  new owner of RFC as the IFA has 
stated more than once, the money  it paid was for purchase of future tickets.
Octopuss due diligence wasnt limited to a personal guarantee from the prospective 
new owner. It included; guarantees from two companies involved in the purchase; a 
questionnaire; reviewing business  plans  with future senior management; reviewing 
full accounts,  asset values  and squad  value.
The potential tax liability was a risk, but I dont think  this made the investment 
inappropriate.
Octopus was not able to action Mr Ms request for full withdrawal given RFC had 
gone into administration in early 2012 and was placed in liquidation in October 2012.
The IFA was wrongly told in January 2013 that the investment was due to pay out full 
withdrawals in February 2013 but there is nothing to show  this caused  Mr M any loss.
I wasnt persuaded that Octopus hadnt  kept Mr M informed  of what was happening.
I gave both parties the opportunity of providing  further information before making my final 
decision. The IFA didnt  agree with my provisional decision. In summary it said the following 
on behalf of Mr M.
It wasnt RFC that approached Ticketus, but the prospective new owner of the club 
through his limited  company Wavetower.
The point  it was making is how could Ticketus loan money to someone  for future 
ticket sales on a club that person didnt own at the time?
Ticketus paid £24 million to the prospective new owners solicitors  a month before 
the purchase was completed.
How could Ticketus release £24.4 million to the lawyers before the sale of the club 
had been agreed?
It appreciates that Octopus didnt just rely on a personal guarantee, but the 
questionnaire appears  to be a self-certification document,  and Octopus hasnt 
explained what other measures it took to validate his credentials.
It couldve carried out a basic Companies  House search which wouldve shown the 
prospective new owner had no record of being a company  director in the previous 
seven years, let along experience of running  a football club.
When the new owner didnt make  the first payment to Ticketus, Octopus went  on to 
lend further money on future ticket sales.
In court  a judge said that Ticketus had no claim  against the assets  of RFC, so it was 
ruled it was investing in the new owner  not the club.
It would  like to understand what the ombudsman feels  is an appropriate level of due 
diligence and what evidence  has Octopus  provided to allow the conclusion  it carried 
out sufficient due diligence?
Octopus wasnt qualified to decide  whether it was likely the potential tax liability to 
HMRC was payable.
It is reasonable to assume Octopus wouldve understood the severity of the situation 
with HMRC and the risk that RFC could go into liquidation.
If full withdrawal wasnt possible  why did Octopus  state  in its email of 14 January 
2013 that full payment would be made at the end of February 2013.
Octopus has a duty to provide clear information  and using the word protected  was 
misleading and we are surprised that the ombudsman  and the FCA arent concerned 
with the use of the word in reference  to this high-risk product.
It doesnt agree with Octopuss reasons for changing to investment in only one 
company instead of the minimum of four required.
Ref: DRN27328633It doesnt agree that this didnt change  the risk and the investment in Ticketus 
companies should be considered as the same investment anyway.
Investing just in Ticketus meant  that the investment changed from a portfolio EIS to a 
single company EIS, which absolutely wouldve changed the risk profile.
It believes that Octopus was aware  of the difficulties Ticketus  was facing when  the 
original exit was facilitated for investors.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the points  made by the IFA in response to my provisional decision and 
note the questions he has raised about the ticket  purchase agreement. But I am not required 
to address every point  in my findings, and it is not my role to provide answers to all the 
questions he has put. 
My role is to consider the complaint that Mr M has made and decide if Octopus has done  
anything wrong, with my findings being made on a balance of probabilities  what is more 
likely than not  based on the available evidence. The IFA has provided no new evidence 
that would  lead me to change the findings  in my provisional decision.
Regardless of when Ticketus paid the money  for future season  tickets and to whom Im 
satisfied on the information I have seen  that it is more likely than not it had an agreement  
with RFC for future season  tickets.  
The IFA has referred to a judge saying Ticketus had no claim on the assets of RFC and that 
this means it was ruled that its agreement was with the new owner. The judge  in an 
application by the administrators for RFC  did say that Ticketus  only had a personal  right 
(rather than a security right, trust interest  or property right)  to performance of the contract by 
RFC. This shows that the judge  accepted  there was an agreement  between Ticketus and 
RFS, not that he thought the agreement  was with the new owner.  
I note the IFA has said it wants to understand what I think  is an appropriate level of due 
diligence. But what I need to do is consider whether  the due diligence  carried  out by Octopus 
was reasonable  or not, rather than specify some notional level  of due diligence. I dont think  
the due diligence carried out by Octopus, as set out in my provisional decision,  was 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
The IFA has again said that the word  protected in the brochure was misleading and he is 
surprised I am not concerned about  the use of the word in relation to this this high-risk 
product. But It isnt enough to simply refer to the word protected and say it is misleading  
when the brochure didnt  provide any information  about any such  protection.
The suggestion that this was misleading is also inconsistent with Mr Ms own evidence  that 
he understood the investment was higher  risk and he might not get back the same value as 
he put in. The IFA also made no mention of the investment having protection in the suitability 
letter he sent to Mr M.
The IFA has again argued that changing from several unquoted companies to one company 
increased the risk of the investment. But given these were  unquoted companies that all 
invested in the same assets Im not satisfied that this did increase  the overall risk of the 
Ref: DRN27328634portfolio in any significant way. I note the IFA has referred to this increasing the 
concentration risk, but this would only really  be the case if the companies had invested  in 
different assets,  but they didnt.
Even if using one company did increase the risk, Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldnt have 
gone ahead  with the investment if he had known this beforehand, given he didnt take issue 
with this when  he was made aware of the change. At the latest  I think  this was January 2012 
when portfolio valuations were  sent to both Mr M and the IFA which  clearly  showed that Mr 
Ms portfolio  was only invested in Ticketus 5. And Mr M and the IFA continued to get six 
monthly valuations  and didnt raise  any issue about  this.
I note the IFAs belief that Octopus knew of the issues Ticketus faced, when it facilitated the 
original exit from the investment. But I have seen no persuasive evidence  that Octopus was 
aware of information  which meant it was aware  there were  issues with the investment that 
might affect later withdrawals.  
In summary  I am not satisfied on the evidence provided that Octopus did anything  wrong  in 
its management of Mr Ms portfolio. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above  and in my provisional 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27328635COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M complains, through his Independent Financial Adviser  (the IFA) that Octopus Investments  
Limited:
Didnt action his request for full withdrawal from the Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS)  he 
had invested in.
Didnt carry out proper due diligence with regards to the investment.
Didnt communicate with him about  what was happening with his investment  between 
November 2015 and September  2018.
background
Mr M invested in the Octopus EIS 3 in 2007.  It wrote to the IFA on 8 July 2011 to inform him that 
some of the companies in the scheme had completed the three-year minimum qualifying period, with 
the remainder to complete  by early November 2011. It set out the three options Mr M had, which were 
to; retain the investment in the current EIS; request a transfer into a new tranche of Octopus  EIS; 
request an exit from the fund.
Mr M intended to switch  to a new EIS but this didnt come about  so he decided  to remain  invested in 
EIS 3. He was notified that there would be annual withdrawals opportunities from the scheme. The 
scheme was consolidated by Octopus  from investment  through several companies to investment 
through just one Octopus  company, Ticketus 5 (Ticketus).
Mr M then decided  to take advantage of the annual  liquidity event he was notified of in October  2012 
and withdraw  from the scheme. He was told this would be done by February 2013.  But in January  
2013 Octopus wrote to him to inform him that it could  not surrender the whole investment as part of 
the Ticketus investment involved purchasing  tickets  from Rangers Football Club (RFC) which had 
gone into administration  and then into liquidation in late 2012. He received  a partial payment of 
£67,805 from his investment in EIS 3 with £14,275 being retained in relation to the part of the 
investment in RFC.
Octopus didnt  uphold the complaint. It said that all EIS investments are high risk, and that this is what  
it wouldve expected  the IFA to have told Mr M when advising him about investing in the EIS. It said 
the brochure it provided  for investors  prominently  outlined the risks.  It said that as the discretionary 
investment manager it was able to offer a range of products that targeted different objectives and its 
role was to convey accurate  information  about  these  which it did for the EIS Mr M invested in. It said it 
was reasonable to conclude that Mr M was prepared to accept a higher risk to capital when he 
invested in 2007.
Octopus explained it didnt invest in RFC but into Ticketus companies held in the portfolio and that it 
chose to use the companies  capital  through LLP structures, which approach had been agreed with 
HMRC. It said that there were therefore groups of companies trading in ticketing-based activities who 
could contribute capital to a partnership that conducted the deals. Octopus said that following 
investment the Ticketus  companies entered into multiple  successful arrangements with event 
providers. It said the investment in 2011  with regard to RFC followed  two previous transactions  
involving RFC which had provided expected returns.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  but didnt think  it should be upheld.  She said that 
Octopus confirmed in January 2013 that a full withdrawal wouldnt be possible. She said it did what it 
could to allow  Mr M to withdraw  as much as possible from his investment but that there was a shortfall  
which is tied up in legal proceedings. She said that even if Octopus had told investors earlier in 2012 
about issues with regard to RFC there wasnt an opportunity for investors to withdraw their money 
sooner. 
Ref: DRN27328636The investigator also didnt  think Octopus had failed  to carry out appropriate due diligence and said 
she was satisfied it hadnt  just relied on personal  guarantees from the club owner and the risks of the 
investment were clearly set out in the fund brochure. She said that the decision to consolidate the 
investment in one company  was a restructuring decision which we wouldnt comment on.
The investigator also said that Octopus had kept Mr M updated with what  was happening with six
monthly statements  and meetings with his adviser  in 2016 and 2017 and she didnt think  any more  
was required given the situation hadnt really  changed.
The IFA didnt agree  with the investigator. In short, he made the following points:
Octopus marketed the EIS as investing in a portfolio  of companies which  would suggest that it 
was not a concentrated risk. But when it came  to re-investing it didnt  make Mr M aware it was 
going to consolidate the investments into one company  Ticketus  5  substantially  increasing 
the level of risk he was exposed to.
Due diligence was not carried out on the new owner  of RFC as he cant see where his 
credible history came  from, given  he was disqualified from being a Director for seven years in 
2000.
Octopus loaned  the new owner  £24.4 million personally against RFC future season ticket 
sales when at the time of the loan the sale of RFC had not been completed.  This personal 
loan elevated  the risk that Mr M was exposed to.
The new owner only set up the company Wavetower in September 2010 and it was 
connected to Prichard Stockbrokers and Liberty  Capital amongst  many others.
If the new owner was able to offer a personal guarantee why was he unable  to satisfy RFC he 
could complete  the purchase without the loan.
RFC entered a dispute with HMRC in 2009 about  a possible £49 million tax bill.
Regardless of previous  good ticket  sales,  as RFC was already in serious  financial trouble, 
loaning so much  as against future  ticket sales over such  a long period was foolhardy.
Why was it requested that the deal be kept quiet?
Regardless of whether  it wouldve  made a difference, ongoing updates and information 
shouldve been provided to Mr M.
It is denied that he had two face to face meetings with Octopus.
Mr M was given mixed messages as to his investment risk and no clear  explanation of the 
structure he was invested in.
Mr M was told to expect the full amount due to him but the time for payment  has come and 
gone several  times  and he has still not received this.
In essence he is asking that we dont look at Mr Ms complaint as an EIS complaint as such  
but as a complaint against the activities of Octopus and Ticketus  in regard to the relationship 
between them and the new owner  and how he passed their due diligence to personally 
borrow the amount he did.
The investigator asked for Octopuss comments on the points raised by the IFA and, in summary  it 
made the following  points:
The IFA is incorrect and misleading in what he has said about the level of risk increasing  
because investments were consolidated into Ticketus 5. The EIS always carried a 
concentration risk as diversification isnt a characteristic  of the investment. The companies  
were all co-parties on the same deals  and contributed to the overarching partnership  
conducting the deals  and were consolidated after three years which  reduced administrative 
costs and wasnt possible within  three years as this wouldve made them non-EIS qualifying.
They  carried out due diligence through a Directors questionnaire that the new owner  of RFC 
responded to and to which he answered  no to the question  about  being  disqualified as a 
Director and answered other questions falsely as well. Ticketus only became aware he had 
been previously  disqualified in an article in Private Eye which referred to him hiding  this also 
from football and City regulators. This was after RFC went into liquidation.
Ref: DRN27328637Ticketus didnt loan the new owner  £24.4 million  personally,  it bought future tickets in RFC 
and obtained guarantees.
Guarantees were obtained from Liberty Capital, Wavetower (now Rangers FC Group Limited)  
and the new owner personally. It also obtained a net worth  statement from the new owner 
showing net assets above the amount of the Ticketus investment.
It isnt unusual for a person to use third party finance even  if they have sufficient funds  to 
finance a transaction.
It couldnt  be foreseen that the new owner was in breach of his directorial  obligations and 
deliberately misled multiple parties including  Ticketus, other creditors, the Scottish FA and 
City regulators. 
At the time of the Ticketus transaction the risk of a substantial tax bill was a potential  concern 
but wasnt  considered  likely, and the various  guarantees provided  additional  comfort.
It has provided regular summary updates to investors  and no communication would be made  
about legal recoveries until these were concluded. It has had several meetings  with 
consumer representatives and would  expect them to relay  what  was said to their clients.
There were  meetings  with the IFA as it has previously stated and it is surprised  this has been 
denied by the IFA.
It was the IFAs responsibility  to ensure Mr M was aware of the risks of the EIS and what he 
was investing in. 
The misrepresentations of the new owner  have nothing to do with the risk profiles of this EIS 
or any EIS, or with the structure of discretionary  managed  investment service.  
The complaint should be considered as a complaint about the EIS and not anything  else.
As agreement  hasnt  been  reached the matter has been referred to me for review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I have set out the main points made by the IFA in response  to the investigators opinion, but I am not 
going to comment on every point as I dont think they are all relevant  to the issues in this complaint. 
Octopus was not responsible  for making  sure that its Protected EIS was suitable for Mr M - that was 
the responsibility of the IFA who advised him about investing in the scheme. So, it was for the IFA to 
be satisfied  that the EIS was in accordance with Mr Ms objectives and his risk appetite.
Mr M has said that marketing  the scheme as the Octopus Protected EIS was misleading. My 
understanding of the use of the word Protected in the context of the EIS is that this refers to the 
scheme investing in companies that targeted capital  protection rather than capital  growth. That does 
not mean that Mr Ms capital was protected in some way, as I think  both he and the IFA will have 
known.
He has confirmed that he understood from the outset that an EIS is a higher risk investment type, so I 
think he was aware his capital  was at risk and there was no protection, and there was nothing in the 
brochure that suggested such protection existed.
I note that the brochure  does refer to the scheme as lower risk but I think it is reasonably  clear  that 
this is by reference  to typical EIS schemes and doesnt indicate that the scheme  was low risk in 
comparison to other types of investment  and, as I have said,  Mr M has acknowledged he was aware 
the scheme was a higher  risk type of investment  in any event.
. 
Also, the Introductory page of the brochure identified  two advantages  of its scheme, the first headed 
Tax benefits and the second headed Lower Risk  and under this second heading it states:
The Fund will be investing  in UK smaller companies, a core area of expertise  at Octopus. The 
companies will be known to the team  at Octopus and will operate in sectors where  there is a high 
Ref: DRN27328638degree of predictability.  These  companies  are expected to have contractual revenues from financially 
sound customers and will provide investors with an ability to cash in their investment as soon  as 
possible after three  years  (the minimum  holding  period required to retain  the initial  income tax relief).
I think  this made it reasonably clear the basis on which Octopus was using the words lower  risk and 
that it was not stating  the EIS was a low risk investment.
The Brochure also explained  the risks of the investment  and included the following:
Investments made by the Octopus Protected  EIS, because they are in unquoted  companies are likely 
to be higher risk than securities  listed on the London Stock Exchange Official  List.
Investments in shares in unquoted  companies  are not readily marketable  and the timing  of any 
realisation cannot be predicted.
In the circumstances,  for the reasons I have set out, Im not persuaded  that the brochure was 
misleading because it used the word  Protected in reference to the EIS or that Mr M was misled by 
the use of that word.
The IFA has suggested that because the brochure  stated that investment would  be into a portfolio  of 
companies that this indicated  it was not a concentrated risk and that on reinvestment by Mr M it didnt 
make him aware the investment would  be concentrated just in one company.
Octopus was the discretionary manager of EIS 3 so could make decisions as to what the scheme 
invested in as long as this was in accordance with the objective/s of the scheme. The objective  of the 
scheme was clearly tax relief, as the Brochure made very clear.  By investing in companies that were 
EIS qualifying Octopus invested in accordance  with the objective.
But the Brochure states, under the heading Investment Strategy, that:
The fund will invest  in at least  four EIS qualifying companies with a view to minimising risk to capital. 
The investments will be into companies  known to the team at Octopus.
I also note that the terms and conditions of the scheme  included the following:
6.3 We will acquire for your Fund investments which we reasonably believe to be Qualifying 
investments at the time of acquisition..Subject thereto, there shall be no restriction on the 
amount invested in any one investment or on the proportion of your Fund in any one investment or 
any particular type of investment or on the markets  on which transactions are effected unless  
specified in the Brochure , save only that no more  than 50% of the Fund will be invested  in any one 
company and the Fund will invest in at least four companies. 
So, by investing wholly in one company  Octopus  appears to be in breach of both the Brochure and 
the terms and conditions of the scheme. I acknowledge the explanation Octopus  has given about  the 
companies investing  in the same assets - so that consolidating in one company  didnt increase  the 
risks of the EIS scheme. I also accept that there may have been financial benefits, by way of reduced 
administration costs. But there is nothing in the Brochure or the terms and conditions  which indicated  
that it would, or could,  invest in less than four companies.
Having said that I must consider what the consequences of it doing  this were. I accept  that this didnt 
change the risk of the EIS scheme  in any meaningful way given the companies invested in the same 
assets. I also dont think that Mr M wouldve chosen to withdraw his money from the scheme in 2011 
instead of deciding to continue with it if he had been told the investment would be consolidated in one 
company. There is nothing  to suggest he was unhappy  with the scheme in 2011 when he was 
deciding what he wanted  to do. So, I think it is more  likely than not that if he had been told of the 
consolidation and the reasons for this, he would  still have decided to leave his money in the scheme.
Ref: DRN27328639I turn to what I consider the main  issue  in this complaint which I think  is whether  or not Octopus 
carried out sufficient due diligence in relation to Ticketus purchasing future  tickets in RFC.  I think  it is 
reasonable to expect  a discretionary fund manager  to carry out appropriate due diligence  on the 
investments they are making under the mandate that has been given and a failure to carry  out 
reasonable due diligence will be a breach  of their obligations to the client under  the mandate. 
I think  it is important to be clear about what Ticketus actually did, because  the IFA has, on more than 
one occasion, referred to the investment being a loan to the prospective new owner of RFC that 
allowed him to proceed with his purchase of the club. From my own research it appears that the 
money was used by the new owner in relation to his purchase of the club. But I think it is clear  that 
Ticketus didnt loan money to him and that the agreement it had was for the purchase of future tickets. 
Mr M has said that he was staggered when  he became aware that such a significant investment  was 
made by Octopus based on a personal guarantee from the new owner. But the personal guarantee 
was only one part of the steps that Octopus took in relation to the investment.
Before Octopuss Investment Committee approved  the investment by Ticketus  the new owner had to 
provide answers to a questionnaire it provided  to him which  asked various questions. These included 
whether he had previously  been disqualified  as a Director of a company and whether he had ever 
been accused  of fraud or other misconduct in relation  to a company or other business. 
The new owner answered  no to both questions. This was untrue as he had been the subject of 
proceedings for misfeasance in relation to a company he was involved with and had been  disqualified 
as a Director in 2000  for a period of seven years. I dont think  this information  was publicly available, 
so was not something that Octopus couldve found out other than by asking the new owner  questions.
As well as the questionnaire the new owner was asked to provide  a net asset statement which he did. 
This showed he had enough assets to cover the investment made by Octopus  through  Ticketus and 
the subsequent personal guarantee  he was asked to provide for that investment.
As well as the personal guarantee  from the new owner Octopus  also obtained  a guarantee from 
Wavetower, the company  that the new owner set up to purchase RFC, as well as Liberty Capital, 
another overseas  company  of the new owner  that was involved in the purchase of the club.  I accept 
these companies were  linked to the new owner, but Octopus had no reason  at the time to question  
the ability  of those companies to make good on the guarantees that had been given.
Octopus also referred in its FRL to other steps it took,  including; reviewing business plans  with future  
senior management;  reviewing  full accounts,  forecasts,  asset values  and squad value - with the 
annual pre-tax profit before the deal being  £4.2 million; the investment committee reviewing the 
proposal over eight months.
It is possible that further due diligence might have turned something up that couldve indicated 
something was wrong and the investment shouldnt go ahead.  But what I am considering  is whether 
Octopus carried out sufficient due diligence,  and Im not satisfied that the overall steps it took fell short 
of what  could  reasonably be expected.
I think  it is important to remember that Ticketus was not investing in the new owner but in future  
tickets for RFC. It had no reason to think this would not be successful given it had previously  
successfully invested  in that way  albeit  in smaller amounts.  It had no reason to think  that RFC would  
go into liquidation with investors being unable  to withdraw  their money  from the investment.
I have considered the fact that RFC also had a potential tax liability to HMRC which  had come to light 
in 2009. Octopus  has said it wasnt  considered  likely this would be payable  and I note that RFC won 
the initial  tax tribunal  case  and subsequent appeal - although it lost the final case before the Supreme 
Court in 2017. Octopus  also points to the guarantees it had which gave it further comfort. In the 
circumstances, although the tax liability  was a potential  risk, I dont think  this meant the investment 
was inappropriate or fell outside of Octopus discretionary  management remit.
Ref: DRN273286310Mr M complained that Octopus didnt action his request for full withdrawal. But I am satisfied that it 
was never in a position  to do this when he first requested  this, or subsequently,  given RFC had gone 
into administration in early 2012 and was placed into liquidation on 31 October  2012.  I acknowledge  
that when the IFA chased  up the withdrawal  in January 2013, he was told that it was on track  to pay 
out full withdrawals at the end of February. Given RFC was in liquidation at this point this information 
was wrong but there is nothing to indicate  this caused  Mr M any loss or any other harm.
Mr M has also complained he has not been kept informed of what  Octopus is doing with regard  to 
recovering the money he invested and has heard nothing since 2015.  He says he and his IFA have 
chased for updates.
I have not seen evidence of Mr M or the IFA chasing for information from Octopus which  it refused to 
provide.
I have seen evidence of meetings Octopus had with the IFA in 2016 and 2017.  These appear to have 
been general  discussions about various  clients the IFA acted for rather  than meetings  specific to any 
client. This may explain  why the IFA has said he didnt have a meeting with Octopus  in relation to Mr 
M.
In addition to those meetings Octopus has provided  six-monthly  statements which provide up to date 
valuations for the outstanding part of his investment.
Octopus has said there are ongoing legal  actions for recovery, but it isnt known  when or what will be 
recovered at this time and it wouldnt provide information about this until the actions were concluded.
It isnt clear what further information Mr M thinks Octopus  shouldve provided  to him. It is possible that 
it might have been able to tell him something more about the legal avenues Octopus is going  down. 
But Im not persuaded it has withheld information from him.
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  for the reasons I have explained.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2732863