K821x#15complaint
Mrs R, on behalf of Mr S, is unhappy  that Vanquis  Bank Limited hasnt upheld his section 75 
claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
Mr S purchased a TV which had a warranty. The TV suffered damage called screen  burn. 
The retailer  said this issue wasnt covered under the warranty,  as the manufacturer  
considered this screen burn to be accidental  damage.  
Mr Ss section  75 claim wasnt  upheld by Vanquis. Unhappy with this outcome he referred  
the matter to our service. 
An adjudicator has already looked at this case.  Overall he felt that Vanquis  hadnt acted 
fairly by refusing  Mr Ss section 75 claim. He therefore upheld the complaint. As Vanquis 
remain unhappy with this view, the matter has now been passed to me to look at.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im satisfied that Mr S has met the criteria  for a valid section 75 claim. I now need to 
determine if Vanquis should be held liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
the retailer. Ive carefully considered the report provided by the TV engineer.  This document  
is very helpful. It notes  the TV suffered screen burn and was uneconomical to repair.  The 
report also explains that this was caused due to a faulty part (T-Con board). 
The adjudicator has already explained  in previous correspondence that this part is 
responsible for the driving  of the individual LED's.  The engineer confirmed that this was 
pushing the LED's beyond the expected tolerances causing early  wear and thus image 
retention before a reasonable time. As the image  retention was due to an outside  influence 
and not consumer use, I have upheld the complaint.
On considering everything I agree  with the outcome reached by the adjudicator.  The issue  
Mr S has experienced with his TV does appear to have been  caused by a faulty  part and not 
accidental damage.  It therefore falls within the warranty.
On balance Im satisfied there was a fault with this product  and that Mr Ss section 75 claim 
should be upheld.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Vanquis Bank Limited should  
1.Arrange for the TV to be collected from Mr S at no cost to him;
2.Refund the cost of the TV in full to Mr S, and pay him 8% simple  interest  to date;
Ref: DRN226200123.Refund the cost of the inspection of the TV, pending confirmation of the payment 
from Mr S; and 
4.Pay Mr S £50 for the inconvenience of this whole matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R, on behalf  of 
Mr S, to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2262001