K821x#15Complaint
Mr B complained about the way Scottish  Equitable Plc (hereafter Aegon)  dealt  with his 
request to transfer  the funds from his Phased Retirement  Account  to a new provider; and in 
particular the value applied to the units he held.
Background
In 2018 Mr B requested a transfer of funds out of his Aegon pension  plan which  was in 
drawdown. At that time Mr B had been  receiving  regular monthly income  payments.
The following  timetable  of events is agreed:
29 January 2018: Aegon  received and actioned  Mr Bs request  to transfer his 
Retirement Cash Account fund to a SIPP (self-invested pension plan) with an 
alternative provider.
31 January 2018: Mr Bs monthly  drawdown  payment - due on 1 February 2018- was 
paid into his account.
This was a payment of £707.07 net (£883.87 gross). This was a consistent monthly 
sum- the same sum was paid to Mr B in December 2017.
Aegon say their internal  process for this payment started on 26 January 2018.
3 and 4 February  2018: The weekend and non-business days.
5 February 2018: The unit price  date used for the funds dis-invested  for transfer.
6 February 2018: Aegon  confirmed  they had transferred  £125,088.12 to the new 
provider on 6 February 2018
12 February 2018: The new provider received the funds and the transfer completed.
In summary  Mr B doesnt agree the date used  for the application of unit prices used for the 
dis-investment was the right one. He thinks this caused him a loss of around  £4,000  from the 
date they ought to have  used for the price.
Mr B said his understanding of Aegons procedure  was that they required two days once 
they had the claim  information. So he said Aegon ought to have gone ahead  with a 
disinvestment date of 31 January 2018.  
Part of this context was that in 2017  Mr B had complained to Aegon.  Whats relevant here is 
the following:
A transfer request was submitted on 16 May 2017 and Mr B and his adviser believed 
they had requested a transfer  date of 5 June 2017. The disinvestment date was 18 
May 2017 (with the unit prices  as of this date) but the transfer didnt take place until 6 
June 2017. Mr B said that if the disinvestment had taken place on the date selected 
for transfer (of 5 June  2017) he would have  gained by an amount of £43,000. Mr B 
said (in essence)  he considered the transfer  date to mean the disinvestment date.
Ref: DRN27672012In respect of this activity  Aegon said what had happened was in-line with their usual 
procedure. This was to action a disinvestment request on the claim date, two working 
days after they received all the necessary documentation. They said the transfer had 
been completed within the expected completion  date of 5 June 2017.
In relation to this complaint about  what happened  in 2018 Aegon didnt accept the complaint. 
They told us in summary:
They amended  the receipt  date of the request to transfer from 29 January 2018  to 1 
February 2018 as there was a regular  monthly  income payment waiting to be made 
to Mr B.
They have to wait for an income payment to go through and the relevant units to be 
deducted from the plan. This moved  the receipt  date of the request to 1 February 
2018 and the claim  date to 5 February 2018.
They have up to ten working days to complete the transfer and completed the 
transfer in six working days.
They couldn't stop the income payment  as it had already been sent to Mr B to make 
sure he had the payment by the due date of 1 February 2018.
The value used  for transfer  is normally  the value on the second day after they receive  the 
request. So, the claim date they should have used was 31 January 2019, but they needed  to 
change the claim date because of the income payment.
Aegon told Mr B they needed  to wait until theyd processed his income payment and had 
deducted the units before processing  the transfer. That was why it was the unit value on 5 
February that was transferred.
Mr B was dissatisfied with this as he felt it was inconsistent with what  Aegon  had said about 
their procedures previously. Initially he said he assumed the closure  request  would  mean no 
further payment  would be made to him or had indeed been requested as Aegon  were aware 
of the closure  and transfer. As the request was made  before  any payment date, he would  
have hoped this would  have triggered  an automatic  closure and no further transactions 
would have taken  place.
Mr B said he was surprised to receive his income  payment  and queried why, given the 
immediacy of current systems, an income payment took the time Aegon said it took. He also 
said he would have  expected system updates  and transfer processes to be automatic and 
thought the disinvestment ought to have at least been made using the unit prices of 3 
January 2018.
Aegon also provided a copy of their Investment fund cancellation  procedure ; attention  was 
drawn to the following  sections:
2.2 When Aegon have all the information  we need, we'll cash  in units  at the 'relevant 
date' using the 'relevant unit price' as set out in 2.3 and 2.4.
2.3 The relevant date that will apply  to requests is the date that we consider that we 
have all the relevant  supporting documentation to complete your request.
Ref: DRN276720132.4 The 'relevant unit price' depends  on the reason for cashing in investment units.
2.4.1 The relevant unit price will be: the unit price on the next again  business day as 
defined in your policy  booklet following the relevant date (that is 'relevant date plus 
two'), or the later date that you confirmed we should  use as the start date for paying 
retirement benefits or for making a transfer to another pension plan.
Our investigator asked  Aegon whether  it would  have been possible for the claim date to 
have been applied on 1 February 2018  after the income payment, as two working days  had 
passed since the transfer request was received.  If not, she wanted to know  details of any 
specific processes that needed to be completed, which meant the earliest claim date that 
could be applied was 5 February  2018.
Aegon said their process for this situation was that the receipt  date is the date the income  
payment cleared, meaning the claim date is two days after this. This was done  to ensure an 
income payment  is removed before  a transfer is completed so there is no overpayment on 
the transfer. They also told us the payment due for 1 February  had already been  submitted 
on 26 January, so there was no way they could have stopped the income payment as the 
transfer request  was received on 29 January.
Mr B highlighted:
His income payment  was paid into his bank account by Aegon  on 31 January 2018.
The only way to generate money from his pension fund was to sell units.  He knew  
that no units were sold before 31 January  2018.
In fact, Mr B went on to tell us his online account  was still live on 4 February  and the 
account value  was £126,825.01.
We asked Aegon about this and how the monthly income payment had been  made  in the 
absence of the dis-investment of any units.
Aegon told us at this stage that units were deducted  on 1 February 2018 to cover  the 
payment. My understanding  is that Aegon no longer say this is what happened.
The investigator issued  a view in which she upheld the complaint in part. She didnt accept 
Aegon needed a further two days from the date the income payment was made  so she 
concluded, in the absence  of a technical  explanation,  that the claim date on which the prices 
for disinvestment ought to have been used was 1 February 2018.
Mr B agreed with the investigator in general terms. Mr B went on to highlight  his concern at 
the apparent inconsistency in approach.
Aegon didnt agree.  They said the plan value is one of the most important pieces of 
information needed on transfer  and this information wasn't available before 1 February; so, 
this ought to be the date the clock  starts  for the two days to action  the disinvestment and 
claim. So (and because  3 and 4 February 2018  were the weekend dates) the valuing of the 
plan on 5 February was the correct process.
Ref: DRN27672014They thought it might help to provide more  information on the income  process. This included  
that they guarantee a payment won't  be later than the set date and they explained what they 
do to achieve  this. 
The investigator changed her view. She accepted Aegon needed to know the fund value 
prior to processing the transfer and the fund value wouldn't have been known until the 
income payment  was made, as it would have been  dependent on the unit prices used for the 
dis-investment for the units  to meet the income payment.
She thought  Aegon had acted within the terms of the plan, and the claim date had been set 
two business days after receiving the relevant information (the fund value being relevant 
information).
Mr B was unhappy with this and provided his thinking. He also provided  a copy of his original 
"Retirement Cash Account Personal  Pension Policy  booklet (PP RCA8). He couldnt  find 
anything about  "Fund  Cancellation Policy".  The investigator provided a copy  of the 
information sheet  on this that Aegon  had provided.
Mr B also provided us with a copy of his bank statement to evidence  the receipt of his 
monthly income payment on 31 January 2018.
The investigator asked  Aegon for more  information about the cancellation of units  and Mr Bs 
income payment.  She explained  her difficulty with Aegons submission that the fund value of 
Mr Bs plan wouldn't have been  known  until Mr B received his income payment on 1 
February 2018. But Mr B received the payment on 31 January 2018,  indicating the fund 
value would have  been known at an earlier  date.  And that Mr B had told us units  weren't 
cancelled until 4 February 2018  in order to make the income  payment. She also wanted to 
understand where the money came from to make  the income payment.
Aegon told us what they understand their responsibilities require  them to do. This included  
that a monthly  income payment had to be in Mr Bs account by the first of the month.  So, 
they normally send  the money  about six days before its due. This is paid by BACS  and 
takes around three working days to reach  the destination account.  Once  the money arrives 
the receiving bank will notify Aegon of receipt  and it is the date Aegon receive notification  
thats used to apply the withdrawal. So, they couldnt do as suggested by Mr B and simply 
deduct the sum of his monthly  income  payment from the overall fund value for transfer.
They felt it was unfortunate prices fell during this crucial period but commented that Mr B 
had known he was taking a monthly  income  and could have told them  not to pay it before 
submitting his transfer request. Aegon  suggested  that the fact Mr B didnt contact them  
implied he needed the money.
Our investigator explained her understanding that the income payment doesnt  come initially 
from Mr Bs fund and then asked for evidence confirming when Aegon had received 
notification from the receiving bank that the income payment for February 2018 was 
received.
Aegon told us their accounts department had provided confirmation of the income payment 
and a clipped electronic BACS notification was attached which in summary set out that the 
payment with Mr Bs bank  details had a reference  date of 30 January 2018  and the funds 
would have credited his account on the 31st January."
Ref: DRN27672015The investigator asked  for more  information  and Aegon provided a copy  of their payment 
system showing  a payment accepted  date of 1 February 2018.
The investigator went on to reject Mr Bs complaint. She accepted the income payment was 
received on 31 January  2018. And units were not cancelled in his fund until 4 February  
2018. It wasn't clear  how this had happened. But that now she knew more  about how the 
income payment  system worked  she didnt think Aegon had done anything  wrong.
She set out that she accepted Aegon's  explanation that they made Mr Bs income payment 
from their own resources  and wait for confirmation  from the receiving bank that the funds 
have been received before withdrawing  the income from his fund. And that it takes  up to two 
working days for the withdrawal process  to complete.
Her understanding was that Aegon  received  confirmation from Mr Bs receiving bank on 1 
February 2018 of the receipt of the income  payment. This was the date the withdrawal  / 
disinvestment process began to meet  the income  payment. The investigator  thought  that 
applying the two working day rule, the withdrawal  process was due to complete on 5 
February 2018 (as the dates fell over a weekend) and that was why units  were not cancelled 
until a later date to make up the income payment  then reimbursed to Aegon.
She thought  this also meant the overall  fund value to begin  the disinvestment and transfer  
process was not known  until the relevant units had been cancelled to make  the income  
payment. She didnt  think Aegon could have actioned the transfer  at an earlier date. She 
also thought Aegon had been right to proceed  with the income  payment  as they did not 
receive any specific instruction not to make it.
Mr B did not agree.  He thought that if Aegon had followed his instructions the closure should 
have been instigated on 29 January and the settlement  date would have been 31 January. 
Aegon having had confirmation of income payment receipt from Mr Bs bank  on 1 February 
2018 could then have recovered this amount from the settlement figure. He didnt  think it 
was right that Aegon had changed the receipt date to 1 February (your  income date). And 
he set out ways he thought Aegon ought to have dealt with the matter.
Aegon replied  to various points made by Mr B. 
I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 15 January 2020. In it I indicated  my 
intention to uphold  Mr Bs complaint in part and why. I also indicated what  I intended  to say 
Aegon would  be required  to do.
In summary  Mr B said he was prepared  to accept what I said. Although he wanted me to set 
out a time period in which compliance with my decision had to be completed. Mr B also 
indicated a number  of further submissions. I hope it will be understood I am only 
summarizing the main  points:
He says now that hed thought his transfer  and closure request would have been 
dealt with prior to his monthly payment being due.
He knew nothing of how the monthly  payment procedure worked until making this 
complaint.
At no stage was he informed by Aegon that the closure date had been deferred,  or 
the reasons why. 
Ref: DRN27672016He has questioned when things were  known and when unit prices  could have  been  
used. Mr B still thinks Aegon could and should  have  complied with his request and 
used the date he has previously highlighted.
Mr B also told us that a transfer into his pension plan would not be possible so any 
compensation would have  to paid direct as taxable income (at 20%).  He said hed like to see
their calculations.
Aegon didnt agree  with my provisional decision. They didnt think Id understood the history 
sufficiently. They also thought there  were  a number of places where I hadnt understood 
what they had said. But said that in their view, the complaint  was about the date used  to 
value Mr Bs plan for transfer.
They explained their process on disinvestment and transfer and why this was introduced.  
Aegon thought it was wrong to suggest there was any inconsistency on their part.
Aegon also repeated their obligations  and process  around monthly  income payments. And 
that this is considered fair, reasonable and is consistently used for all their customers.  Aegon  
went on to suggest  steps Mr B could have taken to protect his plan value here in advance  of 
a disinvestment;  and commented that here,  the plan could have as grown in value and they 
dont think Mr B would  be complaining about  the date used if that had happened.
Aegon feel they are being unfairly penalised here. And they particularly feel they are being  
penalised for activity  that is part of the usual process  of the banking  system. Its also felt my 
decision is inconsistent with previous decisions on their process and regulatory  approval.
Aegon accept  Id identified these are individual circumstances but highlight  that Id said they 
had carried out their process as they were  entitled to do. They didnt  think they ought to be 
required to change their process and reflect  Mr Bs understanding.
Aegon also explained their disagreement with my proposed loss calculation. They dont think  
its right to use an index to calculate the loss figure. They think  it ought to be based  on Mr 
Bs investment as this would reflect what he did rather  than a hypothetical position.
Aegon have gone on to set out why its important for regular monthly payments to be made  
on time. And how this is managed by an automated system. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I havent  changed  my 
thinking from that set out in my provisional  decision. I think  the crux of this complaint is about 
the date selected for the unit price  applied for the disinvestment of the funds. 
I accept there is nothing that suggests Aegon acted in a way they werent entitled to under  
their terms.  They certainly completed the transfer  within the time they ought  to have done. 
But taking everything  into account, I also think they could have acted in another way that 
would also have been consistent with their terms. And thats what  I think they need to do 
Ref: DRN27672017here. I would  like to indicate  this is very much due to the individual circumstances of this 
case and I am making no wider comment on their usual procedure  with such activities.
Ive seen that Aegon think I am being  inconsistent with previous decisions about  their 
processes on transfer. But each case is decided  on its own facts and merits. This is very 
much the case here.
Having considered everything  provided and particularly the history between Mr B and Aegon 
in 2017, this is such as to make me consider its fair in the unique  circumstances  that Aegon  
ought to complete the loss calculation  exercise as Ive have gone on to set out. This exercise 
uses an earlier date for the relevant unit price to have  been applied in the valuation  of Mr Bs 
funds for transfer.
I think there are a number  of inconsistencies and areas of dissatisfaction  where I dont think  
Aegon did all that they could. But I accept that can equally be applied to some  of what  Mr B 
has said. Overall  I accept  the events of 2017  and the complaint relating to them,  were  still 
very fresh at the time of this transfer  request, and would have understandably played a role 
in Mr Bs thinking. I think its reasonable that Mr B would have concluded that having sent in 
sufficient transfer information that the disinvestment  date and relevant unit price could be 
set, as Aegon had said it had to be in 2017 (even where the transfer follows  later).
Aegons relevant  unit price date is (as defined by their terms at 2.4.1)  is either two days after 
the relevant date (the date at which Aegon consider they have all the relevant supporting 
documentation to complete the transfer  request)  or a later date confirmed by the consumer 
for Aegon to use for transfer.
I accept here that prior to disinvestment and transfer, in general terms any outstanding 
payment ought  reasonably to be processed. But its not right to say here the relevant unit 
price date cant be set prior to disinvestment.
Its also somewhat specious to suggest  that Aegon couldnt disinvest until they knew the 
value of the fund.  The value of the fund will most  likely  change  to some  degree daily.  So, it is 
the date of the selected dis-investment  that determines the relevant unit price that will then 
determine the value of the fund for transfer. I dont  think its right to say Aegon  need to know 
the fund value to meet  the requirements  of the relevant date (2.3 of their terms);  in other 
words, as part of the relevant supporting documentation needed to complete a transfer.
There is subjective element to Aegons  terms as they set out that its for them  to determine  
when they consider they have all the relevant  supporting documentation to complete a 
transfer. But I understand the real intent  behind this term to be the documentation relating to 
transfer; not that relating  to the daily administration of the plan.
I have seen here that Mr Bs monthly  income  payment  was a regular set sum;  it was a 
known factor. Even though Aegons process  is to pay such sums from their own funds and 
then later disinvest from Mr Bs fund the relevant units. I dont think Mr B could  have been  
reasonably expected to know or take into account, given his most recent history when 
transferring previously, that the unit price used for disinvestment, and the disinvestment from 
his fund would follow after he had been paid his monthly income payment. Although  I do 
tend to think Mr B ought to have been  aware that he was due an income payment, I dont 
consider this prevented a unit price for disinvestment being determined.
Ref: DRN27672018I think its fair here to conclude that Aegon had enough information to administer the transfer 
prior to 5 February 2018; and thus,  an earlier unit price date ought here to apply.  The 
transfer itself didnt need to be completed  at the same time. Nor indeed  did the dis-
investment from Mr Bs fund need to be completed, in my view, prior to the relevant unit 
price date being set (or at the same time).
I have thought very carefully about  whether its right to consider  Aegon had sufficient 
information on 29 January 2018  (when  they received the completed transfer request) or 31 
January 2018  when  Mr B received his monthly payment. Theres  nothing that suggests to 
me there was a history of failed monthly income  payments here.  I think  there are grounds on 
which I could fairly  conclude that 29 January 2018  is the relevant date and 31 January 2018 
could be the date on which the unit prices  to be applied in due course (as appropriate) were 
set.
But here I think its right (having balanced all that I have been told) to conclude the date of 
31 January 2018  ought to apply as the relevant date. I dont necessarily think the monthly 
income payment  needed to be made prior to the relevant  date or unit price date being  
determined; but I accept here that its fairer to account for that completion  of the payment.
So here I think it reasonable  to conclude Aegon had enough information by 31January 2018 
such as for this date to qualify as the relevant  date for Mr Bs request to transfer. The 
relevant unit price date ought to be that of 2 February 2018.
This is a reasonable conclusion based on the circumstances  of this case, which,  as I have 
said, are very individual. And here I think it is important to take into account information and 
communications provided in respect  of Mr Bs earlier complaint  about how unit prices had 
been selected. This has informed my thinking, which I accept appears to be inconsistent with 
Aegons general approach. But I think it would be unfair here to fail to take into account  what  
Aegon had said about unit price dates for disinvestment in 2017; and it would be reasonable 
to use this to inform what Aegon could have  reasonably done  here.
In setting out my thinking I think its important to stress that I dont think Aegon  or Mr B did all 
they could have done. I accept Mr B knew he had an income payment due and I dont 
accept, particularly given  the recent history, it was prudent  for him to have simply expected 
this income payment would be cancelled or justified later. I dont accept the submission that 
the absence of an instruction demonstrates  a financial need. But its reasonable for Aegon  to 
be cautious in relation  to varying  income payments (in general  terms).  Equally here, I dont 
think Mr B could  reasonably be expected to have  understood the time and approach 
required to complete the process used to make a monthly income  payment. 
I accept here Aegon didnt receive  the application to transfer (29 January 2018) until their 
internal process  for paying Mr Bs regular monthly  income payment had started (26 January 
2018).
Its not part of the scope  of my decision to tell Aegon how they ought to run their internal 
processes. It does appear to me that some of the processes that have been explained to us 
might be perceived as overly complex.  But thats not what I am looking at. I havent seen 
anything that makes me think there  was any error  made in respect of their usual process.
I accept that some explanations seem to have  slightly altered or developed  during the 
course of the investigation. Based on what Ive been  told for example it took from 26 to 30 
January 2018  to action a regular transfer  of funds electronically from Aegon  to Mr Bs bank 
Ref: DRN27672019account. The funds  being received by Mr B on 31 January 2018.  It was then on 1 February  
2018 that the process to disinvest from Mr Bs drawdown plan commenced and the unit price 
from this date is the one used;  albeit the income payment related disinvestment doesnt  take 
place until 5 February 2018. So, it appears  the February regular income payment involved 
an 11-day process.
And if this is right there  is potentially a scenario where it could be said that the relevant date 
where Aegon could have said that they had all the relevant supporting  documentation  to 
complete the request  to transfer was 5 February. The relevant unit price  ought to be two 
days after this, the 7 February 2018.  But of course, Aegon  completed the transfer on 6 
February 2018.
I think its also right to note that there is no suggestion that Aegons actions in processing the 
monthly income payment and transfer were motivated by any gain to Aegon in the 
disinvestment process.
Having looked  with care at everything, I dont think it can be said that Aegon  have acted 
outside of what  they were  permitted to do. But that doesnt mean  here, in the very individual 
circumstances, it isnt right to require them to do something different.  This reflects  what I 
accept Mr B would have reasonably understood the position to have been  when  instructing  
on the transfer; and what  I consider it to be fair to inform my conclusion Aegon  need to do 
something further here.
I understand my decision isnt what Mr B said ought  to be done; nor does Aegon agree. But I 
have taken everything in to account when concluding my thinking.  I consider this is to be a 
fair and pragmatic approach, where  I dont  think things  were done by either  party as well as 
they could have been.
I understand Aegon continue to feel they are being penalised unfairly. But I hope they will 
understand that it is part of my role to consider whats  fair and reasonable. In 2017 Mr B was 
firmly informed about how Aegon applied  their approach to disinvestment, and the selection 
of unit prices; even where transfer  followed later. And I dont think this completely consistent 
with what was said about events in 2018.  In those circumstances, I think  its right that Aegon  
now complete a loss assessment that fairly  reflects what  would have been reasonably 
understood from their earlier approach. 
Ive also seen what Aegon say about  the loss calculation exercise. What I have proposed  
isnt the only method  of calculation available. But having taken everything into account,  I 
think this is a simple and fair approach.  I accept that it could also be completed in other 
ways, including  using  investment information. But by using an index I hope  this will enable all 
parties to bring  matters  efficiently to a conclusion  and enable a simple and timely calculation  
process to be completed.
Ive seen Mr B asked for me consider telling Aegon to settle any redress  within  a time scale.  
As Aegon are required to pay Mr B for any ongoing loss to the time of settlement, if my 
decision is accepted,  I consider I have adequately  addressed  this.
What Aegon  must do
Aegon are required to calculate the value of Mr Bs fund for transfer using the unit prices  of 2 
February 2018 (this is to be sum A). 
Ref: DRN276720110The value of Sum A should take into account the disinvestment of the units  as required for 
the monthly income payment.  I understand the unit price to have been applied  for this 
disinvestment to be 1 February 2018  (the date on which Aegons payment was confirmed  to 
have reached Mr Bs account). 
If the value  of Sum A is higher than the sum that was transferred (Sum B), then Mr B has 
suffered a loss (this being Sum C); if it is not then Mr B will not have suffered a loss.
If there is a loss, I previously said Aegon  should  preferably pay a sum into Mr B's pension  
plan to increase  its value  by the amount of the compensation  and any interest. The amount 
paid should allow for the effect  of charges  and any available tax relief. Compensation should  
not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
Its understood Aegon are not able to pay the compensation into Mr B's pension  plan. So, 
they should pay any amount due direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, 
it would  have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Mr B's actual marginal rate of tax.
If Mr B has suffered  a loss, he has lost out on the growth of the Sum C amount once it was 
transferred. I think it is fair here to use an index  to assess any loss of growth. This should be 
used to apply  to the loss figure  (Sum C) from the date Mr Bs actual transfer  took place until 
the date of settlement.
I propose the following approach to assess the loss of growth on any loss sum (Sum C). Ive 
chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who  
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr B's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean  that Mr B 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Aegon should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.
Ref: DRN276720111Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aegon deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Aegon should  give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Aegon ought to provide  their calculations to Mr B in a clear format.
In addition, Aegon will need  to pay Mr B £150 to represent his distress  and inconvenience.
Final decision
So, for the reasons given I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Scottish Equitable  Plc in part. 
They will need to complete the loss assessment as set out above and pay all sums due to 
Mr B as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Louise Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2767201