K822xcomplaint
Miss S complains  about the service  she received  from Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited following  a claim  against  her motor insurance policy.
background 
In May 2018, Miss S was involved in an accident  and called Advantage to make  a claim 
against her policy. She complains that there was a delay in the recovery  agent  reaching her. 
Miss Ss car was recovered to a garage but the garage  didnt offer her a courtesy  car. 
Instead, Advantage offered Miss S a hire car for the duration of her claim. There were 
difficulties in arranging  delivery of the hire car and Miss S went to collect  the hire car the day 
after the accident. 
In June 2018, Advantage told Miss S that her car was a total loss and offered to extend  the 
hire car for a further seven days and then a further three days. 
Miss S pursued her complaint and Advantage paid her compensation of £100. It later paid 
Miss S compensation of £30 in relation to its handling of her complaint and offered  to 
increase the compensation by £70, bringing  the total compensation to £200.
Our adjudicator thought that total compensation of £200 was fair. She said that Advantage 
hasnt denied that there was a delay in recovering  Miss Ss car to the garage.  The 
adjudicator said that, under the terms of Miss Ss policy,  Advantage could have asked her to 
return the hire car on the day it decided that her car was a total loss. She thought  Advantage 
had handled  this part of Miss Ss complaint fairly in agreeing an extension to the hire car and 
paying Miss S compensation of £100. The adjudicator said that there was some  confusion 
about the hire car but that Miss Ss inconvenience  was minimised,  as she had a hire car 
from the day after the accident to three  days after Advantage settled her claim. 
The adjudicator said that Advantage accepted that it didnt return  calls when it said it would 
and sent an email to an incorrect address. She said that its offer of £70 - bringing  the total to 
£100 in relation to this part of Miss Ss complaint - was fair. 
Miss S didnt agree with the adjudicator. She said that she hadnt said that she wasnt  
available for delivery  of the hire car and outlined the confusion between  the hire car provider 
and Advantage.  Miss S also said that she wasnt told that there was any difficulty  getting a 
car before the bank holiday weekend. She said that the root cause  of the difficulty  was that 
the garage didnt  agree  to accept  her car, so it was put in storage and the garage didnt offer 
her a courtesy car. 
The adjudicator noted Miss Ss comments but didnt think that these issues altered the 
outcome, as Miss S had a hire car from the day after the accident. The adjudicator  thought 
that the compensation Advantage had already paid in relation to this part of the complaint 
was fair. 
Miss S didnt think that the compensation reflects her experience.  
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, for a decision. 
Ref: DRN20328982The Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  is the right body to deal with allegations of 
data breaches.  As the ICO has dealt with Miss Ss complaint about Advantages data 
breach, I dont comment on that further  but Ive noted it as part of the background of Miss Ss 
complaint.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Advantage made a number of errors here. Im conscious  that Ive 
condensed what  I dont doubt was a very worrying  and stressful time into a short  narrative. 
That reflects  our service  that, wherever possible,  aims to be informal.  But Im satisfied  that 
Ive captured the essence of what happened.
The starting point  is Miss Ss policy, which provides  that in the circumstances that arose  
here, Advantage would  pay the reasonable cost of taking Miss Ss car to its nominated 
repairer. There was delay in the recovery agent  attending to Miss Ss car. That was stressful 
for Miss S at an already  worrying  time.  
Miss Ss policy also says that Advantages nominated repairer  will provide a courtesy  car. 
I can see from Advantages records that it had some difficulty  with its nominated repairer. A 
consequence of that was that Miss S wasnt offered a courtesy car. Miss S is right to say that 
the difficulties  Advantage  had with its nominated repairer were  the root cause of this part of 
the problem. 
Advantage tried to put matters right by arranging a hire car for Miss S. I think that was fair. 
But there was further difficulty and confusion  about  the arrangements for the hire car. 
Advantage initially indicted that it would arrange  for the delivery  of the hire car to Miss S but 
there was confusion and conflicting information from Advantage and the hire car company. 
So, Miss S arranged to collect the hire car on the day after the accident. 
Under the terms of Miss Ss policy, a courtesy  car isnt available after Advantage decided 
that her car was a total loss. Here, Advantage arranged for a hire car from the day after the 
accident to a date well beyond the date it decided that Miss Ss car was a total loss. I think 
that was generous. 
The delay in recovering Miss Ss car caused  her stress and the subsequent  confusion about 
a replacement car was no doubt annoying. But Miss S had a hire car from the day after the 
accident and for a longer  period than Advantage  was strictly obliged to provide one. Against 
that background, I think that compensation of £200  is fair here.  I do appreciate that Miss S 
thinks that Advantage should pay more but Im afraid I dont  agree.  
Its not clear to me how much compensation Advantage  has already paid to Miss S, so I 
order it to pay an amount that means  that the total compensation is £200.   
 
my final decision
My final decision is that the amounts already paid or offered by Advantage  Insurance  
Company Limited  are fair. I now require  Advantage to pay to Miss S whatever sum is 
necessary to take the total compensation paid to £200.
Ref: DRN20328983Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2019
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2032898