K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Miss N say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  (BOS)  mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr B and Miss N bought  the policy in 2006 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr B only for accident,  sickness,  and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £184.51 a month towards 
Mr B and Miss Ns mortgage balance  in the event  of a successful claim. At the time, it cost 
£10.96 a month. 
At the time,  Mr B was employed as a labourer.  He has told us he was entitled to three  
months sick pay and death  in service benefit  through his employer. But he didnt have any 
other means  (such as savings) of repaying  their mortgage should he be unable  to work. He 
did however say he could rely on his partner. Mr B has said he had a medical problem prior 
to the sale. 
Miss N was not covered by the policy. 
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 2006.  
Mr B and Miss Ns representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr B and Miss Ns representative  says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr B and Miss N 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr B and Miss Ns representatives  believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Mr B and Miss N about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr B and Miss N and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN22445452The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr B and Miss N received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B and Miss N disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr B and Miss Ns. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr B and Miss Ns 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
Ref: DRN22445453a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BOS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so BOS was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr B and Miss Ns complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mr B and Miss N with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN22445454-Whether BOS gave Mr B and Miss N sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr B and Miss N, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what extent 
Mr B and Miss N suffered loss or damage  and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both 
Mr B and Miss N and BOS,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr B and Miss Ns complaint. Ive set 
out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr B and Miss  N know  they had a choice?
BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Neither BOS nor Mr B and Miss N have been able to provide me with copies of all the 
paperwork from the time of sale. I dont  think thats surprising given how long ago this policy 
was sold. But it does  mean I have limited  information  about the sale, so Ive had to decide 
what I think is more likely  based on the available evidence. 
Ive seen a screenshot of BOSs computer  records which recorded the questions and 
answers Mr B gave when  the BOSs advisor assessed the eligibility and suitability of the 
policy  so I think it was discussed to some  degree. Ive also seen a note the advisor made 
that theyd recommended  PPI and another insurance product, but Mr B had only wanted the 
PPI.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr B and Miss Ns mortgage  offer document which had a separate 
section for insurance.  It explicitly said customers didnt need to take any insurance with BOS  
and set out the PPI (which it called Mortgage  Repayments Cover (MRC) at the time), under 
the Optional Insurance heading  and set out the cost. 
BOS has provided a copy of a welcome  letter Mr B and Miss N were  sent the day the 
insurance started,  setting out the cost, benefit and their cancelation rights. I think  its clear 
from this letter theyd  taken PPI to cover  Mr B only. Had they not agreed to take PPI, I 
wouldve expected  them to have questioned why it had been set up and Ive seen nothing  to 
suggest they did at the time.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr B and Miss N knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BOS provide  advice?
Ref: DRN22445455BOS says it provides  advice during  this sale. Mr B and Miss N cant  recall if it did. Looking at 
what happened when  BOS sold Mr B and Miss N the PPI, Im persuaded that it provided 
advice. I say this because Ive seen a demands and needs statement BOS produced after it 
assessed their needs and recommended  PPI. 
This means  BOS had to advise Mr B and Miss N with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BOS took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr B and Miss N. The adviser had information about some  of Mr B and Miss Ns financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr B had a need for the policy  by 
asking questions about their wider  circumstances such as any health issues  and existing 
means  I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. I say this because I 
havent seen any evidence that BOS  sought  to establish whether Mr B had any employee  
benefits that could be used to repay  their mortgage if he was unable to work. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BOS  did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr B and Miss N given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BOS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr B and Miss N, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy. Miss N wasnt covered by the policy.  
-Mr B and Miss N had a need for the policy  it seems likely Mr B and Miss Ns 
finances would be put under strain if Mr B was not working   even allowing for the 
sickness benefits he was entitled to and Miss Ns income. The policy would have 
helped Mr B and Miss N manage the consequences if Mr B was unable  to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr B and Miss N. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr B. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Bs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. Regarding  pre-existing  medical conditions,  Mr B has told us he had 
some dental treatment a few years before the sale. But he hadnt taken any 
significant time off for this treatment and he hasnt  told us he suffered any ongoing 
problems with it once  hed been  treated. So, I dont think  this made  the policy 
unsuitable. 
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr B be disabled  or unemployed for 60 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr B and Miss Ns 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr B be unable to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ref: DRN22445456Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BOS gave Mr B and Miss N sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BOS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr B and Miss N were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr B was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  
Mr B and Miss N would have taken  out the policy without any sense  of what  the policy was 
for and of how much the premium might  be. I can see the cost was set out on their mortgage 
offer document sent before the policy started. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BOS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mr B and Miss N agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr B and Miss N Im not persuaded 
BOS did enough  to present information  about  the policy it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BOS gave Mr B and Miss N all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr B and Miss Ns representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr B and Miss Ns. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr B and Miss Ns representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr B and Miss N about  the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr B and Miss Ns representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr B and Miss N have suggested. And taking into account the 
law, industry codes and standards  of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that BOS ought  to have done either. 
Ref: DRN22445457what effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Mr B and Miss N? To what extent  did 
Mr B and Miss N suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to 
Mr B and Miss N. So, I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr B and Miss N suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must 
decide whether  or not Mr B and Miss N would  have still taken  out the policy,  had BOS  done 
things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BOS took the steps it should  have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr B and Miss N, I have found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr B and Miss N have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if BOS  had explained  things 
properly, Mr B and Miss N would have  acted differently, or whether they would have taken 
out the policy in any event.
Mr B and Miss N say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr B and Miss N had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BOS advised  them that there  was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  
Mr B was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment,  they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr B and Miss Ns 
circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them.
I consider it more likely  than not that Mr B and Miss N knew  what  they would have to pay for 
the policy. Their  mortgage offer document had the exact cost on it so they were  told the cost 
before the policy started.  
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr B and Miss N were  given about the cost 
and was clear. But the information about  other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.
Im not persuaded BOS made clear exactly what Mr B and Miss N would get back in return  in 
the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely  Mr B and Miss Ns 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did  if 
Ref: DRN22445458anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B and Miss N thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr B knew  about or 
should reasonably have known  about, or which he consulted  a doctor about during 
the 12 months before the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee; 
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable  to 
do their own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr B and Miss N pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B and Miss N from taking  out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr B and Miss Ns circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr B was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Although Mr B says he had some  
dental treatment  some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think  better information 
about this exclusion  would have put him off agreeing  to it. I say this because  he hadnt  
needed any significant time off work  because  of it and Mr B also hasnt said he suffered any 
ongoing issues with it after he was treated. So, I dont  think  he would have  envisaged that 
this would be the main  reason hed need to make a claim. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than 
Mr B and Miss N might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely Mr B would have 
expected to be able to make a disability claim without having  to provide some evidence  to 
support that claim. And while  this limitation  might  have  dissuaded  some  consumers in 
slightly different circumstances to Mr B and Miss N from taking out the policy,  
Mr B and Miss N, in their circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr B and Miss N had known  Mr B could only claim for disability if he was not only unable 
to do his job or any similar job but also unable to do any work which in the insurers view he 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into their thinking  about what  they 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  the pause for thought  although given their 
Ref: DRN22445459circumstances, on balance, I still think they would have been interested  in taking out the 
cover. 
BOS may not have  told Mr B and Miss N that any claim  Mr B made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr B would have received full sick pay for and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr B and Miss N would still have thought  a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr B be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr Bs sick pay or any redundancy money 
for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr B and Miss N would still have taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable  for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr B was made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr B and Miss N would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr B and Miss Ns representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP  
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr B and Miss N would  not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account 
Mr B and Miss Ns circumstances as detailed  above,  I consider  it reasonable to conclude the 
position Mr B and Miss N found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same  position 
they would  have been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mr B and Miss N believe the presumption  may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN224454510Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B and Miss N in the position they would have been in 
if they had not bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Mr B and Miss N compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr B and Miss N think BOS  misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
BOSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why BOS  failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Mr B and Miss N, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2006  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr B and Miss Ns representative  says a court might 
take if it were to find BOS  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr B and Miss N and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that BOS  had been in breach of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr B and Miss N in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Miss N 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2244545