K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage in 1992, at the same time they were  sold a PPI policy. 
The policy covered Mr R only against  being unable to work due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. From what Ive seen the policy cost around £25.35 per month. In event of a 
successful claim  it wouldve paid a monthly benefit equivalent to the monthly mortgage 
repayment plus £150. And it couldve  paid the benefit for up to 24 months.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should  be upheld. Nationwide disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why. 
I dont think Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs R clear  enough information about the policy.      
The policy at the time included  a 90 day waiting period. This meant that no claim could be 
made until Mr R had been off work sick or unemployed  for 90 consecutive  days. And then, if 
he could make a claim, it would be backdated  only to day 61. 
I dont think this important  term of the policy  was drawn clearly  to Mr and Mrs Rs attention.     
If it had been I think its unlikely theyd have taken  the PPI. 
I say this because  Mr R was self-employed and had no work-related benefits such as sick 
pay. Mr and Mrs R also said they had little savings. So this meant,  during  the period when 
Mr and Mrs R were most likely to need  help, the PPI would have been no use to them.  
Nationwide has pointed  to some documents it says would have been given to Mr and Mrs R 
when the policy was sold to them. I dont know if Mr and Mrs R actually received the 
paperwork Nationwide has shown us but even if they had I dont think it made this important 
feature of the policy clear enough.
Ive looked at the leaflet  shown to us by Nationwide. I cant  see that it states clearly  that no 
benefit would be paid for three months. I dont think the statement in the exclusions section, 
Any period of disablement or unemployment  which does not exceed 90-days is particularly 
straightforward English.  
The document refers to the first payment covering the final month  of the first 90 day period of 
the policyholders absence  from work. I think a lot of readers would find that confusing.  
There is no clear  explanation of what happens about  the first two months. 
Ref: DRN29660612Nationwide has said that, if Mr and Mrs R had been  unable to meet their mortgage payments 
because Mr R was off work, it would  have worked  with them  by allowing either  formal  or 
informal payment concessions to see them through this period. I accept this might  well have 
happened. And I note that Mr and Mrs R did in fact get into arrears  at some point. But I think 
such an informal arrangement was unlikely to have  given  Mr and Mrs R enough assurance 
given their circumstances.  I still think it likely  theyd  have  decided the PPI wasnt  worth the 
expense. 
 
So I think Mr and Mrs R lost out as a result of the PPI sale. So Nationwide needs  to put 
things right.
what Nationwide should  do to put things right
Nationwide Building  Society should  put Mr and Mrs R in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and 
Nationwide Building  Society should:
Pay Mr and Mrs R the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.    
The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nationwide  Building 
Society can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
I understand Nationwide has paid some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R 
already. If this is the case it can take off this amount from the total it owes  them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide Building Society  to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide Building  Society must give Mr and Mrs R a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Nationwide Building Society  to pay Mr and Mrs R 
compensation as set out in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2966061