K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint is that Santander UK Plc should have done more to protect  his funds when 
he was the victim of a scam and that it should reimburse him his lost money.
background
On 3 January  2018 Mr H authorised a transfer  via online banking of £80 to a scammer for 
what he thought  was a game console.  He contacted  Santander on 15 January as he 
suspected he may have  been a victim  of a scam but wasnt yet sure. He contacted 
Santander again on 18 January to confirm he had been the victim of a scam. He hadnt  
received the item and could no longer contact the seller. 
Santander contacted the beneficiary bank on 18 January  to try and recover Mr Hs funds.  
Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank responded to advise no funds remained. Santander 
informed Mr H that as he authorised  the payments and Santander followed his instructions, it 
hadnt made an error in sending the £80 and wouldnt be refunding  this. Mr H referred his 
complaint to our service.   
Our adjudicator didnt  think Santander should have done more  to identify the payments as 
potentially fraudulent in the circumstances. And she felt that it had done enough to try and 
recover the funds  from the beneficiary bank. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators 
assessment, so the case has been  passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Santander  are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6).  
Ref: DRN29920082And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with Mr H when he transferred the £80, or whether it should  have done more than it did. 
Ive thought about this carefully,  keeping  in mind what Ive mentioned above. Looking  at the 
statements for the account, I dont think the type of payment or the amount  was particularly 
unusual or suspicious  in comparison to Mr Hs normal account activity. There isnt anything  
remarkable about  this payment in terms of either its value or payment type. Mr H made card 
payments and bill payments for similar  or higher amounts on a regular basis. So, I think  the 
fact that Santanders  systems didnt flag this payment as suspicious was fair and reasonable 
given the circumstances.
Mr H first contacted Santander on 15 January 2018 when he became suspicious about the 
scammer. From the notes on file I can see it wasnt clear if it was a confirmed scam at that 
time. On 18 January,  Mr H provided more information about the scammer and the issues  
hed had trying to contact  them. Santander  raised  a scam complaint on 18 January and 
contacted the beneficiary bank on the same day to request a return of the funds. So, I think  it 
did all it could to try and recover Mr Hs funds.  Unfortunately, Mr Hs funds were removed 
from the beneficiary account by the morning  of 4 January 2018.
Mr H has said Santander should  have reversed the transaction once he confirmed he had 
been the victim of a scam. But due to the type of payment  Mr H made, Santander couldnt 
reverse the transaction or recall  it from the beneficiary bank. All it was able to do was 
request a refund of the funds if they were remaining in the beneficiary account, which I can 
see it did, but unfortunately  the funds were  no longer available.
I appreciate how frustrating its been  for Mr H to be the victim  of a scam. But after 
considering everything  available  to me, I think that Santanders decision not to refund Mr H 
in this instance was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. This is because I think 
Santander followed his instruction to make the £80 transfer correctly  and I havent seen any 
reason why it shouldnt  have  done this. And I think it took sufficient steps to try and recover  
the funds in a timely manner once it was notified of the scam.
Ref: DRN29920083my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2992008