K820x#14complaint
Mr Vs unhappy with the way Pinnacle  Insurance Plc has dealt with a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
background
In January 2015 Mr V was involved in an accident. He made a claim  on his Pinnacle  motor 
insurance policy which had a compulsory £3,000 excess. He was later found to be at fault by 
a Court.  In July 2016 he paid just over £990  for the damage to the other  vehicle. Some time 
later in May 2018  Pinnacle asked him to pay £9,673 for a personal injury claim as he hadnt 
replied to its correspondence. 
Mr V is unhappy about this. He says he thought the previous £990 payment had settled the 
claim. He thinks the personal injury claim was therefore fraudulent and he shouldnt have to 
pay anything more.  He also says that despite  paying £50 to Pinnacles representative to 
update his address Pinnacle  sent some correspondence to his old address and he didnt 
receive it.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be partly upheld. He said in summary:
Pinnacle has shown  that a Court found  Mr V liable for the accident and the personal 
injury claim. Mr V says he thought  the claim was settled by his payment of £990 and 
so the personal  injury  claim  must  be fraudulent. But the other party  has a number of 
years to pursue  a personal injury  claim.  And it can take many years  to resolve. He is 
satisfied Pinnacle  has correctly paid out for the personal injury claim.
Mr V says he paid Pinnacles representative  £50 to change his address but it 
appears this was never  communicated  to Pinnacle. As a result  some correspondence 
was sent to his old address. And as it didnt get a reply  from Mr V, Pinnacle asked 
him to pay £9,670  not just his £3,000  excess.  That wouldve come as shock  to Mr V. 
Given what happened Pinnacle  accepts Mr V didnt receive some letters and it has 
now limited its recovery  from Mr V to a total of £3,000 which  is the agreed policy 
excess. Thats fair. Mr V must  still pay the balance owed for this. But Pinnacle should  
pay Mr V £250 compensation for its failure  to update  its systems  and the resulting 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr V remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. He says he didnt receive 
letters and as a result couldnt take or initiate any action from his end. Pinnacle should  waive  
the full excess  amount.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V says the fact the third partys  personal injury  claim was brought  some time after he paid 
some money to cover the vehicle damage  shows its fraudulent. But I dont think  thats  
necessarily the case as a claimant has a number of years after the accident  in which  to bring 
such a claim to court.
Ref: DRN20591412Mr V also says the fact he didnt  receive some  correspondence  meant  he couldnt take or 
initiate action. But I dont  think  this had any material effect on the resolution of this claim. 
Under the terms of the policy Pinnacle  is entitled  to defend and settle a claim as it sees  fit. It 
also doesnt need Mr Vs approval of any decision to admit  liability, settle a claim or make  a 
payment to a third party. 
In this case its clear the matter was considered by a Court  which  judged  that Mr V was 
responsible for the accident and therefore liable for the third partys personal  injury claim.
When Mr V took out the policy he agreed to a compulsory excess of £3,000. That is the 
amount he has to pay towards  any claim and I dont see any reason why Pinnacle  should 
now waive his liability for it. Mr V paid out around £990 in July 2016 and he therefore  now 
owes Pinnacle the remaining amount to take his payment up to the agreed excess  figure.  
Theres also nothing to show  this initial payment  was made  in full and final settlement of his 
liability to Pinnacle  and its fair he now makes arrangements to pay the balance.
What is clear and accepted is that Pinnacles representative didnt properly update  its 
systems or communicate  Mr Vs new address. That error resulted in him not receiving a 
number of important  letters.  Pinnacles subsequent demand for him to pay the sum of £9,670  
apparently came out of the blue and I can understand how Mr V wouldve been  distressed by 
receiving it. I agree  with the investigator  that this warrants a payment of some compensation.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make I agree that a 
payment of £250  compensation  is fair and reasonable. But as I have said I dont think I can 
fairly or reasonably now require Pinnacle  to waive payment of the £3,000  policy excess  as 
Mr V would like. 
Overall I therefore dont see any compelling  reason  to change  the proposed outcome in this 
case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right Pinnacle Insurance  Plc 
should now pay Mr V £250  compensation.
Pinnacle must pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr V 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Pinnacle considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr V how much  its taken  off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019. 
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2059141