K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) wrongly recorded a fault claim against  
him when  he made a claim  on his motor insurance policy.
 
background
Mr Ss car was hit by the car behind, which in turn had been hit by a third car, and was 
shunted into Mr Ss car. The third car fled the scene and Mr S didnt get its registration plate 
number. As Mr S wasnt  at fault for the accident,  he didnt think  it was fair than he had to pay 
the policy excess when  repairs were done on his car. And he didnt think  his no claims 
discount (NCD) should be affected,  either.   
UKI said it had investigated  the incident,  but without being able to identify  the driver of the 
third car it couldnt recover  what it had paid out on the claim. It said Mr S had benefitted from 
the policy cover (by making a successful claim on it) so his NCD was affected. It said it 
couldnt take legal action  against an unknown driver. As UKI couldnt show that the driver of 
the second car was negligent,  it said there was nothing more  it could do. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ss complaint. She thought  UKI had acted  
reasonably. She noted that it had contacted  the police and the insurer of the second car. 
Neither had any details of the third car that had caused  the damage to the other  two cars. 
She thought  it was fair for UKI not to allow Mr Ss NCD. She said the uninsured  drivers 
promise in the policy didnt apply because Mr S didnt have the required details of the other  
car that were needed for it to apply. She also noted that the policy didnt offer cover  for the 
injuries Mr S had sustained. She said he could  contact  the Motor  Insurance  Bureau (MIB)  
as it may be able to assist  him. 
Mr S didnt accept the investigators view. Later on, another investigator considered his 
complaint and agreed that it shouldnt be upheld. Mr S said he wanted a review of it by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr S wasnt to blame for the accident,  I can see why he doesnt think he should lose out 
as a result  of it. But I dont  think UKI has acted unreasonably. Mr S made a claim on his 
policy and UKI paid it by having his car repaired. Normally UKI would have tried to recover 
its outlay from the insurer  of the person  who caused the accident. In this case, UKI cant  
show that the driver of the second  car was at fault, as he was shunted into Mr Ss car by the 
third car. So UKI would normally  try to recover its costs from the insurer of the third car. 
Unfortunately, despite making enquiries to the police and to the second drivers insurance 
company, UKI doesnt have any details of the third party car or its driver.  I dont  think  it could 
have done anything further  to investigate the matter.  
Where an insurer has paid a claim and cant recover its losses,  its standard  industry practice  
for a fault  claim to be recorded against  the policy holder who made the claim. That doesnt  
mean that any blame attaches to that person. It just reflects the fact that the insurer cant  
recover its outlay. 
Ref: DRN25897212Given Mr Ss claim, I dont think it was wrong for UKI to tell him his NCD would be affected. 
And he wont be able to recover the policy excess hes paid. The person to blame for the 
accident isnt known, so it cant be claimed  back from that person or from another  insurer. If 
the uninsured  drivers promise applied, then Mr S would retain his NCD. But in order  for it to 
apply, UKI would have  to be able to establish  that the other  driver  was uninsured. The only 
way to do that would be to have  the details of the car, which  arent available. 
Mr Ss policy  doesnt provide cover for the injuries  hes sustained. But the MIB has a scheme 
that deals with untraced drivers, so it may be able to assist  him. I can see that UKI advised 
Mr S to contact the MIB whilst it was looking into the claim, as did the investigator. 
I sympathise greatly with the position Mr S has found himself in, but as I dont  think UKI has 
done anything  wrong, I cant uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2589721