K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained about the service provided  by Ashbourne Insurance Services Ltd on 
renewal of his home insurance policy. He says that led to a claim following a burglary not 
being paid in full.
background
Mr E says that in October 2016 he contacted  Ashbourne before his policy  was due to renew  
and told it his wife had bought a watch worth £3,000. Mr E says he was told that the watch 
was covered under the limit of £15,000 for single items.
Ashbourne increased the sum insured under his policy for unspecified valuables by that 
amount.
A year later Mr E says he made a similar call to Ashbourne because hed bought himself a 
watch costing £8,500. He says once  again Ashbourne told him the watch  would be covered 
under the limit for single items and it didnt  increase  the sum insured. 
In August  2018  Mr Es home was burgled and a large amount of jewellery and other items 
stolen. Mr Es insurer didnt pay his claim in full as it said he had under-insured his 
belongings. Mr E feels that this is partly Ashbournes  fault for not increasing  the jewellery 
sum insured when  he bought the second  watch.
Ashbourne said it couldnt find any evidence that Mr E had told it about the second watch  in 
October 2017. It doesnt have recordings of the calls.  It said all it had was a file note to the 
effect that Mr E was happy with the sums insured  and had asked about the single article limit 
in the policy. It said it had confirmed what that limit was before Mr E renewed his policy.
Mr E brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She wasnt  
persuaded that hed asked for his new watch to be added to the policy.  
As Mr E didnt agree,  the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where there is a dispute about  whats 
happened, I have to base  my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened  in the light of the evidence  available  to me.
Mr E says he spoke to Ashbourne  about both new watches. He says he was told on both 
occasions that the items would be covered under the single item limit of £15,000  and 
no further action or adjustment to the policy was needed. 
As Ashbourne doesnt have a recording of the calls, I dont know what  was discussed.  That 
doesnt mean that I believe  Ashbourne  over Mr E. But in the absence  of call recordings, Ive 
looked at the documents that Ashbournes  provided  to see whose account  of what  happened  
they support.
Following the first call Ashbourne  increased  the cover under Mr Es policy  for unspecified 
valuables from £17,000 to £20,000.  When writing  to Mr E about  his cover it noted:
Ref: DRN27845562Additional requirements  advised
Addition of a ladies  [makers name] watch,  unspecified valuables  limit has been increased 
from £17,000 to £20,000.
So it appears an adjustment  to the policy was required.
Following the second  call Ashbourne kept the cover  for valuables the same. When writing to 
Mr E about  his cover it noted:
Additional requirements  advised
You have  requested confirmation of the single article limit for unspecified personal 
possessions and I have  confirmed that the amount is £15,000.
Mr E says hed told Ashbournes  adviser that he already  knew about the single item limit but 
he wanted his watch to be specified on the policy like his wifes watch  had been. But neither  
watch was in fact specified on the policy  only an engagement ring was. I note that on 
receiving confirmation  of his cover  on renewal in 2017, Mr E didnt contact Ashbourne to 
query why it hadnt  increased his cover like it had done the previous year for his wifes 
watch.
Overall I think  the documentation supports Ashbournes account of what  happened on 
renewal rather than Mr Es.
Ive also taken into account the fact that according  to Mr Es insurer the replacement value of 
all Mr Es jewellery & watches  at the time of the burglary was at least  £82,000 and the sum 
insured for jewellery at that time was £32,000,  which ought to have  been  the full replacement 
value. This suggests  to me that there  might  have been some oversight on Mr Es part when 
it came  to notifying Ashbourne  about his jewellery and valuables.
I appreciate that Mr E will be disappointed  with my decision, but from the information Ive 
seen, theres nothing to persuade me that Ashbourne has treated him unfairly or 
unreasonably.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2784556