K820x#14complaint
Mr Vs complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside 
his credit card with Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One). 
background
After Mr V brought his complaint to this service  that the PPI with his credit card had been  
mis-sold, Capital One agreed to pay him some compensation  to settle  the complaint. But 
Mr V wasnt  happy with the amount  of compensation offered. He felt hed paid more for the 
PPI and he was also unhappy with how long it took Capital One to make the payment of the 
compensation to him.
Our adjudicator said some charges may have been caused by the PPI and so Capital One 
should look at refunding  one of the charges  made to the credit card as it was caused by the 
PPI. Capital One didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  on 3 May 2019.  A copy of that 
provisional decision is attached to, and forms part of, this final decision. The full background 
and details of the complaint are set out in that provisional decision. 
Both Mr V and Capital  One have said they received  my provisional decision.  Neither  of them   
has made any comments or provided  any further information in response.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought what  Capital One had paid to Mr V as 
compensation was fair. I set out why I didnt think the charges were  caused by the addition 
of the PPI to the credit  card account  and also why I thought Capital One didnt need  to pay 
and further compensation for delay  in making the payment. 
Neither party has said they disagree  with my findings. Nor have they provided any additional 
information or evidence that would persuade me to change my findings and the outcome of 
my decision.
It follows I can see no reason to change my provisional findings and I confirm that I think 
what Capital One has paid in compensation to Mr V to settle his complaint is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision, a copy of which is 
attached to, and forms part of, this final decision, I think  what Capital One (Europe)  plc has 
paid in compensation to Mr V is fair and Im not telling it to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN28977782Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr V complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy he took out with Capital  One 
(Europe) plc alongside a credit card.
Ref: DRN28977783background
Mr V had taken out a PPI policy alongside his credit card in October 2001. The PPI was cancelled  in 
September 2002. 
In 2018 My V complained to Capital One that the PPI was mis-sold. Capital One didnt agree  that was 
the case  so Mr V brought his complaint  to this service. An adjudicator  recommended the complaint 
regarding the mis-sale should be upheld due to the nature of Mr Vs employment. Capital  One agreed 
to accept the recommendation and said it would  pay compensation.
Capital One worked out Mr V should get £47.22 in total compensation. It said this would repay all the 
premiums Mr V had paid, the interest those  premiums had caused  and also pay some compensation 
for any time Mr V was out of pocket. 
Mr V wasnt happy with the offer as he felt it should be more. He was also unhappy  with the amount of 
time taken to make  the payment of the compensation to him.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at the calculations made by Capital One and said he thought  it should 
have refunded an additional  over-limit charge of £18.00 as part of the compensation. The adjudicator 
did however  consider that Capital  One had acted within expected timescales in making the payment 
of the compensation and had updated the compensatory interest to cover the further time Mr V was 
out of pocket.  So he didnt  think any additional compensation was due for this.
Capital One didnt agree this over-limit  charge  had been  caused by the PPI on the account  and has 
asked for an ombudsman to review the case. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Since this complaint was brought to this service Capital One has agreed to uphold  the original 
complaint that the PPI was mis-sold and pay compensation to Mr V. So in this decision  Im not 
considering the how the PPI was mis-sold. Im only looking at what is fair compensation  to settle the 
complaint about the mis-sale.
When a PPI policy is mis-sold  we expect a business  to put the consumer, as far as possible, in the 
position theyd be in if they hadnt been sold the PPI. This means  refunding all the premiums  charged 
for the PPI and also any interest  and charges  caused directly by the PPI. In addition for any time a 
consumer is out of pocket we expect a business to pay some additional compensatory interest.
Mr V only used this credit card account for some 10 months. Capital One has provided statements 
and information to show  exactly how much he was charged for the PPI premiums  and in total this is 
£21.29. 
Working out the card rate interest that wouldve been paid on these premiums  whilst part of the 
account balance  and also some compensatory interest for any time Mr V was out of pocket  the total 
offer came  to £47.22 after tax.
When a business is calculating the compensation  due for a mis-sold  PPI policy on a credit card it 
does a reconstruction of the account. This gives an indication of what the card balance wouldve  been 
each month  without PPI by removing the premiums  and recalculating the interest that would be 
charged on the account  balance without the PPI. The business  can then take the final balance on the 
reconstructed account from the actual final balance to show how much the customer  has paid for the 
PPI in total.
Ref: DRN28977784In this case our adjudicator has looked at the reconstructed balance  provided by Capital and said in 
one particular  month when an over-limit charge was made, the reconstructed balance was lower  than 
the credit limit. So the adjudicator said the over-limit charge for that month was caused by the PPI and 
Capital One should repay that charge.
I dont agree this is the correct approach to take when considering over-limit charges.  I can see that 
after the first month  Mr V opened the account, it was at or over his agreed credit limit in most months. 
So it seems  his use of the account was to run the balance  at the maximum of the credit limit. I think it 
most likely he would have done the same even if there had been no PPI on the account.  So I think he 
would have been at or over his credit  limit most months even without the PPI.
Also when considering if the addition  of PPI has directly caused an over limit charge  in any particular 
month we accept that a fair approach  to looking at this is to look at the amount of PPI added  to the 
balance that was on the account at the start of the month. If the addition  of the months PPI premium 
when added to the start balance  takes it over the credit limit, then it would be fair to say the PPI 
directly caused the over limit charge.
In this case the PPI added in the month in question was £1.87. The actual balance on the account at 
the start of the month was £191.49. The addition  of the £1.87 would only have brought  this to £193.36 
and the total interest charged that month, including  the interest for the PPI, was £3.07  giving a total of 
£196.43. What took the account over its credit limit of £200.00 was the addition of a late payment fee. 
This had been  charged because Mr V hadnt paid the due amount on time for the previous month. 
And I think Mr V would still have made the late payment even if the PPI hadnt been on his account.
So I dont think the charge  for the PPI in this month being added  to the balance caused the account to 
go over its credit limit. In considering how such charges are caused,  what  is charged in the month for 
the PPI added  to the opening balance  is important in determining if the PPI was the direct cause  of 
the charge. The reconstructed balance  is used to work  out a total cost on the account of the PPI not 
the cause of the over-limit charges.
Ive also considered Mr Vs points about Capital  One not making payment of the compensation within  
four weeks of telling him it would be paid. Capital One has included extra  compensatory interest to the 
date Mr V got the payment  a couple of weeks later, so he has been compensated for being out of 
pocket. And it is normal for a business to take up to eight weeks to make a compensation  payment. It 
follows Im not intending to award any additional compensation for the time it took Capital  One to 
process the payment.
So I think that the compensation Capital One has paid to Mr V for the mis-sold  PPI is fair and based 
on what Ive seen  so far dont think the PPI caused the over credit limit charge, so Capital  One 
doesnt have to refund this.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, and based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I think that Capital  
One (Europe) plc has paid fair compensation to Mr V. I dont think any of the additional  charges on 
the account were directly  caused by the PPI being added to the account.
My findings  so far are subject to the submissions and comments of both parties by the date stated at 
the start of this decision.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2897778