K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (Volkswagen)  unfairly  
charged him for replacing a damaged  tyre. 
background
Mr W says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with Volkswagen to purchase a car in 
2015. He says when he decided to voluntarily terminate his agreement  Volkswagen  charged  
him £163.18 for a new tyre.
Volkswagen says it follows British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA)  
guidelines on wear  and tear to assess damage to cars. In this case  it says that the damage 
to the tyre fell outside the fair wear  and tear guidelines so it was entitled to charge for 
replacing the tyre. It also said that Mr Ws vehicle was inspected  on 26 March 2018 and 
collected on 3 April 2018 during which time Mr W couldve had the tyre replaced
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I found  that:-
-Volkswagen charged Mr W £163.18 for a replacement when he voluntarily terminated 
his agreement
-The terms and conditions of the Hire Purchase Agreement said Mr W would be liable 
for any damage to the car.
-A report on the state of the car said a tyre needed to be replaced as there was a 
gouge in it.
-The findings of the report were supported by a photo showing the damage to the tyre
-Volkswagen was entitled  to charge for a new tyre.
-There was no invoice  or job sheet to confirm the actual cost of replacing the tyre
-Mr W might have been  able to replace the tyre at less cost if he had arranged  this 
himself but he hadnt done so
-The amount  charged didnt  seem unreasonable
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Volkswagen hasnt made any further  submissions for me to consider.
Mr W has told us that he works in the motor industry  and said the tyre was legal. He said he 
used his car for driving instruction and wouldnt have been  able to do so if there  had been a 
defect with the tyre. He is also not happy that Volkswagen  cant provide proof of the cost of 
the repair.
Ref: DRN21611372I have considered the points Mr W has made very carefully. He has said there wasnt a 
problem with the tyre. But unfortunately  that is not what  the report Volkswagen provided 
said. I am persuaded  by the report and accompanying photographic evidence  that there a 
gouge in the tyre.
I agree  its not helpful that Volkswagen cant provide proof of the cost of the repair.  But I 
have found there was damage to address. And I havent found the charge applied 
unreasonable. 
Mr W could have chosen to arrange for the tyre to be replaced himself .This  may have been 
a cheaper option  as he could have shopped  around  for the best price.  As Mr W has now told 
us he works  in the motor industry  I am surprised he didnt chose to do that.
Unfortunately I dont feel that Mr W has given me any new evidence to change  my original  
view.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2161137