K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy in 2001 alongside a flexi loan.
background
Ms R applied for a Flexiloan in February  2001. This worked by allowing her an agreed loan 
limit which she could  draw on whenever she wanted  to. She wouldve agreed a standard  
monthly repayment regardless of how much  was outstanding on the loan at the time. This 
account was closed by HSBC in or before September  2009.
Ms R took out PPI at the same time. The policy cost 8.38p per £1 of Ms Rs monthly 
repayment amount  and wouldve covered her loan repayments for up to 12 months if she 
became too ill to work or was made redundant. 
Ms R thinks  HSBC mis-sold the insurance to her. She says she would not have taken out 
PPI if she was aware of the costs of it at the time.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms Rs complaint. Ms R didnt agree, so her complaint  has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Rs case.
After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I am not upholding Ms Rs 
complaint. Here are my reasons:
 I think Ms R would have been eligible for the PPI policy. Ms R says she had only 
worked for her employer for 2 months at the date of sale but I can see that she would 
still have been  eligible  for the cover provided. 
 Ms R says she applied for her flexiloan in a meeting with HSBC. Ms R has said she 
wouldnt have  taken  out PPI if she was given  more information about  it. HSBC says that 
Ms R completed the paperwork  for the loan and confirmed  in this that she wanted  the 
PPI. HSBC  has given  us samples  that it says demonstrate  what Ms R wouldve been  
asked to complete during the meeting. These  show that Ms R wouldve been asked to 
sign a separate declaration form to confirm  she agreed  to the PPI.
 So I dont know exactly  what happened at the time of sale.  But based on everything 
Ive seen including  the sample  declaration  form, I think  its more  likely HSBC made Ms R 
aware of the PPI. I also think she agreed  to the PPI knowing  she had a choice about 
whether to take it.
 I dont know  if HSBC recommended the PPI to Ms R. But I dont think I need  to make 
a decision about  that as it doesnt  make a difference in this complaint. This is because  
even if it did recommend the PPI, it doesnt  look to me like it was unsuitable for Ms R, 
based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Ref: DRN29972472 Ms R says she would have had to rely on statutory sick pay at the time of sale.  So in 
times where  she was sick, or unemployed, I think the benefits offered by the policy  
would have  been useful to her. The policy seemed  suitable for her needs. I couldnt find 
anything else within the policys terms and conditions that would have made  it an 
unsuitable recommendation  for Ms R like a restrictive or significant term either.  
 From what  Ive seen, I cant say for sure if the costs of the PPI policy would have 
been disclosed  clearly,  but I dont think it would  have made  a difference to Ms R even if 
HSBC had clearly disclosed them. Ms R says she wouldnt have taken out the policy if 
the costs had been clearly disclosed but I think she would  have found value in the policy 
for the reasons I have  already given. 
On balance, I know it will come as a disappointment to Ms R, and I do acknowledge all that 
she has said about her circumstances at the time of sale, but I dont think she has been  mis-
sold PPI by HSBC.
This means  HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms R. But HSBC 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms R because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms R about that. Because HSBC  didnt tell them,  that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  Bank  plc does not have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Ms R.
But HSBC  Bank plc does have to pay back to Ms R any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2997247