K821x#15complaint
Ms M and her daughter complain that British Gas Insurance Limited gave poor service under 
a home  emergency  insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with complaints about insurance companies and 
other regulated financial firms. We cant usually deal with complaints about the sale and 
installation of new gas boilers unless, exceptionally, the boiler is installed free of charge as a 
benefit of an insurance  policy.
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance  company of that name  - and I include 
engineers, call-handlers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
Ms M and her daughter had a British Gas policy to cover their central heating system (as 
well as other things such  as plumbing and electrics). The annual premium  was payable  by 
monthly instalments.
Ms M has medical  conditions  including  a heart  problem. I think that  in late 2017 and early  
2018  her daughter and a school-age child were living with Ms M.
When the boiler wasnt working properly in October 2017, Ms M contacted British Gas. She 
complained that its engineer didnt fix the boiler  but said she needed a new one. 
In February 2018   during  a period of cold weather - the boiler  stopped working. Ms M 
complained that British  Gas still didnt help - or deal properly with her complaint.
British Gas offered  to pay £250.00 and to reimburse  Ms Ms monthly payments (for central 
heating cover) from October 2017  to April 2018  totalling about £162.00. 
our investigators opinion
Our investigator thought that  although it hadnt done what  it was supposed to - British  Gas 
offered fair compensation. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms M 
and her daughter  and to British Gas on 4 January  2019. I summarise my findings:
British Gas repaired the boiler on 30 April 2018.  And  crucially - I didnt think  British  
Gas had given  a satisfactory reason  why it didnt fix it in October 2017 or at least 
March 2018. So I thought  it shouldve  done.
Subject to any further information from Ms M or her daughter or from British Gas,  my 
provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold  this complaint. I intended to direct  
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Ms M and her daughter (jointly) £700.00 insofar as it 
hadnt already  paid that amount.
British Gas didnt  respond  to the provisional decision.
Ref: DRN25987512Ms M agrees with the provisional decision.  She says that British  Gas caused her physical 
health to deteriorate as she had to lift heavy buckets of water  up and down the stairs for 
many weeks. A CT scan showed her hernia repair had ruptured   requiring further surgery, 
she says.
my findings
 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ms M has told us that a company other  than British  Gas had installed the boiler less than ten 
years ago. But the British  Gas records  show  that she had had the same boiler since  at least 
August 2010.  And British Gas had replaced the heat exchanger in December 2013.  
Ms M and her daughter renewed  the policy in February 2017. The policy  said British Gas 
would repair the boiler. But under the heading of Spare Parts, there were terms as follows:
If we cant  get hold of the parts we need  we may need to cancel your agreement 
(or part of it) unless youre eligible for a replacement .
If weve agreed to cover  a boiler  or appliance  but warned you that it might be difficult 
to find spare  parts, well do what we can, within reason, to repair it.
The policy said that if the company couldnt  repair it British Gas would provide a replacement 
boiler if British Gas had installed  the boiler and it was between  seven  and ten years old. But 
British Gas hadnt installed Ms M and her daughters boiler. So they werent entitled to a 
replacement when they called British Gas in early October 2017. 
From its records, I think British Gas found the boiler  safe to use. But it said the main heat 
exchanger was leaking. I can see that British Gas wanted to quote  for a new boiler.
But its checklist didnt indicate any problem with the availability of spare parts.  And Ms M 
and her daughter  couldnt afford  a new boiler.  So I think  they wouldve been keen to have 
the boiler repaired under the policy. 
The fact is that British Gas didnt repair the boiler. And in late November 2017, Ms M 
complained that British  Gas shouldve repaired it. I havent seen any evidence  that she 
complained at that stage about delay  in providing  a quotation  for a new boiler.
British Gas shouldve  sent a final response within eight weeks of the complaint. It has sent 
us a copy of a letter dated late January 2018  saying that it was still investigating.  So I find 
that it didnt send a final response  when it shouldve done. But it did tell Ms M and her 
daughter of their right to bring  the complaint to us.
Ms M and her daughter renewed  the policy again in February 2018.
I think the boiler provided heat and hot water until 27 February 2018 when unfortunately it 
stopped working.  British  Gas visited that day and a few days later when it said the boiler 
wasnt safe to use. It again noted a leaking  heat exchanger. One of its checklists  said not all 
spare parts were available. The other  said they were.
Ms Ms daughter complained that it was taking some  time to get a quotation for a new boiler.  
But I dont think I have  power to make  any findings about that  as it was outside the 
Ref: DRN25987513insurance policy. Ive seen a quotation dated  5 March for about  £1,800.00. But Ms M didnt 
accept the quotation.
The weather  was cold. Ms M and her daughter had to chase British Gas for a response.  Ive 
noted Ms Ms blood pressure test result  on 22 March 2018.
On 26 March Ms M rang British Gas and found  the call-handler rude.  British  Gas hasnt 
provided us with a call recording. But it has said he couldve shown more empathy. So I find 
that there  were shortcomings in the way the call-handler communicated. 
But the call-handler offered £190.00  off the quotation for a new boiler. And he passed  the 
complaint to a technical team which arranged another inspection of the boiler.  
British Gas said it was sending Ms M a cheque for about £162.00 in part-refund  of her 
monthly payments,  plus £250.00 for distress and inconvenience. But that was before one of 
its engineers re-assessed  the boiler  during two visits at the end of April.
From the checklists, I think the engineer replaced the condensate trap and a gas valve. I 
havent seen any record that he replaced  the heat exchanger. One of the two checklists  says 
that not all spare parts  spare parts were available. The other said they were.
British Gas repaired the boiler on 30 April 2018.  And  crucially - I dont think British  Gas has 
given a satisfactory reason why it didnt fix it in October 2017  or at least  March 2018. So I 
think it shouldve done.
Ive thought about how its poor communication and delays have affected Ms M and her 
daughter. 
Ive seen some doctors letters. But they were long after April. I have noted what  she has 
said about her hernia  repair.  But Mrs M hasnt provided any letter or report  from a doctor 
who has treated her. 
So I havent seen  enough medical opinion evidence to show that   by the shortcomings in 
its service  British Gas made Ms Ms medical  conditions worse than they otherwise 
wouldve been. 
Ive seen some of Ms Ms energy bills before and after the problems she had in October  
2017 and February  2018. But her daughters calculations are based  on billed amounts rather 
than actual meter  readings of energy  consumption. And there was very cold weather into 
March. So I wouldve expected increased energy consumption. And Im not persuaded that - 
by the shortcomings in its service  British Gas caused Ms M or her daughter  an identifiable  
increase in energy costs.
Ive thought about what I wouldve awarded as compensation if British  Gas hadnt sent its 
cheque for £162.00  and £250.00. I wouldnt have ordered it to refund instalments of premium 
 because in the end Ms M and her daughter had some benefit  from the insurance  cover.
But I wouldve awarded more compensation for the distress and inconvenience  suffered by 
Ms M and her daughter.
Ms M and her daughter mustve felt that British  Gas ignored their complaint. And they were 
left without central heating  and hot water for two months. That meant they had to heat water 
Ref: DRN25987514in the kitchen and carry it upstairs  to wash. They mustve been  concerned  for the well-being 
of each other and the child.
So I dont  think British  Gas went far enough by its cheque for about £412.00. I find £700.00  
fair and reasonable for distress and inconvenience. Ms M has said she hadnt cashed the 
cheque. So I will direct British Gas to pay Ms M and her daughter  (jointly) £700.00 insofar as 
it hasnt already paid that amount.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Ms M and her daughter (jointly) £700.00 insofar as it 
hasnt already paid that amount.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M and her 
daughter to accept  or reject my decision before  28 February  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2598751