K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs M aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding  
the policy to her card. Mrs M has told us she was led to believe she had to take the policy to 
get the card. I cant know for certain what was said at the time Mrs M applied for her card 
and PPI but FICL has sent us a copy of the available paperwork. Mrs Ms application form 
had a separate section for PPI where the option to take the policy  has been signed for. This 
section didnt have  to be signed for Mrs M to apply  for the card.  The form has also been 
signed separately in agreement  with the selections  that were  made  on it. With this in mind I 
think FICL made it clear  that the PPI was optional and Mrs M chose to have it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI knowing  the other means she had of making  
her repayments which  included sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
Mrs Ms sick pay, and for longer than she would have  received full pay. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN25481252Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.  
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2548125