K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly  charged 
him for excess mileage  under a hire purchase agreement.  
background
In 2014, Mr S acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £33,341. Mr S was required to make 47 monthly 
payments of £399  and there  was a final optional payment of £12,439 if he wished to buy the 
car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr S had the right to terminate the agreement at any time before 
the final payment  was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the car 
and at least half of the total repayable under  the agreement. The agreement set out this was 
£16,670.50.
In 2017, Mr S says that he enquired about part-exchanging the car. However, he says he 
discovered the value  of the car was significantly lower than the outstanding balance on the 
agreement. For this reason, he chose to exercise  his right to terminate  the agreement  early. 
As he hadnt yet paid at least £16,670.50, BMWFS said he needed to pay £955.50. This was 
later reduced to £556.60 as Mr S made a further  monthly repayment  before agreeing  to the 
termination. After Mr S handed the car back, BMWFS  later charged him a further  £2,667.25 
as he had exceeded the mileage allowance on the agreement.  
The agreement set out that Mr S had an annual mileage allowance  of 8,000 and a total 
mileage allowance  of 32,000. It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS  could 
charge him 8.4 pence for every mile that he exceeded the allowance  by. It said that in the 
event he terminated  the agreement early,  the mileage allowance  would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire. 
Mr S didnt think this charge was fair. He said that the termination section of the agreement 
didnt state that BMWFS could charge anything more than £16,670.50.  He said the only 
reason he terminated  the agreement was because the car was in negative  equity and he 
was unable to part-exchange it. 
He said that BMWFS had calculated the projected  value of the car incorrectly when it had 
initially set up the agreement. A new model was released in early  2017 and he says this 
caused the value of the car he had to depreciate significantly. He said it therefore wasnt 
correct to say the additional mileage hed covered had caused  such a significant 
depreciation of the cars value. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that BMWFS 
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement  and the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He also found  that the 
terms of the agreement were clear  around  the possibility of an excess mileage charge being  
payable on voluntary termination.
In summary,  he said:
Ref: DRN26323082S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early  and S100  sets out what liabilities a consumer  has on termination.  
In brief,  on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least  half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total  price is defined by S189 CCA as the total sum payable  under 
the hire purchase  agreement. It does not include charges  for items that are payable 
as compensation  for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges for 
breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities  that the consumer accrued prior to termination are not 
to be affected by the termination. 
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage  charges  will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr S agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before  termination  and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance  is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage  charges must therefore be included in 
the total price  of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted  towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mr S accrued liability under S100 therefore  included 
paying an additional amount of £2,667.50.
The credit  agreement  set out clearly  the terms surrounding when excess  mileage 
would be charged,  when  it would  accrue  and how much it would cost. 
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement  if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded. 
The investigator concluded that when  considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, he was satisfied  it was made  clear and not misleading  about when an excess  
mileage charge could  be applied  and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it was 
fair and reasonable for BMWFS  to charge  the additional amount. 
Mr S disagreed and said the charge wasnt fair. He said that BMWFS were reporting a 
default on his credit file for non-payment of the excess  mileage charge. He didnt think this 
was fair given he had made all the payments under the agreement  on time. He said there 
was plenty of case  law where it has been found a finance company has no legal right to 
claim excess mileage  charges from a customer.  
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement  
allowed Mr S use of the car for the duration of the agreement. He also had the option to 
purchase the car outright  at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£12,439. While Mr S was entitled  to use the car, that use was subject to certain conditions, 
such as maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum mileage each 
year and overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement  set out what would 
happen should Mr S not meet those requirements.
Mr S exercised his right to voluntarily terminate  the agreement. In some  instances, voluntary 
termination allows the hirer to simply hand  back the car without having to pay anything more.  
But this is dependant on, amongst other  things, how much  has been paid to the agreement, 
Ref: DRN26323083whether there are arrears to be paid,  the condition of the car and whether any excess 
mileage or other charges  are due. 
In this case Mr S accepts that he was required to pay £16,670.50 to voluntary terminate the 
agreement. But he disputes the excess mileage charge of £2,667.50 that has been added  
on top of this figure. 
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have  to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of 
Mr S hire purchase agreement  also refers  to the liability  that is due on termination  and in his 
case, that was £16,670.50.  Various sections of the agreement  Mr S had with BMWFS  also 
referred to the liability on early termination,  including where excess  mileage, damage 
charges or other charges may increase  the final liability.
I note that Mr S says there is case law which supports his view that lenders arent legally 
entitled to charge for exceeding  a mileage allowance. However, Mr S hasnt referred  to any 
specific cases and Im not aware of any legal precedent that outright prohibits it. While  some 
consumers may have had success in raising  this issue  through the courts,  the court  will have 
considered the specific circumstances of those individual cases, including the specific terms 
of the agreements entered into and what that means  in relation to liability  under S99 and 
S100. 
This is because whether  or not it is fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to 
every case,  as it will depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered  into. In 
other words, what I have to decide is, has the agreement been constructed in a way as to 
allow the charging for excess mileage without contravening what  is set out in the CCA 
regarding voluntary termination? In Mr S specific case, I think  it has. Ill explain why. 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities  which accrue  prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means  is that Mr S is liable to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement,  and that these 
charges are in addition  to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr S hire purchase  agreement has a section headed:  Excess  mileage 
charges for depreciation. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what  charges will 
apply if that mileage is exceeded.  It says that if the agreement is terminated  early the 
mileage allowance  will be pro-rated to the reduced period of hire and that your  obligation to 
pay any excess mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination . Im satisfied 
Mr S agreement is worded clearly  in setting out when  excess  mileage charges accrue. 
The agreement also has a sectioned headed  Termination: your rights. This section contains  
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary  
sets out that so long as Mr S has paid at least half the total amount payable under the 
agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about  whether this conflicts  with 
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those  that explain charges for exceeding  
the mileage might apply.  
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think  the agreement  is 
either unclear or misleading concerning  the charges for excess  mileage. I think  it explains 
that the excess mileage  charge can be applied in addition to other  charges for voluntary  
termination. I dont  therefore consider that the way this specific  agreement  has been 
constructed has prejudiced Mr S.  
Ref: DRN26323084Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows  that Mr S is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent  with what  is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA.  
Mr S says that BMWFS is unfairly reporting  arrears on his credit file in relation to his 
agreement. However,  as Mr S hasnt paid all the sums which fell due when he terminated 
the agreement  early, I cant reasonably say that what BMWFS is reporting is either 
inaccurate, unfair or unreasonable. 
Lastly, I understand hes unhappy that the car depreciated  in value more significantly than 
he had expected and that this prevented him from part-exchanging the car. While I accept 
its likely  a new model being released  might  have impacted the value of older  models, there 
are a number of factors that can influence the value of a car over time. 
The final optional payment or balloon payment on Mr S agreement is possibly set at what 
BMWFS considers the likely value of the car would  be when Mr S reaches the end of the 
hire purchase agreement.  It is a prediction and is not a guaranteed value for what Mr S will 
get if he chooses to part-exchange the car at the end. Further,  Mr S was only around three 
quarters of the way through the agreement when he enquired about part-exchanging  the car. 
Therefore, the value  that BMWFS predicted  in 2014 wasnt  relevant  to when Mr S had 
enquired about  part exchange. 
Given that Mr S still had around a years worth  of rentals to pay off from the agreement  
before he reached  the end, this will have impacted the value the car needed to sell for in 
order for Mr S to settle the finance.  Cars  generally depreciate at different rates, meaning the 
depreciation of the car isnt necessarily at the same rate at which  Mr S was making  the 
monthly repayments. Had Mr S kept the car and enquired  about  part-exchanging it at the 
end of the agreement, its quite possible the valuation would have been  similar to what 
BMWFS had originally predicted.
Overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2021.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2632308