K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the settlement offered  by esure Insurance Limited for a 
contents claim made through their property insurance.
All references to esure include their agents.
background
In March 2018, Mr and Mrs C registered  a claim  with esure for an escape of water in their 
garage. This included a claim for the damaged contents, which was caused by both the 
escape of water and the ceiling collapsing.
Esure arranged for a building surveyor to attend the property in regards to the ceiling 
damage. Mr and Mrs C then contacted esure  for more information  on how to claim for their 
contents. Esure said they needed to provide a list of the damaged  items along  with photos, 
proof of purchase and replacement quotes.
Mr and Mrs C sent the list of damaged items  to esure. Due to the total value of the claim, 
esure appointed a loss adjuster to validate  the items being  claimed  for.
The loss adjuster tried to arrange an appointment with Mr and Mrs C and left a message.   
Mr and Mrs C returned the message two weeks later. They  said the items  being claimed for 
had already been disposed of, so there wasnt anything left for the loss adjuster to confirm. 
As a result, esure didnt  settle the claim.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to esure.  Esure then said it would try to validate Mr and Mrs Cs 
claim using  the photographs and evidence they provided. It offered a partial  settlement of the 
claim and £100  for not investigating their concerns properly.
Mr and Mrs C rejected  esures offer of settlement and brought the complaint to our service. 
They said theyd never claimed before. In addition,  they hadnt been told they needed to 
keep the items for inspection  even  after theyd discussed hiring a skip with esure.
The complaint was referred  to me and on 19 July 2019, I set out in my provisional decision 
why I felt esure should settle Mr and Mrs Cs claim.  Ive repeated an extract below:
Ive first checked the terms and conditions for Mr and Mrs Cs policy.  Under the section How 
to make a claim, it states, please  keep  any damaged items for inspection   do not dispose 
of any items.  And under  the General Conditions that apply when  making a claim, it says,
You must not dispose of any damaged  property  without Our permission.
So I am satisfied there are policy terms which explain  what  needs  to happen in the event of
a claim being made. But I think  the issue here is whether  esure should have made              
Mr and Mrs C aware  of these terms when they raised the claim.
I dont think these terms stand out particularly compared to other policy terms in the booklet. 
But they are significant terms for a claim involving damaged contents. So, as the insurer and 
expert in the field, I think esure should have  known the significance  of these terms in the 
circumstances of this claim.  Therefore, it should have made Mr and Mrs C aware during the 
claim they needed to keep hold of any damaged items for possible  inspection.
Ref: DRN29755032The next issue to determine is whether esure did make Mr and Mrs C aware of this term 
after making the claim.
To answer  this question  Ive considered the contact notes provided by esure,  the evidence  of 
photographs and receipts provided by Mr and Mrs C, and the overall timeline of events. And 
having looked at everything, I do think esure needed to be more proactive at the start of the 
claim in highlighting  this term to Mr and Mrs C.
I say this because  not only have Mr and Mrs C told us theyd never claimed before, I can see 
they made a number  of requests to esure about  how to go about claiming for their contents.
Esure initially referred Mr and Mrs C back to the buildings surveyor,  and then told
Mr and Mrs C they needed to provide photos,  proof of purchase  and replacement quotes.
I appreciate at this stage  esure didnt know the value of the claim being submitted. But
Mr and Mrs C did ask esure if they could get a skip for waste. And at this point esure could 
have told Mr and Mrs C not to dispose of the damaged items in case they needed to be 
inspected. I cant  see that it did this.
Ive seen the list of damaged items and I can see Mr and Mrs C have included the cost of 
hiring a skip in the inventory. So to me, when Mr and Mrs C submitted the quote it was 
another opportunity for esure to tell them not to dispose of the items, particularly as esure 
decided to refer the claim  to a loss adjuster.
Esure says the loss adjuster tried to contact  Mr and Mrs C to arrange an appointment on
31 March and left a message. It says its position has been prejudiced because Mr and Mrs C 
didnt return the message  for two weeks, and disposed  of the items in the meantime without 
its permission. I havent seen any firm evidence that esure told Mr and Mrs C they had 
referred the claim to a loss adjuster, or the reason for the referral.  And in my opinion,
Mr and Mrs C would  have kept hold of the items  if theyd known the reason for the loss 
adjusters call was to come and inspect the items.
So as I think esure  shouldve been more  pro-active in telling Mr and Mrs C not to dispose of 
the items  I think it should accept the remainder  of the claim. As the outstanding  items have 
now been disposed  of, it wont be possible for esure to validate them. But Mr and Mrs C 
have provided  a number of photos that show  the damage caused by the water and falling 
ceiling. From what I can see, this looks substantial. For example, the photo of the tricycle, 
which Mr and Mrs C are claiming  for, clearly  shows  the front wheel and spoke bent out of 
position compared to the frame of the bike. So I think  esure  should  reassess  the remaining 
items on Mr and Mrs Cs list and take it at face value.
In order to put Mr and Mrs C back in a similar  position to what  they wouldve been in had 
they kept the items for inspection, I think esure should treat all the remaining items as 
beyond economical  repair. And it should settle these items against the remaining terms of Mr 
and Mrs Cs policy.
Ive also thought about the trouble and upset caused  to Mr and Mrs C by having  part of their 
claim declined.  I think  that if esure  had been  clearer and told Mr and Mrs C to keep the 
items, then it wouldve avoided a lot of upset and inconvenience to them. Having considered  
the impact to Mr and Mrs C here,  I think  esure should pay a further  £250  for the trouble and 
upset caused.  
Ref: DRN29755033developments
Mr and Mrs C accepted  my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
Esure rejected my decision.  In summary, it said:
It didnt think it should pay the remainder of the claim, or further compensation
Mr C initially  claimed he was told to dispose of the contents, and there wasnt any 
possible way it wouldve known Mr and Mrs C intended to dispose of the contents in 
the skip
There are differences between the photos  provided by Mr and Mrs C and the building  
surveyor regarding the items being claimed for
It did tell Mr and Mrs C it had appointed a loss adjuster and provided a copy  of this 
email
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ill be upholding this 
complaint. And Ill explain why esures response hasnt changed my mind about what  Ive 
seen.
Esure says Mr C initially claimed he was told to dispose of the contents in the skip. Mr C 
says he checked  with esure a number of times what to do with the damaged  items. Ive also 
seen some call notes  from esure  where  Mr C queries  the cost of the skip hire. But I havent 
seen any firm evidence, such as call recordings,  which would verify exactly what happened  
in the conversations  between Mr C and esure.  So Ive thought about what I have seen  again,  
and what I think most  likely happened.  
I agree  that its unlikely  esure knew that Mr and Mrs C were planning to dispose  of the items. 
But my opinion remains that if esure had been more proactive  in its position as the insurer 
and expert, it should have  highlighted the significant  terms to Mr and Mrs C which related to 
their claim, in order to treat them fairly. And I think  Mr and Mrs C would have acted on that 
information and kept hold of the damaged items for inspection. So I am not going to change  
my decision  on this point.
In regards to the differences in photos  provided  by Mr and Mrs C and the building  surveyor,   
I can only comment on the evidence  I have seen - which  is the photos provided  by                 
Mr and Mrs C to support their claim. Our investigator  asked for a copy  of the report from the 
buildings surveyor, but this wasnt provided by esure. So having  reviewed the photos  by Mr 
and Mrs C again, I am persuaded the escape of water caused damage to a number of items 
in the garage. And in the absence  of any other  evidence, esure  should  settle  the remaining 
items on Mr and Mrs Cs list and take it at face value.
I acknowledge esures email to Mr and Mrs C, which told them  the claim was being referred 
to a loss adjuster. But I dont think it explains why the claim has been referred, specifically 
what role the loss adjuster has in the claim,  or that they should keep hold of any damaged 
items for inspection. The content of the email is generic, and I dont think it is sufficient 
evidence to overturn  my initial findings.  So in conclusion  I still think  Mr and Mrs C would 
have kept hold of the items  if theyd  known the reason  for the referral  was so the loss 
adjuster could come and inspect them.
Ref: DRN29755034Esure hasnt commented specifically on why it feels it shouldnt pay any further 
compensation to Mr and Mrs C. Having considered everything again, I still feel an additional 
£250 is fair for the trouble and upset  caused  and for the same  reasons as set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require esure Insurance Limited to:
Settle Mr and Mrs Cs claim for the outstanding  items listed  in line with the remaining 
terms of their policy. Esure  should assume  that the remaining items are beyond 
economical repair
Pay Mr and Mrs C a further £250 for the trouble and upset caused
Esure Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr and Mrs C accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 September 2019.
Dan Prevett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2975503