K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies for a mortgage. 
Mrs N has complained on behalf of herself  and the estate of the late Mr N. She says Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
In 1987, Mr N took out a mortgage  with Halifax, along  with a PPI policy,  in his sole name.
In 1991, Mr and Mrs N replaced this with a joint mortgage, and replaced the PPI policy too. 
Its not clear whether  the policy covered one or both of them.
Mr and Mrs N paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt  attract interest. 
It provided cover in case one or both of the people covered was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Having done that, I have  not found that these two policies  were mis-sold  Ill explain why.
These sales were around three decades ago and the accounts  involved have long since  
closed. So its understandable that neither side have the original documents  from the time. 
Indeed, under data protection rules Halifax were  required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Ns data 
rather than hold onto it for too long. Mrs N doesnt remember buying  PPI, and I also think 
thats understandable  given the years that passed,  and since buying insurance is not often 
memorable. Mrs N explained that she and Mr N didnt claim when they could have, though  
I have nothing to show whether  they claimed  or not. Ive thought carefully  about  whats most 
likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have misled  Mr or Mrs N into having  
PPI. But I have no evidence which shows thats  what it did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with Halifaxs sales  process from the time. And these sales were too long ago for 
me to reasonably expect Halifax to be able to produce original documents to defend  itself 
now. So I dont have  a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax  misled Mr or Mrs N. I think 
its more likely that it followed  a relatively  standard sales process, offering a choice about  
buying PPI, and that Mr and Mrs N chose it  though  I can certainly  understand why Mrs N 
may no longer  remember buying a policy after so long.
Ref: DRN27076002Its not clear whether  Halifax  recommended  the PPI here, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mrs N, Ive assumed it did both 
occasions. That means Halifax had to check each  policy was right for Mr N, and later Mr and 
Mrs N  and based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  it was. For 
example, it looks like Mr N, and later Mr and Mrs N, were eligible for the cover and werent 
affected by any of its main  exclusions or limitations.
While Mr and Mrs N were  both entitled to benefits  through work, the PPI offered them more 
comprehensive cover, and wouldve  paid out on top of those  benefits.  I also understand their 
family mightve been happy to help,  but there was always the chance theyd be unable  to 
help when needed. And the PPI meant Mr and Mrs N wouldnt have to ask their family to 
cover their mortgage if they fell on difficult times. Its worth  bearing in mind that the mortgage 
was a significant, long-term  commitment,  and if Mr and Mrs N had got behind on the 
payments they couldve lost their home.  Overall, it looks like the PPI couldve been  useful for 
them in protecting their home and providing  some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs N about  PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr and Mrs N werent  affected by any of the 
main things the PPI didnt  cover, and it couldve been useful for them in case something  
went wrong. The policies  were competitively priced given how much  they would pay out in a 
claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly  basis, so Mr or Mrs N could cancel it at any 
time without  a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely  to have put 
them off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mrs N mentioned that they couldve claimed on the PPI, but didnt.  The complaint 
thats been brought to me was about  the sale of the policies rather  than what  happened 
after. But if Mr or Mrs N were eligible to claim, but didnt, then Mrs N may still be able to 
make a back-dated  claim with Halifax. She may also be able to check with Halifax whether 
the second policys cost was properly  adjusted after Mr N passed away, as from the 
correspondence shes sent us it looks like the PPI carried on until 2011.  If Mrs N would like 
to do that, she should  get back in touch with Halifax in the first instance. Then if needed,  
Mrs N may be able to come back to our service for our help as a separate case.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint about the sale of the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs N to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November  2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2707600