K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr C took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage  in 1999. He paid a monthly  amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Cs case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint - and Ill explain why.
The mortgage was applied for and the policy sold to Mr C during  a meeting in June 1999.  
Halifax has been able to give us a copy of the mortgage application  form and the MPPI 
application.
In the mortgage  application form there  is a section headed, Accident, Sickness  and 
Unemployment Insurance.  Within this section is a statement that begins,  We recommend 
that you consider  our Mortgage Repayments Insurance Scheme.  Mr Cs signature appears 
next to the words Yes. I would like to take advantage of Mortgage Repayments  Insurance . 
There is nothing on the form that suggests the MPPI had to be taken in order  for the 
mortgage application to be accepted. And the wording that Halifax  recommends the policy  
suggests that Mr C couldve declined the recommendation.
Mr C also completed a separate MPPI  application form. The form states  By completing  this 
application form we will be able to decide if you are eligible for Mortgage Repayments  
Insurance 
Mr C has told us the MPPI was presented to him as being a required  in order to have the 
mortgage approved.  I cant  be certain  of what was said during the course of Mr Cs meeting, 
it may be the Halifax adviser  told Mr C he should  take out the policy, but thats different to 
saying he had to. Having looked at the paperwork available, I think  its most likely he was 
made aware  the MPPI  was optional and that he chose to take it out. Although after so many  
years I can understand  why he might not recall this.
Halifax says its representative  wouldve recommended the MPPI to Mr C. And as the sale 
took place during a meeting I think its likely  they did. This means Halifax had a duty to take 
Ref: DRN22049292reasonable steps to make  sure the policy was right for Mr C. And I think it was based on 
what Mr C has told us about his circumstances at the time he bought  the cover. I say this for 
the following  reasons:
Mr C was employed and wouldve been  eligible for the cover  the policy gave him.
Mr C says he wouldve received sick pay from his employer for around six months if 
he couldnt work due to sickness or an accident.  But if Mr C made a successful claim 
on this policy it couldve  covered the mortgage  payments for up to 24 months  much  
longer than his employer sick pay. And although  Mr C may have received some  
redundancy pay if he lost his job, the benefit from the policy would mean he could 
use that redundancy pay for other living costs.
Mr C was taking out a new mortgage in his sole name. The mortgage  was secured 
on his home. So, considering the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on 
the mortgage, I think this policy couldve been  useful  to Mr C if things  went  wrong.
Mr C has told us he had substantial savings  he could rely on. Mr C has told us he 
had received an inheritance, part of which was used to pay a deposit on the property.  
Mr C has told us he couldve bought the property outright without a mortgage but 
instead he invested the rest of the inheritance. Ive thought about this and the fact    
Mr C chose to take out a mortgage instead of using  the inheritance suggests he was 
keen to keep his investments intact.  The MPPI would mean he wouldnt have to use 
his investments to pay the mortgage  if he couldnt work.
And it doesnt  look like Mr C wouldve been caught by any of the other main 
exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made  it difficult  to 
make a successful  claim.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the policy was unaffordable or that the benefit was 
insufficient to meet  his monthly  mortgage  repayments.
I dont know how much information Mr C was given about the policy during the meeting. So it 
is possible he couldve been given clearer or more thorough  information.  Ive thought about 
whether this wouldve made a difference and caused Mr C to act differently and decline  the 
policy. But from what Ive seen Mr C was interested in this type of cover, the policy seems to 
have been right for him and it looks  like it was affordable.  So taking everything into account I 
dont think Mr C wouldve turned down the policy if hed been given any clearer  information  
about it.
In summary  I think the policy was most  likely presented as being optional.  I think  it was a 
suitable recommendation and even if Halifax had given Mr C the clear information it should  
have, I still think Mr C wouldve bought it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. And I make no award  
against Bank of Scotland plc
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Ref: DRN22049293Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2204929