K822xcomplaint
Mr E is unhappy that MCE  Insurance Company Limited (MCE)  has declined his claim  and
voided his insurance policy following the theft of his motorcycle.
background 
In February 2019  Mr Es motorcycle  was unfortunately stolen, so he made  a claim to MCE.
During investigation into the claim, MCE discovered Mr Es motorcycle was normally 
garaged away  from his home address.  But when  taking  out the policy,  Mr E had told MCE 
that it was usually garaged at home.
MCE said Mr E had deliberately or recklessly misrepresented where the motorcycle was 
kept. So they voided the policy, kept the premiums and declined  the claim.
Mr E complained to MCE who said the claim and voidance decision was correct.  As Mr E 
was unhappy  with the answer from MCE, he approached this service to investigate.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that Mr E hadnt told MCE where  the 
motorcycle would be kept, so he agreed with the approach  they had taken.
Mr E disagreed with our investigator  and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view of the complaint, I decided  to issue  a 
provisional decision before I make  my final decision.  This allowed  both parties to comment 
on my thinking before  I make my final decision  which is the Financial Ombudsmans 
Services last word  on the case.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer takes out an insurance policy they are asked  a number of 
questions by the insurer. If the answers  later turn out to be incorrect  when the 
consumer tries to make a claim, the insurer has a number of remedies that it can 
apply depending on the circumstances.
This is in line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA).
If the misrepresentation is deliberate  or reckless, the insurer  is able to void the policy  
(treat it as if it never existed), refuse  any claims,  and retain the premium paid for the 
policy.
If the misrepresentation is careless  the insurer can do the following:
If they wouldnt have  provided the insurance on any terms, they can void the 
policy and refuse  all claims, but they need to return the premium.
Ref: DRN28121552If they would  have provided  the insurance  but on different terms, they can 
retrospectively apply  those terms.
If the insurer would have provided  a policy, but charged a higher  premium, they 
may reduce  the claim proportionately
MCE has said Mr E has deliberately or recklessly misrepresented where the 
motorcycle was kept, so they have voided the policy and retained the premium.
Whilst this is the correct remedy under CIDRA  for deliberate or reckless  
misrepresentation, I dont  think  the approach MCE has taken here is fair and Ill 
explain why.
MCE has based their decision that Mr E has acted deliberately or recklessly on the 
fact that the postcode where the motorcycle was kept was different to Mr Es home 
address. In my view this isnt enough to show its deliberate  or reckless or that this is 
the right remedy under  CIDRA.
Mr E has said when  running the quote initially, he put that the bike was kept on the 
road at his home address.  The quote was higher than he expected. As he already 
had a garage he could use to keep  the bike in, belonging to a friend who lived 
elsewhere, he amended  the quote  to reflect  the bike being kept in a garage.
Ive run the online sales journey on the aggregator website myself. On page one 
when entering  the address, it asks if the vehicle is kept at that address overnight. It 
isnt until page  three  that it asks where  the bike is kept, for example on the road or in 
a garage. But page  three makes no reference  to the address.
Whilst Mr E amended page  three  and the storage type, he should  also have gone 
back to page one, as this is where  it gives the option to note a different postcode.
I dont think this would be considered reckless.  Its very unlikely Mr E reached page 3 
and entered the details there, thought  they might not tally with the details  already  
entered but recklessly went ahead without checking.
So I need to consider if its deliberate,  or careless.  If its careless,  the remedy  
available under CIDRA is different to the approach MCE  has taken as outlined  
above.
Mr E has explained why the bike was outside  his home  at the time it was stolen. This 
is because he had a leg injury at the time,  and as he had an early  start, the bike was 
kept outside his home  on the night  of the theft. He says it would normally be kept in 
the garage.
Mr E has provided confirmation from the owner  of the garage  in question that he had 
use of this, and a photo of the bike in the garage, which  must  have been taken before 
the theft occurred.  So I think on balance Mr E always  intended  to keep the bike in the 
garage.
Ref: DRN28121553Its not in dispute  Mr E should have gone  back to page one of the quote in order  to 
change the postcode for where  the bike was kept. But I dont  think  MCE has shown 
Mr E deliberately misrepresented the risk by choosing not to go back  to amend the 
address. I think this was careless. So, I dont think MCE can rely on the remedy  for 
deliberate misrepresentation under CIDRA by voiding the policy or keeping the 
premium.
As MCE  allows a different  postcode  in which to keep the motorcycle,  under the 
CIDRA remedies it is likely  they would have provided a policy. But it isnt clear at this 
stage whether there would be a difference in premium for this.
If MCE wouldnt have charged any extra (or the premium would have been lower), 
then they should deal with the claim in full  subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions.
But if MCE can show that it would  have charged  more had the storage address been  
correct, then it is entitled to proportionately settle the claim.  With either  settlement 8% 
interest should also be added from the date of loss in line with our standard  
approach.
However, MCE also need to take into account  that Mr E has been  maintaining  his 
finance payments  for the bike throughout.  So this needs to be taken into account with 
the settlement.  As the claim  should have been settled much sooner, MCE should  
also refund  the additional  finance payments Mr E has made  since  this point, with 8% 
interest added  from date of payment.
I have based the above  on what I think the likely remedy is under the careless 
misrepresentation route of CIDRA. But if MCE dispute this and they believe 
something else would have happened if Mr E had provided the correct  details then 
they need to demonstrate this in response to this provisional decision.
In addition to the above,  MCE should  also compensate Mr E £200  for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused.
Mr E has said that his policy says:
If a theft or attempted theft of your motorcycle happens within the proximity  of your 
home address or garaging address when your motorcycle  is not locked in a locked 
garage or locked building,  we will double the theft excess. There  will also be an 
Additional Premium of £110.
And he thinks this should be the approach taken. I dont think  this applies here. This 
is because Mr E intended to insure the bike at a garage away  from his home. And if 
this had been correctly listed, the bike was taken from outside his home,  which isnt 
in close proximity to the garage.  Therefore, this wouldnt apply.
On a final note,  in their final response, MCE have  referred to a final decision issued 
by this service which they say agrees  with their approach. However as MCE should 
be aware, each case brought to this service  is considered on its own merits. Each  
case has a specific background to it, and the case MCE  is referring to isnt against 
them so they wont actually be aware  of the specifics.
Ref: DRN28121554I can see from the decision referred  to that this is a completely  different scenario  and 
has no relevance here or in the circumstances  of Mr Es claim.  So this doesnt  
support MCEs decision  in relation to the voidance.
On that basis, I was minded to uphold Mr Es complaint and direct MCE to consider the 
CIDRA remedies for careless misrepresentation and pay Mr E compensation.
the responses to my provisional  decision 
MCE responded to my provisional decision and said they still thought  the misrepresentation 
by Mr E was deliberate,  in order for him to obtain a cheaper premium. 
They also referred  to the online sales process and questioned the sequence of events I 
noted in my provisional decision. MCE said different questions were asked at different 
points.
MCE also said that if they had been  aware  the bike was kept at an alternate  address, they 
wouldnt have offered cover.
Mr E initially  responded  saying there  wasnt anything he wanted  to add in response to the 
provisional decision. But when MCE provided their response, our investigator  made  Mr E 
aware that they wouldnt have offered cover.
Mr E later responded saying he feels the garage and location made his bike more secure, so 
he questioned  why MCE wouldnt offer this cover. He also asked why it would give the option 
to input an alternate address if they dont offer that cover.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive thought  again  about the 
conclusions I came to in my provisional  decision.
Having done so, I havent changed my mind  that the misrepresentation was careless.  But I 
now know the relevant  remedy  for this in line with CIDRA. I have also reconsidered my view 
on compensation.
When I visited the price comparison website Mr E used when writing my provisional 
decision, the events and sales  process were that outlined previously.  On page one when 
entering the address, it asked if the bike was kept at that address overnight,  and page three 
made no reference to the address when asking about the type of storage.
Its disappointing that MCE is now questioning this. I say its disappointing  because the 
online sales  journey I followed  is the same that MCE followed  when  sending  its final 
response letter, which included screenshots of page one as Ive mentioned above. The 
screenshots in their initial submissions to this service also mirror this. Both of which differ  to 
those MCE are now referring to in response  to the provisional decision.
The online sales  journey  MCE is now referring  to is the current  sales  journey. This has 
changed since I issued  my provisional decision,  and before that, when MCE issued its final 
response and submissions to this service. Therefore, the current journey isnt relevant.
Ref: DRN28121555Therefore, my view of the sales journey, and that the misrepresentation was careless, 
remains as outlined in my provisional decision  and for the same reasons. 
So I now need to consider  what the appropriate remedy for careless  misrepresentation is 
under CIDRA. I said in my provisional decision  that if MCE would have offered cover,  but at 
a higher premium,  then it should settle  the claim proportionately.
But MCE has since evidenced  that it wouldnt have offered cover, had it been aware the 
garaging address was away from Mr Es home.
So, the remedy for this under CIDRA  is that MCE can void the policy and refuse  all claims,  
but it must  return the premium to Mr E. At the moment MCE has kept the premium, but that 
isnt a remedy for careless misrepresentation.
I understand that Mr E is unhappy  with this, as his bike has been stolen and his claim isnt 
being paid. But I must  follow the remedies under CIDRA, and this is clear what  should  
happen if MCE wouldnt have offered  a policy.
I said in my provisional decision that I was minded to recommend MCE also pay £200 
compensation. But this was on the basis that it had incorrectly declined  the claim,  so should 
have paid this earlier. But the position has now changed as MCE would never have offered 
cover, so even if it had correctly followed the careless rather  the deliberate  remedy,  it hasnt 
resulted in Mr E being in a different position  in relation to the claim. So I cant say £200 
compensation is reasonable in the circumstances.
Instead, MCE should have followed the careless remedies process earlier  and refunded the 
premium. So, 8% interest should be added to the refund in line with our usual approach.
I also note Mr Es comments  that he feels that the location and security of the garage was 
more than adequate and in a lower crime risk area.  Whilst this may be the case,  it is up to 
MCE what risk they choose  to cover, and unfortunately this isnt one of them.
Mr E has also questioned why MCE offer the option to specify a different location if they 
dont offer that cover. But the price comparison website will be used  by a number of insurers  
and whilst MCE doesnt offer that cover, other  insurers  may do.
Whilst I sympathise with Mr Es position,  I still need to take into account  the remedies under 
CIDRA for careless misrepresentation. And as MCE wouldnt have offered a policy, the 
remedy is that it should refund the premium  to Mr E.
Ref: DRN28121556my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  decision and above, I uphold Mr Es complaint in 
part.
MCE Insurance Company Limited  can void the policy and refuse the claim but they must 
return Mr Es premium  with 8% interest added.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2812155