K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Financial Administration Services Limited  (trading as Fidelity) blocked 
his share  dealing account and prevented him trading without  warning.
background
Mr M, a citizen of the USA, initially invested  with Fidelity in 1997. In 2011  new regulations 
came into force which required Fidelity to identify customers with US nationality and restrict 
or control  investments made by them. In short, Fidelity wasnt  permitted to allow  investment 
from US persons into funds which werent or couldnt be distributed or sold in the USA. As 
this accounted  for the majority of the investments it had on its platform, Fidelity  has said this 
essentially meant it didnt  offer its services to US persons. 
Fidelity didnt initially identify that Mr M was a US citizen, and so for a number of years  he 
was permitted use of the platform  when he otherwise wouldnt have been.  
In January 2019 Mr M called Fidelity to complain that he had been unable to execute a 
particular trade. It was at this point that Fidelity  identified Mr M as a US person and thats 
why his trading  was blocked. When he raised the issue  he was told that his nationality meant 
that Fidelity was no longer able to offer certain  services to him  including trading. Mr M 
complained. 
Fidelity looked into Mr Ms complaint. It acknowledged that there  had been  a number of 
opportunities between 2011  and 2019 when  it ought to have picked up on the fact that as a 
result of being a US person it could not allow  him to trade on its platform.  It acknowledged  
that it facilitated Mr Ms transfer of investments from a different provider in November 2018 
which it otherwise wouldnt have allowed. However,  it did say that its terms were clear  and 
that by accepting the terms of service, Mr M was essentially  warranting that he was not a US 
person. Fidelity offered Mr M compensation. In short, this included  paying 8% interest on the 
cash which had been transferred from the other provider  (not all the investments were able 
to be transferred in specie), a free transfer  of his investments  to another provider and £400 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused to him. As an alternative to 8%, it otherwise 
offered to backdate any investments sold in November 2018  after the transfer, so that Mr M 
wasnt disadvantaged by any movements in the market since  then. 
Mr M didnt  agree and referred his complaint to this service.  One of our investigators looked 
into his complaint. Broadly, she agreed  that Fidelity  had made  mistakes  and ought  to put 
things right. But she considered that its offer to Mr M was fair and reasonable and would put 
him in the position he wouldve been  in but for Fidelitys error. 
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. He said:
The investigator had noted that Mr M had use of the account for a number of years 
when he otherwise wouldnt have. He said he acknowledged that this was true, but 
equally said that as a commercial organisation Fidelity also collected  substantial 
fees during the same  period and therefore also benefited.
Fidelity encouraged Mr M to transfer the shares  he held in an ISA with a different 
provider  including by offering to pay the cost of the in specie  transfers. He said it 
wasnt possible to transfer a number of shares as they were not on Fidelitys platform  
Ref: DRN29954052and so these had to be sold as cash.  Mr M said that the account manager at the 
other firm went  to extraordinary measures to retain  him as a client and his 
relationship was badly damaged when this transfer  went through. So Mr M said he 
would feel very uneasy  about going  back to the previous firm and reopening a new 
account. He therefore concluded  this option  wasnt realistic given the circumstances. 
He didnt consider  the offer to pay 8% interest  from November  2018  to March 2019  
was fair. He said that he had in effect  frozen  his account until this service had 
considered the complaint  and he had explained this to Fidelity. He said that Fidelity 
continued to charge  him fees on the full balance  of his funds with it, even though he 
couldnt buy or swap them. He said that as a result, he thought Fidelity had likely 
made more in fees than the interest  it offered  so he considered  that Fidelity ought  
to pay 8% interest and refund the fees he paid until this service finished its 
consideration of his complaint. 
The overall compensation  of £400 was insufficient  and Mr M considered  this valued 
his time as being worthless. 
Mr M didnt recall  an ISA contribution in March 2015  in any event he confirmed the 
first time he found out that Fidelity wouldnt allow a US person to hold or operate an 
account with it was in January 2019.  
He didnt agree with the way the investigator had made  assumptions  about his 
trading activity. He said that prior to November 2018 he had been fighting  a serious 
medical condition  which had occupied his time and he didnt retire until 2018. So he 
didnt think it was reasonable to assume that after November 2018 his trading activity 
wouldve been the same. 
Fidelity provided a response to Mr Ms points above. In short:
In 1997 there was no requirement on Fidelity to register a customers nationality  so 
it didnt do anything  wrong at the time.  
Fidelity didnt specifically encourage Mr M to transfer his holdings to it in November 
2018  it simply had an offer available which included covering exit fees from other 
firms where the customer wanted to transfer to its platform.  
Fidelity didnt agree it should refund any fees to Mr M. 
It confirmed Mr M did make a lump sum contribution to his ISA in March 2015.  
It was Mr Ms decision to wait for this service to conclude its consideration of his 
complaint  during a time when he already knew that there were restrictions on the 
account. So it wouldnt be fair to expect Fidelity  to compensate  him for this during this 
period. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr M has made some detailed submissions and I have given them  very careful  
consideration. But for the reasons I give below, I dont think what  he has suggested as 
compensation would be fair. 
I appreciate Mr M might not agree, but having looked at the terms I think  theyre clear. Ive 
seen a copy of the Client  Terms  which, on page  1, specifically say:
Ref: DRN29954053The products and services described in these Terms are available  to UK residents only and 
are not being  offered, in particular, to citizens or residents of the United States of America 
(US persons). By accepting these Terms, you warrant that you are resident in the UK and 
that you are not a US person and that you accept the terms of the relevant prospectus.
Throughout the years there have been  multiple  times in which Mr M has made use of 
Fidelitys service, and it was his responsibility  to ensure that at all times he was aware of the 
terms he was agreeing to. I note what he has said about the transaction in March 2015, but 
Im persuaded by the evidence Ive seen. In particular, Ive seen a letter from Fidelity 
confirming to Mr M his investment into an ISA of around £15,000. This letter  attaches  a key 
facts document  and additional terms which also explain the restrictions around US persons.  
So Im satisfied that while Fidelity ought to have picked up on Mr Ms situation much sooner, 
Mr M also had opportunities to identify the issue. And whilst I acknowledge what  Mr M has 
said about Fidelity also making money from his custom during this period,  I dont think  this 
materially changes the situation. Mr M has had the benefit of investments, and a service,  
that he would never  had been able to benefit  from had Fidelity  identified him as a US person 
sooner.  
Im also not persuaded Mr M should be compensated  for any loss of opportunity  more  
generally. Ultimately, Fidelitys mistake  is not preventing him from trading much sooner  so 
I dont think it follows that it ought to compensate  him for potential  future  trades, when it isnt 
clear how or with who he wouldve been able to place such  trades. 
What I do acknowledge  is that the transfer from a different  provider would never have 
happened had Fidelity correctly picked up on Mr Ms nationality.  So I agree in principle that 
Fidelity ought to consider how to put things right for Mr M, and I note it has made  two 
alternative offers. 
It has either agreed to pay 8% on the cash portion of the money  transferred from 
November 2018  until March 2019,  or to backdate any investments sold in November 2018 
after the transfer so that he isnt disadvantaged  and facilitate a transfer back to his previous 
provider. 
Mr M has explained why he doesnt consider the second of these two alternatives to be right 
for him. Im not going to comment on the reasons he has given for why he considers his 
relationship became badly damaged with his previous provider. 
In terms of the first option however, I dont agree with Mr Ms proposal  for extending the 8% 
interest beyond March 2019,  nor that Fidelity  should  be refunding fees and charges as well 
for this period.  
 
Firstly I should say that whilst I can understand why Mr M might  have thought  that taking no 
action while  this service  looked into his complaint was the right thing to do, I dont agree 
Fidelity should compensate him for that. This was Mr Ms choice  but in the meantime, 
Fidelity was still providing a service  to him for which I think  its fair it should continue to be 
remunerated. So I dont agree that it should refund any of those fees or charges. 
And it follows, therefore, that I dont consider it ought to pay 8% interest  for the full period 
either. Im satisfied that Fidelitys offer to pay 8% interest on the cash  sum between 
November 2018  and March 2019  compensates  Mr M for his inability to trade  during this time 
 but from March 2019 Mr M made  a conscious  decision not to take any action. 
Ref: DRN29954054Its a fundamental  principle of investing that rewards ought to be commensurate with risk 
taken  risk which  Mr M chose not to take by leaving the cash with Fidelity. So in these 
circumstances, Im not persuaded it would be fair for Fidelity  to compensate  Mr M for this 
decision. Im not satisfied  the opportunity loss Mr M says he has suffered was caused by 
something Fidelity did or didnt do. 
Finally, Ive considered  Mr Ms objection  to the £400  compensation offer.  I can entirely  
understand why Mr M considers the time he has spent on the matter warrants far greater 
compensation. However, as Ive explained above,  Im not persuaded all of this situation has 
been of Fidelitys making  because its clear to me that Mr M had opportunities himself  to 
identify, in the terms and conditions,  the fact that as US person he was being offered 
services he shouldnt have had access to. I would also add that this compensation isnt 
designed to be equivalent to the time Mr M spent looking into a complaint. On the other 
hand, as Ive also said, it was Fidelitys  responsibility to ensure it only provided services  to 
consumers who were  entitled to them, and Im persuaded its failure  to do so caused Mr M 
trouble and upset.  So I agree he should be paid compensation for that. Weighing everything 
Ive said up, and given all the circumstances  of this complaint, Im satisfied Fidelitys offer of 
£400 is fair and reasonable  compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Financial Administration Services Limiteds  offer to Mr M is fair and 
reasonable  so thats what I award.  Financial Administration Services  Limited must:
Either, pay 8% interest  on the uninvested  cash portion of the funds which  were  
transferred from the other provider, or
If Mr M decides  he wants  to transfer his investment to the previous provider, 
backdate any investments  sold in November 2018 after the transfer,  so that Mr M 
isnt disadvantaged by any movements in the market since  then; 
Fidelity must also:
Offer  Mr M a free transfer  of his investments to another provider; and 
Pay Mr M £400 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to him if it hasnt 
done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2995405