K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Nationwide Building  Society wont  refund payments that they did 
not authorise from their joint account.
background 
Mrs O was out shopping in the early evening of 10 January 2019.  But she realised later on 
that shed lost her purse containing her bank cards. She contacted Nationwide  and it told her 
that one of her cards  had been used  to take out £500 at a cashpoint. It blocked all her cards.  
She also found out that her card had been used to make payments at a number of retailers. 
The total amount  that had been spent on the account she holds jointly with Mr O was 
£1,023.12. Mrs O reported this to the police.
Nationwide said it wouldnt be refunding the money.  It didnt  say that it thought Mrs O had 
made the payments. But it said she had told it that she kept had written  her PINs down on a 
piece of paper also in her purse.  The terms and conditions of her account stated that she 
should keep her security  details safe.  She hadnt  done so.
Our investigator said that he thought  Nationwide  should have refunded one of the payments 
 a contactless one for £31.65 as this hadnt  required the PIN. He looked at the attempted 
use of the three cards  Mrs O had lost that related  to her different accounts at Nationwide. 
This started  at 18:14 that evening. It was clear that the person trying to use the cards didnt 
know which PIN related  to which card.  Two of the cards were  blocked after three  incorrect 
attempts to enter the PIN. But the PIN on the card used to make the disputed  payments was 
correctly input on the second attempt.  So he didnt think Mrs O had taken sufficient  steps to 
disguise it. As a result  he thought that she had been  grossly  negligent by not keeping her 
PIN safe.  He didnt  think that Nationwide had a basis to stop any of the payments. Mrs O 
said she hadnt used  that card in a cash point before but that wasnt a reason not to allow 
the withdrawal. And it didnt notify a consumer  when a card was blocked but waited to be 
contacted. So he thought  it was fair and reasonable that Mrs O be held responsible for all 
the payments  that were made using the PIN.
Mrs O didnt agree and wanted  her complaint to be reviewed. She stated that she hadnt 
made a cash point withdrawal in 15 years and that she never  received any alert about  what 
was happening.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised  
Mrs O wouldnt  generally be responsible for them.
There are exceptions to that and the relevant one here is whether Mrs O acted with gross 
negligence in not keeping her details  safe.  
Ref: DRN20473692So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at this complaint:
-What  is the most  likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for 
these payments?
-Was the way Mrs O stored her PIN grossly negligent?
-What  is the fair and reasonable outcome here?
Nationwide has provided details of the way in which the disputed  transactions were 
processed. The chip on the card in question was read each time and the PIN entered.  So I 
am satisfied  that these  were authenticated.
Mrs O has been open about keeping her PINs  written down as well of those of other family 
members who she explains  need  special care. She says that a payment with another  
financial business had been made on her sons card which  also went missing  at the time. 
And thats what helped  to alert her to what  had happened.  I know Mrs O says that the PINs 
were only written on a scrappy piece  of paper with an initial against each to help her 
remember which was which. But after some incorrect attempts the right PIN for one of her 
cards at Nationwide was input.
Ive looked at the summary our investigator  has given to Mrs O about the actual and 
attempted use of her cards.  The only thing  I would add to that is that a further attempt to use 
the card relating to the disputed payments was made in the early hours of 11 February 2019 
at a cashpoint.  Mrs O had reported the card as lost the night before and so it was retained in 
the machine. To me this is additional  support for a conclusion that an unknown third party 
had obtained her cards. This explanation  make  sense given what Mrs O said about her 
shopping trip and that she had lost her purse  containing the cards and PINs. So I find that 
she didnt authorise  these disputed payments.
I need to consider the question of gross negligence. Negligence  is often  referred to as a 
failure to exercise  reasonable care. So, I think it fair and reasonable to conclude, the use of 
gross negligence,  rather than mere negligence, suggests a lack of care, that goes 
significantly beyond ordinary negligence.
Nationwides terms and conditions state  that the PIN should be kept secret and not 
disclosed. Im afraid that in my view a reasonable person would think  that writing  down the 
PINs and keeping them in the same purse as the cards went beyond  mere carelessness. 
And I think it was grossly negligent.
I need to consider the fair and reasonable outcome here. Mrs O said she writes down the 
PINs to help her remember.  And she deals with those for other family members too given 
their special circumstances. But here Im looking at her PIN being discovered.  And as Ive 
said shed not taken steps that prevented a fraudster making a successful attempt to enter  
this with one of her cards  within  what seems to be minutes of that person obtaining her 
purse. I dont  think Nationwide ought to have realised what had happened.  There  was 
always the facility  for Mrs O to take out cash whether shed done so or not before and all the 
payments happened within an hour. 
So having  considered how these payments were  made Im afraid  I dont have a basis to 
require Nationwide  to refund any of them that were made using the PIN. My understanding  
from Mrs Os complaint  form and account statement was that Nationwide had refunded the 
contactless payment  already on 7 February 2019  and its now confirmed this. So I wont  be 
asking it to do anything  more and I know how disappointed Mr and Mrs O will be given 
whats at stake for them.
Ref: DRN20473693my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 June 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2047369