K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  about a point  of sale loan taken out in her name with etika Finance UK 
Limited (EFL).  
She also complains that the contract that was financed by this point of sale loan was 
breached. She wants to be released from the finance contract with nothing further owed and 
with her credit file updated to reflect this.
background
I set out the background  to Miss Gs complaint in the provisional decision I issued for her 
complaint. Ill set out the background again here so that all the relevant information is in this 
document too.
In August  2018,  Miss G entered into a contract  with a supplier, a limited company who I will
call N. The contract with N was financed  by way of a point of sale loan. N acted as the 
credit broker  for this loan.
Miss G said she was unaware that she was paying  for the contract with N by taking out a 
loan. She also said that she didnt sign any documentation relating to the loan. She told us 
she didnt receive  any information from EFL about  the loan at the time it was taken out. But 
she also said EFL had sent her an email  about the loan when the loan began. But she was 
unaware of this email,  at the time, because it had gone straight to her junk mail folder. She 
explained she only came  across it later. In her opinion EFL ought to have sent a letter as 
well as the email, as emails don't always come through.
Further, as part of the contract  with N it had sold her some  branded  products. The products 
are manufactured by a limited company  who I will call E. She sent us information  from 
lawyers representing  E which suggested  that N wasnt licensed by E to sell its products.
Miss Gs stance  is that all of the above should mean  that her contract for the loan,  should  not 
stand and should be cancelled.
Miss G told us she had recovered  all the money she has paid out so far via what  she called  
an indemnity claim, and then a merchant  dispute. However, she also told us EFL is still 
pursuing her for the debt under the loan. She wants this to stop and she came to our 
service. Miss G suggests that this debt recovery action was inappropriate.
Once Miss Gs complaint  was with us EFL wrote a final response  letter.  It said it wrote to 
Miss G by email about the loan. Once before the loan was finalised to say it was 
considering her application.  Then  afterwards to tell her the loan was approved. It also 
pointed out that she had signed an invoice which indicated that she had taken out finance 
to pay N and that she agreed to this. It also sent us emails from Miss G to it, indicating she 
was going to make repayments to the loan, but she was experiencing temporary financial 
difficulties but that she would  make  repayments  when she could. It didnt agree that in the 
circumstances it should cancel the loan.
That said,  it acknowledged  that Miss G did have rights against it under Section 75 of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  It also acknowledged  that N had ceased trading before  it had
provided all the services that it had contracted with Miss G to provide. It took on board that
this meant  there had been a breach of contract  which Miss G could look to it to remedy. On
Ref: DRN28943372this basis, it had found a new supplier to provide the remaining services, Ill call this new
supplier T. Alternatively, it offered to only ask her to pay for the goods and services  shed
received so far. Plus,  it said it would also give her a credit of £50 as a goodwill gesture. EFL
did not agree it had acted inappropriately in asking her to repay the debt.
Miss G did not accept this offer. In summary,  she pointed out that her contract with N was to 
supply goods  and services related to a medical condition, specifically a skin condition. T did 
not provide these specialist treatments, so she didnt agree it was a suitable stand-in for N. 
Moreover, she said she had to have the whole course of treatment without interruption to get 
the benefit from it. She also explained that the products shed  been  supplied with had to be 
used in conjunction with the treatments. The products were useless unless used in this 
context. She repeated  that she wanted  the loan contract to be cancelled.
In my provisional decision I said that because of the type of finance  she had used Miss G 
had the protection of Section 75, which  the parties both already accepted.
Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in certain circumstances if the debtor has, in 
relation to a transaction  financed by a credit  agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or a breach of contract, then she has a like claim against the 
credit provider.
I thought it was important  to set out my role here. I said in considering a complaint about a 
financial services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  
have under Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Miss Gs complaint, I 
have to take account of relevant law, amongst other  things. Section 75 is relevant law. 
Therefore, Ive taken  it into account. But that doesnt  mean  Im obliged  to reach the same  
outcome as, for example,  a court might reach if Miss G pursued  a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts.
Misrepresentation here means a false statement of fact that the consumer  relied on to her 
detriment and which induced her to enter into the contract. Miss G tells us that there  were  a 
number of misrepresentations here.  Specifically, she indicated that she had no idea she had 
entered into a loan to finance her contract with N. She suggested that had she known N 
didnt have a licence to sell Es products she would  not have contracted  with it.
Ive seen the emails  where Miss G acknowledges she has to pay EFL and asks for more  
time to pay. Ive not seen  anything that suggests  she did not send these emails.  And I 
thought it is unlikely she would have written  to EFL in these terms if she had entered  into a 
loan with it without  her knowledge.
I also took account of her signature on the invoice, which she has not said she did not sign. 
The invoice clearly  sets out she is paying  N by taking out a loan.
I noted that Miss G suggested that EFL didnt do enough to make  her aware of the loan. But 
she did receive one of its emails at least,  and I was not persuaded that she did not receive 
the second email  too, as it appeared it had been  sent to the same  address. So, I couldnt  
fairly say EFL was responsible for her not seeing  its emails. Further, it was not obliged  to 
send both letters and emails to the same person about the same thing and therefore 
duplicate effort. Rather, in the circumstances,  it was entitled to assume  Miss G had received 
its emails.
Ref: DRN28943373Moreover, I was not persuaded that if Miss G had known about the potential irregularity in 
the relationship  between  N and E this would have made her refuse to contract with N. In any 
event, I thought the situation between N and E is a licensing  issue between those parties, 
and we dont have Ns side of the story.  I also thought this licensing issue  is not relevant to 
Miss Gs complaint.
For all of these reasons I was not persuaded by what  Miss G says about misrepresentation. 
It follows I didnt agree that it is fair and reasonable  to ask EFL to cancel the loan on this 
basis
That said,  both parties agree  that the contract for supply from N has been  breached.  I 
thought about what would  be fair and reasonable here bearing in mind  relevant regulations  
which include the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
EFL says each of the individual items  in the contract were discrete and standalone individual  
items. So, it was possible  to get the benefit of each item by itself. I can see how that 
interpretation might be possible in some circumstances.
However, in the very individual circumstances of this complaint I was more persuaded by 
what Miss G says.  The medical condition she talks about  can be treated with a course of 
treatment over a relatively short space  of time.  Each treatment building upon  the other with 
the treated  person only getting  the benefit  if they complete  the full treatment  within the 
specified time. I was satisfied based on the information that I have that this was the situation  
in this instance. So, the contract had to be performed in full to be performed  at all.
Further, I was satisfied  that the alternative  supplier put forward  by EFL cannot  provide this 
specialist treatment, even  if it could it would have to start from scratch.  It would not be 
enough for it to merely give Miss G the outstanding treatments  that she has not had. On that 
basis, I was satisfied that it is fair and reasonable to say that EFL must  cancel  the contract in 
full with nothing  further owed by Miss G. And it must  stop pursuing her for payment.
I said Miss G indicates that she has got all of the money back that she paid in relation to the 
loan. If that is not correct,  I asked Miss G to let me know. But on this basis  I was not asking 
EFL to refund any repayments she had made towards the loan.
It followed, I also thought it was fair and reasonable that EFL should contact the credit 
reference agencies  and ask them to remove any information that it has asked them to 
register on Miss Gs credit  file in relation to the point of sale loan.
Normally I would have asked Miss G to return the goods  that she has received under the 
contract with N. However, these  items  are likely  to have  been used on her face.  Given the 
current wider circumstances in our country, I didnt think  it would  be appropriate for her to 
return these items to EFL.
At the point when  EFL was contacting Miss G it had a loan agreement in place with her. 
Further, it seems  she had fallen behind with payments and in these circumstances EFL may 
have legal obligations to contact her. For all of these reasons, I did not agree it acted 
inappropriately when  it contacted her about repayment of the loan.
I said that I intended to ask EFL to cancel the loan with nothing  further owed by Miss G and 
also that it had to stop pursuing her for payment under the loan. And to contact the credit  
Ref: DRN28943374reference agencies  and ask them to remove any information it has asked them  to register on 
Miss Gs credit  file about the loan.
I invited the parties  to respond to my provisional  decision.
Miss G responded to say she had signed the itemised invoice, but the supplier had not told 
her what  it was she was signing.  And she had not realised what it said.  Rather, she just 
thought the invoice was merely putting into writing what  she already agreed with the 
supplier.
Further, Miss G repeated what she said before about not having signed the contract for the 
loan. She reiterated  her previous stance  that is that the supplier had taken the iPad out of 
the room and then came back  and said she had been accepted.  She thought it meant  her 
direct debits had been  set up. She explained she didnt realise that it had applied for loan on 
her behalf  and that the loan application  had gone through. 
Miss G also told us that by the time she saw the email from EFL telling  her about the loan, 
the cancellation period  had already gone by, so she decided  not to fight  it, and continued to 
pay off the loan until she lost her job. However,  she was then surprised to find out that the 
supplier without warning had gone into administration leaving her high and dry. 
Miss G added This has been a hard, ongoing battle  but I am happy with your decision and I 
accept it. I don't want money from them, I just want my contract cancelled, my credit  restored  
and to not have to pay anything to them,
Ive not been told that we received any response from EFL. 
my findings
I thank Miss G for her response to my provisional decision. Ive re-considered  all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the complete file again  and revisited  my provisional decision.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive thought about what Miss G says about the itemised invoice. But it does not seem from 
what she is saying that she was prevented from looking at the invoice to see what  it said. 
Instead, it seems she chose not to read it and accepted it without asking what it was and 
assumed she knew what  it said.
I accept that many of us might find it tedious to read through  a document before signing it - 
particularly so when  we think we already know what the contents  are. But reading something 
before signing  it does offer an opportunity for mistakes to be corrected and potential 
misunderstandings to be avoided.
I urge Miss G to read anything she is going to sign before she signs  it in future. Thats her 
choice to make of course. But she might find it helpful to know  that in general all of us are 
taken to have  read,  understood and agreed with documents that we sign.
Ref: DRN28943375Im not persuaded by what she says about  the loan.  I think if she had known nothing about  
the loan until afterwards then she would have  reacted differently. Instead  of agreeing to pay 
the loan I think  it likely she would  have reacted with indignation regardless of whether the 
cancellation period had expired and would  have disputed any liability under the loan. Her 
reaction seems to that of a person  who understands they had agreed  to a loan albeit they 
were not particularly pleased about  it.
That said,  I think Miss G should not be held to the loan because the contract that the loan 
financed has been breached and she has not been  offered an appropriate remedy. The 
breach is so severe that she derived no value from the contract. On that basis,  I have come 
to the same  conclusion as I did in my provisional decision for the same reasons.
my final decision
My final decision is that etika Finance UK Limited  must end the loan contract with nothing  
further owed by Miss G. It must stop pursuing her for any debt owed under the loan contract. 
It must also contact the credit reference agencies and ask them  to remove any information  
that it has asked  them  to register on her credit  file about the loan.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2894337