K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral  Insurance Company  Limited said it would charge him an 
additional policy excess and wouldnt  provide a courtesy car when he had his car repaired 
under his motor  insurance policy by a non-approved  repairer.  He wants assurances about  
the effect of using the approved repairer on his cars  manufacturers warranty.  And he also 
wants compensation for his stress.  
background
Mr S made a claim for damage repair  to his car following an accident.  He took the car to 
Admirals approved repairer.  It said it could repair the car but Mr S said it also told him that 
this might invalidate  his manufacturers  warranty. Admiral  said Mr S could use a 
manufacturer approved repairer but this would incur  an additional  excess  and no courtesy 
car would be provided. Mr S thought  this was unfair.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought Admiral 
was entitled by the policy terms  and conditions to charge an additional  excess and not 
provide a courtesy car if a non-approved repairer  was chosen. He couldnt see evidence that 
the approved  repairer had said that its repairs would affect  the cars warranty or that Mr S 
had checked this with the manufacturer. He invited Mr S to provide evidence of this for him 
to consider further.
Mr S replied  that Admiral  hadnt provided assurance  that it would cover the costs  if the cars 
manufacturer invalidated his warranty because of the work carried  out by the approved 
repairer.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr S was concerned that using  a repairer that wasnt approved by his 
cars manufacturer would  affect  his warranty. Mr S thought Admiral should have such a 
repairer available for his repairs and told him at the point of sale if it couldnt. But the choice 
of approved repairers is Admirals commercial decision  and not something that we can 
comment on. Nor can I say that Admiral should  have manufacturer  approved repairers  in 
every area. So I cant say that Admiral has done  anything wrong  on this point. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I think the policy clearly sets out that an additional excess will be charged and a courtesy  car 
not provided if a non-approved repairer  is used.  I can see that Mr Ss policy  schedule  sets 
out the additional £100 policy excess that would  be charged if a non-approved  repairer  was 
chosen for the repairs. 
I think this term is sufficiently  brought to the consumers attention, and so its fair and 
reasonable for Admiral to apply  it. I can also see that in Mr Ss email  correspondence with 
Admiral about the repairs the agent clearly  and repeatedly explained  these points to Mr S. 
So I dont  think it was unfair or unreasonable for Admiral to charge an additional policy 
excess and not provide  a courtesy  car. 
Ref: DRN24141382Mr S said the approved  repairer told him its repairs might affect his manufacturers warranty.  
But I havent seen  evidence to confirm this and so I cant say that Mr S was mis-advised. I 
have seen, however,  Mr Ss emails with Admiral  in which it made  it clear  that its repairs 
came with a life-time guarantee; that manufacturers parts would be used; and an invoice 
would be provided  to confirm this. I think that was fair and reasonable. 
Admiral also said it couldnt  comment on whether  the manufacturer  would cancel his 
warranty, which I think is fair as this is a separate business. But I havent seen that Mr S 
checked with the manufacturer his fear that components touched by the approved  repairer 
would still be under warranty. 
Mr S wanted  me to listen  to recordings of phone calls he had with Admiral  where  it wouldnt 
give him the assurance he requested.  But I dont  think  this is necessary as I can see this 
from his email exchange. 
I think Admiral  clearly  explained Mr Ss options for repairs  under his policy. I think it was for 
Mr S to make his decision  on whether to use the approved repairer  or a manufacturer  
approved repairer.  I cant see that the policy requires Admiral  to provide Mr S with 
assurances about the cars manufacturers  warranty. And so I cant say that Admiral did 
anything wrong  in this or needs  to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2414138