K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
Mr and Mrs A say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  the policy.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1995.  It was in the name of Mr A only. 
They paid a monthly amount for the policy. The policy would have paid a monthly benefit for 
up to 12 months if Mr A couldnt work  due to an accident, sickness  or involuntary 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
BoS hasnt been able to show  us any of the original paperwork from the time of the sale.        
I dont find this surprising  as the sale took place so long ago and the mortgage has now 
been redeemed.  But where there is limited information, Ill make  my decision based  on 
whats more likely to have  happened, taking  into account  the evidence  available, what  both 
parties have told me and what  we know about these  types  of sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
BoS has told us the mortgage was arranged and the PPI sold during  a meeting. BoS has 
told us that its representative  should  have advised Mr and Mrs A to take out the PPI to 
protect their new mortgage. 
From what  we know of how this type of policy was sold I think  its likely  there  would have 
been some  discussion  of the cover.  Its unlikely  the PPI could have been set up without 
Mr and Mrs A signing some form of application for it. And the PPI policy  was in force for 
some time and would  have probably  appeared on their mortgage  statements. So if 
Mr and Mrs A hadnt asked for the policy or didnt want the cover  Id expect them  to have 
questioned it at an early  stage. But Ive not seen any evidence  that they did. 
Taking all this into account, I think its most likely  BoS made  Mr and Mrs A aware  of it, and 
that it was optional and they chose to take it out. Although  I can understand why 
Mr and Mrs A wouldnt recall this after so many years.
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A so it had to check  that the policy was 
right for them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time I think  it was.
The policy was in Mr As name only and I cant  see he would have been affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover, so he could have made a successful claim if he 
had needed to.
Ref: DRN25514152BoSs records show that Mr A was the main income provider, so it could have been  the case  
that Mrs A wasnt working at the time or in a lower paid role. This would explain 
Mr and Mrs As decision  to have the policy in the sole name  of Mr A. 
Mr A has told us he would  have received between three and six months  sick pay from his 
employer. But this particular PPI policy could have paid a monthly  benefit  for up to 12 
months if Mr A became too unwell  to work  or lost his job. And it would pay the benefit on top 
of any sick pay so any benefits could have been  used for other  essential  household 
outgoings. The benefit could also have paid out for longer than Mr As sick pay would last. 
So despite  his work benefits  I still think Mr and Mrs A would have found  the policy useful if 
Mr A became unwell,  particularly if he couldnt  work for an extended period.
Mr and Mrs A have  told us they could  have relied  upon family help if they had needed to. But 
their families own financial  circumstances could have changed, so their offer of help couldnt 
have been relied upon.
I dont know what information about  the policy Mr and Mrs A were given at the time of the 
sale. So its possible the information BoS gave them  wasnt as clear  as it should have been. 
But I think they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for Mr and Mrs A if something went  wrong.  It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the policy. 
In summary  I think its most likely  BoS made  it clear  the policy  was optional and 
Mr and Mrs A chose  to take it out. Mr and Mrs A seem to have had a need for the cover  and 
the policy looks to have been  right for them. So even if BoS had given them all the 
information it should have, I still think they would have bought the PPI policy for Mr A.
After our adjudicator had reviewed Mr and Mrs As complaint  saying it shouldnt  be upheld,  
BoS told us it would be making  an offer to Mr and Mrs A. However, BoS later confirmed the 
offer was made  in error. In recognition of the inconvenience  and upset this must have 
caused Mr and Mrs A it offered to make a payment  to them of £50.00. In the circumstances, 
I think this offer is fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against  Bank  of Scotland  Plc.
It is for Mr and Mrs A to decide whether they would like to accept Bank of Scotland  Plcs 
offer for £50.00  for incorrectly saying it would pay mis-sale compensation to them.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  4 March 2019.  
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2551415