K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Canada Square  Operations Limited (Egg) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Rs credit card account when he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Egg disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Rs case. 
Mr R says the policy was sold during a meeting with Egg. But from what we know  about Egg, 
it only offered its products  online. So I think the policy was added to Mr Rs credit card during 
an online  application process. 
As this policy was taken  out online with no interaction with an Egg representative I think its 
unlikely Egg recommend the PPI to Mr R. So it didnt have to check if it was suitable  for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr R got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
The policy excluded claims resulting from a medical  condition which was a chronic or 
continuing disease that the customer knew about at the start date. Mr R had such a medical 
condition.
Although it looks like Mr Rs condition was controlled at the time, I think  this still wouldve 
mattered to Mr R in the circumstances of this sale. Part of this particular condition  meant  it 
could be unpredictable in when it could  become  more serious. So I think  it wouldve been on 
Mr Rs mind. And I think he wouldve considered  it to be the most likely condition  to cause 
him to be off sick. But under this policy, he wouldnt have been  able to claim for time off 
caused by this  or for anything that resulted from it.
I cant see that Mr R was given clear information about  this exclusion at the sale.  If he had 
been given clear enough information, I think its most likely that he wouldnt have bought  the 
policy. So I think that Mr R has lost out because of the flaws in this particular sale.
Ive thought carefully about the points raised  by Egg surrounding Mr R mentioning  this 
condition until after he had referred  his complaint to us and its request Mr R provides the 
details of when  he was first diagnosed with the condition.  But having reviewed everything, I 
have no reason to doubt Mr Rs testimony,  what hes said is plausible  given the evidence 
that is available.  
putting things right
Ref: DRN26478202Egg should put Mr R in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Egg should find out how much  Mr R would  have owed when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Egg should then refund  the difference between what Mr R owed when  he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Egg can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.Egg should add simple interest  on the difference between  what  Mr R would have owed  
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  Egg works out what Mr R would have owed each month without PPI  Mr R 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, Egg should also pay simple  interest  on the 
extra Mr R paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mr R 
wouldve owed Egg something  on his credit  card. The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 

D.Egg should tell Mr R what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Egg to take off tax from this interest. Egg must give Mr R a certificate showing 
how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Canada Square  Operations Limited should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2647820