K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains he was told he needed an ongoing  advice service  for his pension.  He said 
this was wrong. Hed paid more than he needed  to and he wanted his money back from. The 
Prudential Assurance  Company Limited.
background
Mr C complains that when his pension was put into drawdown he was told he had to have a 
financial adviser. He was told other advisers  may charge more and he needed an adviser  for 
the term of the pension.  On that basis he signed  papers to commit to this. It subsequently 
became clear this wasnt right and he cancelled the agreement  and complained. He wanted  
his money back that was paid to the financial adviser. He said that he set up the drawdown 
to receive a net amount.  After a while the amount  reduced for tax. He contacted the adviser 
who failed to take action. After 5 months he contacted Prudential direct  who said they had no 
record of this request  for an increase and he didnt need a financial adviser on an ongoing 
basis.
Prudential said the conversations  werent recorded.  The advisers said he followed processes 
and made  Mr C aware of all options  before  he proceeded.  The adviser said he confirmed  
that he needed advice to move the pension but not for the duration of the pension.  He did 
however recommend the optional ongoing advice service which had a monthly charge. 
There was no evidence  the advice said other companies would charge more. Pension 
legislation required advice when transferring into drawdown and so it was correct to say 
Mr C needed advice  to move into drawdown.  It didnt  uphold the complaint.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in the compliant. I said that as there was no record of the full 
conversation between Mr C and his adviser  it was difficult to be certain what was said.  In 
such circumstances this service refers to such evidence as is available  and decides  what  is 
most likely to have been said.  
The Prudential accepts  that the adviser recommended  the ongoing service  but didnt say it 
was a requirement. This is what is said in the suitability letter and there  is no other evidence 
to suggest it was a requirement. Given this I think it is most likely this is what  was said at the 
time. The suitability  letter would also have given Mr C the chance to check  what  had been  
suggested.
With respect to the complaint about the amount payable monthly, I noted that Mr C produced
evidence of a 20 minute  telephone call with his adviser. Unfortunately he cannot recall  what
was said in that call nor when he first asked the adviser to make  sure he received £1,000  per
month net. He does  however say that he frequently called the adviser who didnt answer  and
there was no voicemail option. Based on what Mr C says and the evidence  of at least one
call I think it is reasonable to conclude that Mr C did as he says and was trying to get the
monthly amount  changed. I think this is further supported by the fact he then calls the
Prudential direct and they make the change.
Mr C hasnt suggested that he has suffered any loss due to the delay in implementing  this
change. It is however clear that he needed to chase Prudential to get the change made and
this was inconvenient. In the light of this I think  an award of £100  for distress and
inconvenience is fair in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN20732002I proposed to uphold  the complaint in part and to direct that The Prudential Assurance  
Company Limited  should pay Mr C £100  for distress and inconvenience.
Prudential said it had been in contact with Mr Cs adviser. The adviser  said that Mr C had 
asked to change  his income but that he said a meeting was important to review  
circumstances and consider tax issues.  He said he later became  aware  Mr C contacted the 
office direct  and made the arrangements himself. The adviser recalled  that Mr C was 
insistent that they shouldnt  meet and should  change the income  without a meeting. It said it 
was possible this was what  was discussed  in the 20 minute called. It didnt  accept that the 
adviser hadnt returned calls and said there was no reason  to ignore them  and that the 
advisers phone had voicemail.  In the light of the above it said there was no evidence that 
Mr C had to chase the adviser and in fact Mr C refused to engage with the suggested 
meeting and later dealt  direct himself.
Mr C said he wanted a refund of the money paid for the adviser and didnt  want 
compensation. He said other than trusting an adviser, he hadnt done anything  wrong.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  changed  my 
mind.
The evidence from the Prudential supports what Mr C said. Its clear Mr C asked for a 
change in his income which wasnt actioned by his adviser. It is also clear  that as a result he 
had to take action himself  and chase the change by contacting Prudential  direct.  So I think  
my provisional conclusion remains correct, namely that Mr C needed to chase  Prudential  to 
get the change made  and this was inconvenient  for him and justified an award for distress 
and inconvenience.  
While I note Mr Cs comments my view of the arrangement to retain the adviser  on an 
ongoing basis remains unchanged as neither party has submitted any further evidence to 
show that he was told it was a requirement  rather than a recommendation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part.
I direct  that The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited should pay Mr C £100  for distress 
and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN20732003Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2073200