K820x#14complaint
Miss B says AXA France IARD (AXAF) mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXAF didnt provide  any response to the provisional  decision. Miss Bs representatives  
responded to confirm  they had received the decision but had no further comments. 
As neither party has provided any further comments or information  for me to consider,  I see 
no reason to alter the findings  made in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2020
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN25889372copy of provisional decision
complaint
Miss B says AXAF mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a store account in 2004.  The policy cost 
was £1.50 per £100 Miss B owed on her store card. The policy  would have paid 15% of the 
outstanding balance on the card each month if Miss B couldnt work because  she had an 
accident, was unwell  or lost her job. The policy also provided life cover as well as price  and 
purchase protection.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. AXAF disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case. I currently dont intend  to uphold 
Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
AXAF had to make  it clear  to Miss B that the policy was optional and get her consent  
before PPI could be applied  to the account.  Miss B says she was not aware  that PPI had 
been added  to her account. Ive been given a copy of the application form completed at the 
time of the sale and I can see that there is a section to apply for Account Cover  the 
name used  by AXAF  for PPI. In this section it says you should  only sign if you want  to take 
out Account  Cover.
Miss B has signed the section to confirm  she wanted the cover.  If Miss B didnt want to take 
out the PPI she could  have left this section  blank. And Miss B has signed the overall 
application form which suggests it reflected what she wanted.
So, based  on what Ive seen, I think its more likely that AXAF made it clear the policy  was 
optional and Miss B chose to take it out, knowing she could  refuse it if she didnt want it.
AXAF has said it didnt  recommend the policy to Miss B and, as I havent seen anything  to 
make me think otherwise, I think thats  likely to be right. So it didnt have to check if the 
policy was right for her. But AXAF did need  to make sure it gave Miss B clear enough 
information about the policy to enable her to decide  for herself  if she should take the policy.
Its possible the information AXAF gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even  if AXAF had given her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would 
have made  a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy.  I say this because 
Miss B was eligible for the policy and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to 
the cover, such as having unusual working  arrangements or a medical  condition  of which 
she was already aware.
Ref: DRN25889373When making this complaint Miss B told us that she didnt need the policy  as she had more 
than the equivalent of six months salary in savings. Our adjudicator said he felt if Miss B had 
been made aware of the true costs  of the policy, she wouldnt have considered  it good  value 
for money  based  on her other means.  So the complaint was upheld.
AXAF disagreed with the adjudicators opinion as it didnt have any evidence of these  sums.  
AXAF asked for more  information about  these  savings, including  clarification  of the actual 
savings amount, how accessible they were  and if they were  marked for a specific purpose.  
This request was put to Miss B, via her representative, but unfortunately despite reminders, 
this information  hasnt been received. It is quite  unusual to have  over six months  salary  in 
savings and so I would  expect Miss B to be able to provide the details of this, along  with 
some evidence. Without such evidence Im unable to place as much  weight  on what Miss B 
has said about her savings as perhaps she would have liked me to.
Ive thought about this very carefully  and I appreciate that it is nearly  15 years since  this 
store card and PPI were taken out. This does mean  that recollections can be affected over 
time  its possible Miss B could have been  mistaken about  the about  of savings she did 
have at the time. Based on what  we have been told about Miss Bs job role at the time of 
taking out the card,  while I think its possible she did have some savings, I dont have 
anything to show that these funds would  have been significant enough to mean that the PPI 
policy would have been of no benefit  to her.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Miss B has lost out as a 
result of anything AXAF may have done wrong.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I currently dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN2588937