K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC wont refund all of the disputed withdrawals 
made from his account and has closed his account.
background
Mr R opened an account with Barclays at the end of January 2018  and a few days later paid 
in over £3,000  in cash. He says that he didnt receive the debit card or personal identification 
number (PIN) that Barclays sent to him. Over  a period of a week  all the money was taken 
from his account  by a series of withdrawals in branch  and using cash  machines (ATMs).
Barclays investigated and refunded  the ATM withdrawals totalling over £2,000  but decided  
not to refund  the remaining disputed transactions. It asked Mr R to provide it with proof of 
funds for the initial cash deposit, but he hasnt  done  this. It then gave Mr R notice of its 
intention to close the account.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt 
unable to conclude  that the withdrawals had been  made fraudulently and was persuaded 
they were most likely made and authorised by Mr R.
Mr R didnt agree. He said, in summary, that hes never given his card, PIN, passport or date 
of birth to anyone.  He also thought that Barclays should provide CCTV as this would  show  
he didnt make the withdrawals himself.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
our investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
relevant considerations
The disputed transactions were all made in February and March 2018. The regulations  
relevant to these  are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. In short, the regulations say 
that Barclays can hold Mr R liable  for the disputed items if the evidence  suggests that he 
most likely made or authorised them himself.  So my primary concern is to come  to a view 
about whether  or I not I think  Mr R authorised these payments.
first debit card *3012
Im satisfied from the evidence Barclays has provided that whoever made the transactions  
had both the genuine card and PIN. I say this because Barclays has shown that the 
transactions were  made and authenticated at ATMs  where the genuine  unique  chip in the 
card was read and the correct PIN was entered.
So Ive gone  on to consider the alternative possible explanations for how these disputed 
transactions were  made using the genuine card and PIN. These are:
Mr R received the card and PIN and used them himself
Ref: DRN27931252Someone,  with Mr Rs authority, used his card and PIN
Someone was able to intercept or take Mr Rs card and PIN and use them, without his 
consent 
Mr R has said that he didnt make  the ATM  withdrawals  with the card himself. He told 
Barclays that he didnt  receive the card and believed it had been intercepted  and used 
without his consent. Barclays has already refunded all these, amounting to £2,210. But its 
declined to refund £1,330 which was withdrawn in three amounts at a Barclays  Bank  
Assisted Service Device (ASD),  and one amount of £500 in person from over the counter. 
Mr R has said that his post is usually delivered  to his address, a flat, which isnt accessible 
from the road. Generally, post is put through the letterbox in his flats door, although 
occasionally it may be left at the bottom  of the block. He has said that he lives with other 
members of his family, but they wouldnt  open his post.
Ive carefully reviewed these ASD and counter withdrawals. The first ASD withdrawal was for 
£550. Im satisfied that the genuine card was used for this. In order to take this amount, not 
only is the card and PIN required, but Barclays requires its customers  to complete an extra  
security measure. Even if Mr Rs post had been  left at the bottom of the block of flats on one 
occasion, such that the card and PIN could have been intercepted  by an unknown  third 
party, as he suggests,  I find theres no convincing explanation how this person would have 
known Mr Rs additional personal information to pass this extra layer of security.  So I dont 
think an unknown person did intercept Mr Rs card.
Mr R didnt report the card lost or stolen until two weeks after hed opened the account. He 
was told that the card and PIN would take three to five days  to arrive. As hed already paid a 
large sum of money into his account six days after opening it, if he hadnt  received the card 
by then I think he might have asked Barclays about it at that time.
Barclays has said that it refunded the ATM withdrawals before it carried out a thorough 
investigation into what had happened. I also think  it was too quick  to make  the refunds. Im 
not persuaded that an unknown third party  used Mr Rs card,  so I think the withdrawals were 
either made by Mr R himself  or by someone  with his authority.
second debit card *3018
After Mr R reported the first card, ending *3012, as lost or stolen it was cancelled  and 
another card (ending *1011)  was issued. Mr R says that he didnt receive  this card either and 
it was cancelled eight  days later.  This card wasnt used at all. Then Barclays  issued a third 
card (ending  *3018), which was the second  debit card to be used on Mr Rs account. 
Mr R agrees that he received this card, but he then lost it on a night out. But a new and 
different PIN was issued for this card. So if the card had been found  or taken from Mr R 
when he was out, its difficult to see how the person who took it also knew  the correct  PIN. 
Mr R suggests that the third party might have shoulder-surfed him and then taken the card. 
So Ive looked  at when the card was first used and have found  that Mr R made a balance 
enquiry at around 4.30pm.  The card was next used some five and a half hours later when 
just £10 was withdrawn.  Mr R says he lost the card on a night  out before this cash  
withdrawal was made, because he didnt make  any cash withdrawals using the card.  I 
consider it unlikely that someone observed Mr R entering his PIN that afternoon and then 
Ref: DRN27931253followed him around for several hours on the off-chance that there might  be an opportunity  to 
take the card later, or that Mr R might  lose it. 
Mr R didnt report the card as lost or stolen until some nine days  later. But Id have expected  
him to tell Barclays about this as soon as he noticed  the card was missing. Im satisfied that 
Mr R was in regular contact with Barclays during that nine day period, so had every 
opportunity to do so.
Even though  Mr R told us that he didnt make any of the withdrawals from his account during 
those nine days, Im satisfied that his genuine card was used in a Barclays  branch and the 
correct PIN entered. The person that did this also produced  Mr Rs passport and a Barclays' 
letter. This was three days  after Mr R said hed lost the card. Im not persuaded that an 
unknown third party would have been  in possession of the letter from Barclays  about  the 
refund, or Mr Rs passport, so I think Mr R was in possession  of his card at that time.
I know Mr R will be disappointed but, after taking account of all the evidence,  I find on 
balance that he himself authorised the disputed  withdrawals.  It follows that Barclays  is 
entitled to hold him liable for them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019. 
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2793125