K820x#14complaint
Miss S, under the Power of Attorney, complains on behalf Mrs S, her mother, about the sale 
of an over 50s whole of life plan by Phoenix Life Limited (the business).  
She says the premiums  paid in by her mother far exceed the sum assured.  
background
In April 1984, Mrs S took out the plan with £1,374 life cover at a fixed cost of £6.21  a month. 
The policy was arranged for life and designed to pay out the sum assured on death. 
Mrs S is unhappy that to date she has paid in £2,500  over a period of 34 years.  
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary she said:
This was a non-advised sale and was therefore up to Mrs S to make sure the plan 
was suitable for her needs. 
The policy documentation  that wouldve been  provided  including  the key features 
document (KFD) wouldve made  reasonably clear the nature and operation of the 
policy. 
She was satisfied this wasnt a funeral  insurance  plan instead  provided fixed  life 
cover. 
So whilst it might appear  unfair,  the business wouldve been obliged  to pay out the 
sum assured  if shed  died in the early years. 
Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators  conclusions and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary,  she said:
If the policy had been sold now itd be classed  as mis-sold. 
When her mother took out the policy her sister had just been diagnosed with a brain 
tumour and her father was seriously  ill too. 
If she lives for another 10 years  which she is unlikely to, shell only get back  the sum 
assured whilst the business will keep almost the same amount plus the interest  
accrued over the 40 years.  
Shes been on forums  where  policyholders share  the same view as hers and she 
cant understand why the businesses are allowed  to get away with it. 
Our adjudicator explained that we have to consider the case  in light of the rules  as they 
existed then and not now. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN25143862On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Miss S says, Im not persuaded 
that the business has done anything wrong  in the circumstances.  
Before I explain further why this is the case, its important for me to note I recognise  Mrs Ss 
strength of feeling  about this matter.  And Im extremely  sorry to hear about her poor health. 
Miss S has provided detailed submissions on Mrs Ss behalf  to support the complaint, which  
Ive read and considered carefully.  However, I hope Mrs S wont  take the fact my findings 
focus on what I consider  to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Miss S and the business, and reach what  I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, Im satisfied that the plan was taken out on a direct  basis. In 
other words it was sold without financial advice. Its likely Mrs S bought  the plan in response  
to an advert  or telephone call  as a result Im unable to consider the suitability of the plan.   
Im aware that mis-selling can take place based on the nature  of advertising and the 
representations contained within. But in this instance Im satisfied that the documentation   
thats more likely than not  to have been supplied  to Mrs S before she accepted the plan 
were clear, fair and not misleading.  
I think the documentation wouldve made  reasonably clear the amount payable  upon claim. 
And because the plan had a fixed sum assured  and premiums, it was possible that more  
could be paid in than paid out in the event  of death. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that the onus was on Mrs S to make  sure the plan was suitable 
for her circumstances. I note she wouldve been given cancellation rights,  in case  she 
changed her mind.   
Mrs S is likely to be disappointed with the potential  surrender value if she decides to cash in 
the plan early. Shes permitted to cancel anytime  but is likely to get back  less than what she 
paid in  because the plan is designed  to provide life cover. 
If Mrs S didnt  read the documentation  provided  I dont  think the business can be held 
responsible for that. Its possible Mrs S misunderstood that owing to medical advancement 
people were living longer, and therefore  her prediction of how long she might  live for was 
wrong, but that doesnt mean the business has done anything wrong in this case. 
Its important to note the surrender values arent a full refund of all the premiums paid since 
the policies began. The premiums Mrs R has paid have been used to cover the cost of 
insuring her life since the policies began,  and the expenses Aviva  has incurred setting up 
and administering  the policies. 
Ref: DRN25143863I understand that the plan sum assured and premiums were fixed from the outset based  on a 
number of factors including Mrs Ss age, sex, health  and mortality  tables. I note Mrs S paid a 
relatively large sum of money  over the period  of 34 years shes  had the plan  
But if Mrs S lived longer than her predicted  age (whether it be 83/85 or more), it was a 
natural consequence that she would have paid substantially more than the sum assured. But 
had she died before  then,  the plan wouldve paid out more than the amount of premiums 
paid in. Thats just how these plans operate and isnt unique  to the business.  
Whilst I appreciate Mrs Ss frustration Im unable to require the business  to do anything 
because I dont think it has done  anything wrong.  
In conclusion, this was a non-advised sale, as I think  it was, and sufficient policy 
documentation was provided that made  reasonably clear the nature and operation of the 
plan, Im not persuaded the plan was mis-sold. 
I appreciate Mrs S will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as the adjudicator.  
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what she wants to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable  to uphold this complaint and give her 
what she wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019..
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2514386