K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Lloyds  Bank PLC, trading as C&G, mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI).  To keep things simple,  Ill refer mainly to Lloyds.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs T bought PPI in 2000  with their original  mortgage. They topped up this PPI 
policy by adding more  cover in 2006  when taking out more  borrowing (a further advance). 
It looks like they applied  for both the mortgages and PPI policies in a bank branch.
Its important to say this PPI only provided cover for Mr T, for accident, sickness,  and 
unemployment. I say this because Mr and Mrs T raise points of complaint  that involve 
Mrs Ts circumstances   but she was never named on either  policy,  so Im afraid these 
points arent  relevant. 
The first element of cover, in 2000, cost £12.10 and would have paid up to £378.77 in the 
event of a successful claim. This increased by £12.68 for the second sale,  in 2206, and 
would have paid up to another £367.01 if successfully claimed.  At the time(s), Mr T was 
employed as a punch operator and then as a warehouse operative. He says he was entitled 
to up to some sick pay, which Ive considered  carefully when  thinking  about their complaint. I 
understand he was in good health at the time of the sale.  
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ts representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs T 
wouldnt have taken  out the PPI and the complaint should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs Ts 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The PPI excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the PPI was of inherently poor value as shown  by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs T about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs T and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The PPI only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-  term transaction  cover would stop at the time it would  
be most needed; and
Ref: DRN25852982The information Mr and Mrs T received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
The PPI ended when  the policyholder became 65.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs T disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
The first sale took place in 2000 before the General Insurance  Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The second  mortgage, in 2006,  was arranged after mortgage lending  became regulated  in 
October 2004  as such all Mr and Mrs Ts borrowing  became an FCA regulated mortgage. 
That means the unfair relationship provisions  set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
the Supreme Court  judgment in Plevin  about  s.140A  of that Act and the rules and guidance 
made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
Ref: DRN25852983The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs T with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the PPI was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the PPI, including 
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the PPI and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs T, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs T 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN25852984Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs T 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs T know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional  and I think  theres plenty of evidence of this. 
In accordance with my knowledge and experience of these sales  of which  Ive seen many 
 Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage applications  contained question  about having PPI. So, for 
example, their first application had a box to tick if PPI was something they wanted to add. 
Obviously consumers like Mr and Mrs T could have  left this section unticked,  but on their 
application form I see they indicated that PPI in respect of Mr T was something they wanted 
to add on. I see he then went  on to confirm  this choice in a separate PPI application form 
which he signed. He also set up a direct debit  asking  for the monthly premiums  to be paid 
from his bank account. This was all repeated  again  largely via the same  process   in 2006.
So, whilst I accept this was all a long time ago, I think theres very strong evidence indeed  
that PPI was something they wanted  to have in respect of Mr Ts earnings. Mr and Mrs T 
knew the PPI was optional and they agreed  to take it out, twice, without undue  pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds concedes that advice was provided  during the sales.  This means it had to advise Mr 
and Mrs T with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether the PPI was appropriate or 
suitable given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meetings, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether PPI was a suitable  recommendation  for Mr 
and Mrs T. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Ts financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage applications. But although  a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs T had a need  for the PPI 
 by asking questions about  their wider circumstances such as any health  issues and 
existing means  I dont  think  it did enough  to ensure PPI was suitable. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs T given  their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill during both sales.
However, while Im not persuaded Lloyds  did all it should have  done  to make sure the PPI 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs T, I do think  its more  likely than not that the PPI was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr T met the eligibility criteria.
-Mr and Mrs T had a need for the PPI  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ts ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if Mr 
T was not working for an extended period of time even allowing for some of the other 
limited means and protections they enjoyed.
Ref: DRN25852985-The monthly cost of the PPI appears  to have been affordable  for Mr and Mrs T.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the PPI unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs T. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ts employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the PPI (including: the any similar  
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr T be disabled  or unemployed 
for 60 days before they could make  a claim and the fact the PPI would only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the PPI still provided valuable 
cover given:
Mr Ts circumstances,  including their employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  they might expect  to provide an income during the PPIs 60-
day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which mean  the 
PPI could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the PPI protected the mortgage  repayments relating to their home 
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs T be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs T sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policies to enable  them  to understand what 
Lloyds was recommending to them  and make an informed decision about  whether to follow 
that advice and take out the PPI.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that on each occasion Mr and Mrs T were  given  a broad 
description of what the PPI was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would  protect their 
payments if Mr T were  unable to work  through  accident,  sickness  or unemployment)  and of 
the approximate  costs. I have reached  this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs T would have taken out either policy without any sense of what  the policy  was for and of 
how much  the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs T agreed to the cover.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the PPI was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs T Im not persuaded Lloyds 
did enough to present  information about  the policies it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs T all of the 
information they needed to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ts representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
Ref: DRN25852986information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ts. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ts representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs T about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ts representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs T suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  
codes and standards of good industry  practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs T? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs T suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold PPI to Mr and Mrs T. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs T 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs T would have still taken out the PPI, had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
PPI it recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs T, I have found that the PPI was ultimately 
suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs T suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs T would  have  acted differently, or whether they would have  taken out PPI in any 
event. Mr and Mrs T say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should  presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the PPI, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs T had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mr 
T was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment,  they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
Ref: DRN25852987As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances  at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them. It 
seems likely Mr and Mrs T would have  been  told the cost before the policy  started and they 
paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs was significantly at odds with their 
expectations at the point  of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds at the 
time, or reconsidered  their decision. Overall,  Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs T would  have 
found the cost unacceptable if they had been  given the exact figure during the meeting  in 
which they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs T thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  was the following:
The PPI excluded claims  relating to medical  conditions that Mr T knew about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The PPI limited, and in some situations, excluded  unemployment  cover  if Mr T wasnt 
a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr T be unable to 
do their own job, a similar job or any paid work  which their experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified them to do;
The PPI protected  payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs T pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs T from taking out PPI. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the PPI 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr T was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr T 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr T didnt have  any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think they had some good  
reasons to take the policy out. He was also several years away  from being 65 years old.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs T would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without  first providing 
some evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr and Mrs T had known they could only claim for disability if Mr T was unable to do both 
his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  reasonably  
become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr T was unable  (through disability) to 
carry on their own occupation the chances that they would  be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN25852988Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs T that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they had limited means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs T would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr T be unable to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home  was not placed  at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs T would still have taken  out the PPI. The policies were suitable for 
them, they were sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting  and 
provided benefits that would help them manage the consequences if Mr T was to be made 
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs T would have taken out PPI notwithstanding the limitations 
on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ts representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there was 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs T would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs T found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs T believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  
process was immaterial, that the flaws in this case was highly material and we have  failed to 
give proper weight to the evidence  including their own comments  that they would not have 
taken out the PPI. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs T in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the PPI. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the PPI, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
Ref: DRN25852989out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policies 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs T compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs T think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the PPI in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs T, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2000  and 2006 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ts representative says a court  might take 
if it was to find Lloyds  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs T and about the 
remedy a court might award if it was to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs T in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2585298