K821x#15complaint
Miss S says Provident  Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma)  irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background
This complaint is about six high-cost short term credit instalment  loans  that Satsuma 
provided to Miss S from January 2016 onwards. Miss S last loan was provided in 
February 2018. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss S complaint  and thought that she shouldnt have been  provided 
with loan 6. Satsuma didnt respond  to our adjudicators assessment. So the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Miss S, I think that Satsuma 
should reasonably have  seen that Miss S was unlikely to have been able to make  her 
payments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan 6. 
Ref: DRN29370472I say this because  by this stage, Miss S pattern  of borrowing was indicative of this loan 
having become  unsustainable for her. Shed previously been  provided with new loans shortly 
after repaying previous  ones.  And this pattern had now continued over an extended number 
of loans and over a period of over two years. Im not persuaded that Miss S having repaid 
loan 6 means that it was sustainable for her or that it was fair and reasonable for Satsuma to 
have provided  it in the first place.
Miss S had to pay interest and charges on a loan that Satsuma shouldnt have provided her 
with. So I think that she lost out and Satsuma should put things  right.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss S paid on loan 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all reference to loan 6 should  be removed  from Miss S credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Miss S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss S complaint.  Provident Personal 
Credit Limited should pay Miss S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2937047