K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK plc didnt tell him that his loan account would be 
defaulted and that this would affect  his credit  file.
background
Mr S had a personal loan with Santander  but he missed a payment. Santander tried to 
contact him but Mr S says he didnt hear anything from the bank until the account  had been 
defaulted. Mr S wants Santander to remove the default from his credit file as hes having 
difficulty getting credit.
Santander isnt willing to remove the default,  which it said was correctly registered  on Mr Ss 
file. But it accepted that the default  shouldve  been registered sooner, and said it would 
arrange for the date to be altered. It also paid Mr S £75 in recognition of the mistake.
Our investigator didnt  think Santander  needed  to do anything  else.  He was satisfied that 
Santander tried to contact  Mr S when hed missed a loan repayment. And when the loan was 
due to end, Santander wrote  to Mr S at the address it held for him on its systems,  to tell him 
that the loan would default and this could  affect  his credit file. 
As Santander hadnt done anything wrong,  the investigator didnt  consider  the bank was 
responsible for the fact that Mr S didnt receive its letters.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that Mr S missed  a loan repayment in January 2017. So Ive thought about 
what Santander did once  the payment was missed.
From what  Ive seen, Im satisfied that Santander tried to phone  Mr S in February 2017 but 
was told by a third party that Mr S wasnt living at the address it held for him.
Santander then wrote to Mr S at the address  it held for him in April 2017, to tell him that the 
balance of the loan was outstanding. Further letters were sent in June 2017  to warn Mr S 
that legal  action may be taken against  him if he didnt pay what he owed, and that the default 
was going to be registered with credit reference agencies.
In fact, Santander didnt register the default until later in 2018, and its accepted that it 
shouldve done  so in July 2017. Its agreed  to alter the date, and has paid Mr S £75.
I dont think Santander  needs to do anything  else. I accept that Mr S may not have  received  
the banks letters,  but Im satisfied that it wrote  to him at the address it held for him on its 
records. Theres nothing to suggest that Mr S told Santander to write to him at a different 
address.
Ref: DRN23862042As Im not persuaded that Santander is at fault,  I wont be asking it to remove the record of 
the default from Mr Ss credit file.
Ive noted what  Mr S has told me about  his health problems, and I am sympathetic to these. 
But what  hes told me doesnt alter my overall  conclusions about the complaint on this 
occasion.
my final decision
My decision  is that if it hasnt already done so, Santander UK plc should pay £75 to Mr S and 
correct the date of registration of the default on his credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2386204