K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) wont  pay a claim she made under her 
travel insurance policy for baggage delay.
background
In July 2018 Miss L travelled abroad.  When she returned to the UK, her baggage was 
misplaced by the airline and she was without it for six days.  Miss L made a claim  for 
baggage delay; she thought her travel insurance policy paid out £25 for every  12 hours her 
baggage was delayed, up to a maximum of £250.
AXA wouldnt meet  her claim. It said that the baggage section of Miss Ls policy didnt 
include baggage  delays on a return journey.
Miss L complained. She said the policy  schedule was extremely misleading as it didnt 
state the cover was only in relation to outbound journeys. She explained that shed chosen 
the level of cover she had, because the airline she was flying with didnt have a good 
reputation for baggage handling.  AXA pointed  Miss L to the wording of the policy  and said 
cover is only provided during the outward journey.
The relevant  section of the policy read:
Section  E - Baggage
2. We will also pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule  of benefits, for the 
emergency replacement  of clothing,  medication  and toiletries if your baggage  is temporarily  
lost in transit during the outward journey  and not returned to you within 12 hours, as long as 
we receive written confirmation  from the carrier,  confirming  the number of hours  the baggage 
was delayed.
Miss L told us that being without her baggage for 6 days was a massive inconvenience  and 
that shed had to purchase emergency  items.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Ls complaint. She said the schedule Miss L referred to 
was a schedule  of benefits setting  out the maximum benefits a policyholder  would be able to 
claim under the policy. She didnt expect this table to detail what was and wasnt  covered. 
And she thought  it clear  the policy would only cover  delayed  baggage during the outward 
journey.
Miss L disagreed with the investigators view and her complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not upheld  Miss Ls 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as our investigator. I realise  my decision will likely 
disappoint Miss L, but Ill explain my reasons.
An insurer  is entitled to decide what risks it will or wont insure. So long as this is made  clear  
to consumers this is something we wont  normally  interfere with.
Ref: DRN29616872Miss L feels  very strongly  that the information  she was given about what  was covered was 
unclear. Ive seen  a copy of the Key Facts document that Miss L would have seen and the 
policy wording. The Key Facts document includes a schedule detailing  the maximum 
benefits. It says that for baggage delay the maximum  benefit  is £25 after each 12 hour 
period up to £250. This schedule doesnt detail which  circumstances are covered, but I 
wouldnt expect it to state that only outbound journeys are covered under this section  the 
schedule is only detailing  the maximum amounts payable  and any excesses which  apply.
I also wouldnt expect the Key Facts  document to specify that return  journey  baggage delays 
werent covered.  I dont  think its unusual for baggage delay cover to apply  to outward 
journeys only  and the intention of this section of a policy is to provide money for the 
purchase of essential  items if baggage goes missing while the policyholder  is abroad, as 
they are away from home without easy access to alternatives. So I dont  think  I can fairly  say 
AXA should  have pointed this out.
Turning to the policy wording I think its sufficiently clear that the cover was for outward  
journeys. Its also clear that the insurance  period ended when Miss L returned to her home 
at the end of her trip.
Miss L was sent the schedule and policy wording  and given an opportunity to check that the 
cover was right for her before she travelled. And it was for her to check that the policy met 
her needs  in light of her concerns about  her airlines  baggage handling.
So I conclude that AXA did enough  to bring  to Miss Ls attention the extent  of the baggage  
delay cover, and I cant reasonably ask AXA to meet  this claim.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and I make  no order  against AXA Insurance  
UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Beth Wilcox
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2961687