K820x#14Complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) failed to help her, in line with 
the rules on persistent debt. 
Background
Mrs M has a credit  card with Halifax and has maintained the minimum payment for an 
extended period  without  making additional  payments  to reduce the outstanding balance. 
In July 2018 Halifax sent Mrs M a letter about her account and she decided to close the 
spending facility  on her credit card and continued  to make the monthly  payments.  
In November 2018 Mrs M contacted Halifax again  and asked for assistance  to allow her to 
repay the outstanding balance. Mrs M wanted  Halifax to reduce the interest rate to 0%. 
Halifax completed an income and expenditure assessment but found Mrs Ms outgoings 
were higher  than her income. As a result, Halifax said it couldnt  agree a payment plan. But 
Halifax said it would agree to refer the credit card to its collections  department  and allow 
Mrs M to make  reduced payments on the basis that her account  would be defaulted. Halifax  
later agreed to waive some interest  and Mrs M continued to maintain the normal minimum 
payment as she didnt  want  any adverse information to be reported on her credit  file. 
Mrs M complained but Halifax  didnt  agree  it had failed to treat her fairly while she was in 
persistent debt. Halifax did agree it made  some  mistakes when responding to her complaint 
and paid her a total of £110 but it didnt offer to reduce  Mrs Ms interest rate. Mrs M referred  
her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. He thought  Halifax  had 
treated Mrs M reasonably and dealt with her complaint fairly. As a result, he didnt ask 
Halifax to do anything  else and Mrs M asked to appeal. In March 2020 Halifax agreed to 
reduce the interest rate on Mrs Ms credit card so she can repay the outstanding debt 
quicker. As Mrs M asked  to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make  a 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs M is concerned that Halifax failed to follow the rules that came into effect  in 
2018 regarding  persistent  debt. Mrs M explains that she asked Halifax to waive interest  on 
her credit card debt to allow her to repay the balance quicker. But the information  Ive seen 
indicates Halifax has followed  the guidelines and Im satisfied  it has tried to treat Mrs M 
positively and sympathetically. 
The persistent debt rules  set out three key milestones  18 months, 27 months and 36 
months. Each milestone requires lenders to take a different approach to the debt in question 
and offer different options. The regulations say that after 36 months in a persistent debt 
position, a lender should consider forbearance measures, like reducing the interest rate. But 
prior to the 36 month milestone thats  not a step businesses  are required to consider. 
When Mrs M called  Halifax  in November  2018 she wanted to discuss options for repaying 
the debt. But at that point,  the account had reached the 18 month milestone and there was 
no requirement under the rules for it to reduce the interest rate. 
Ref: DRN27066292Halifax did discuss Mrs Ms credit card with her at some length to see what assistance it 
could offer. But businesses can only agree a repayment plan that is shown to be affordable  
to the customer.  In this case,  Mrs M completed a detailed income  and expenditure 
assessment to see what options  were available. The assessment showed that, even without 
taking Halifaxs credit card payment into account, Mrs Ms outgoings were greater than her 
income. That meant Halifaxs options to assist were limited  it couldnt approve a plan Mrs 
M wasnt  able to maintain.  So I dont think it did anything  wrong  when it declined  to put a 
formal payment arrangement in place. 
Ive listened to the call and Halifax explained that as it wasnt  able to agree a formal  payment 
arrangement, Mrs M could make any payment she found affordable  and that it would 
suspend all future interest and charges on an informal  basis. But Halifax  said that option  
meant it would  default Mrs Ms credit  card and report that to the credit  reference  agencies. I 
understand why Mrs M was uncomfortable with that approach, but Im satisfied it shows 
Halifax was willing to work with her to try and ensure the payments were affordable. 
As Ive said above,  the milestones set out in the rules say that after 36 months lenders 
should consider  forbearance options.  Halifax has recently confirmed that in March  2020, 
Mrs Ms credit card account  hit the 36 month milestone which  meant it could offer more  
options to help. Halifax says it agreed  a way forwarded where  by Mrs M could repay the debt 
in 48 months and that it had reduced  the interest  rate to 9.45%. I understand these events  
took place after Mrs M complained but I think they show  Halifaxs options  to assist increased 
once the different milestones were  reached. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs M but I havent  been  persuaded  that Halifax  treated her unfairly 
by declining  her request  to reduce the interest rate on her credit  card in 2018.  Im satisfied  
Halifax reviewed Mrs Ms circumstances  but wasnt able to agree a formal payment plan 
because it wasnt affordable, but it did offer to accept  reduced payments as part of an 
informal arrangement.  I understand that would  have impacted Mrs Ms credit file but I think  it 
shows Halifax was willing to work with her and has treated her positively and 
sympathetically. 
Halifax paid Mrs M £110  in total because of errors it made when responding to her 
complaint. I think £110 fairly reflects the impact  of the service provided by Halifax  so Im not 
telling it to increase  its offer. As Im satisfied Halifax  has dealt with this complaint  fairly Im 
not telling  it to take any further action.  
 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2706629