K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2002. Mr S says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
The card and policy were  originally sold by Egg, but Canada Square  has taken 
responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint, so Ill refer to Canada  Square in my 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr S says he doesnt ever recall  being given the option to take or decline PPI. But I think 
Canada Square  made it clear  that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he doesnt remember  this as it was so long 
ago. Mr S applied for his credit  card and PPI online, and Canada Square has shown that 
Mr S wouldve  been  presented with two options  - to take PPI or to decline it. Both were  
equally prominent, and Mr S wouldve had to select an option  before he could complete 
his application.  And I havent seen anything to suggest that Canada Square wouldve 
sold Mr S his card and policy in a different  way to its usual process. 
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr S got the information  he needed to decide if it 
was right for him.
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave  Mr S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of him circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it could have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Canada  Square doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
When the policy was sold,  Canada Square  expected to get a high level of commission  
and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about 
that. Because Canada Square didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said, including what  hes said about  having sick pay 
he couldve  relied on to make his repayments. But the PPI couldve paid out on top of, and 
Ref: DRN29165912for longer than Mr Ss existing cover. So this point  doesnt change  my decision, and for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2916591