K822xcomplaint
Ms P complains  that The Royal  Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) unfairly and unreasonably 
reported negative  information about her mortgage account in her credit records. She wants 
the entries removed  and compensation.
 
background 
Ms P had a mortgage with RBS.  She said that the monthly payments had been arranged to 
be taken at the start of the month,  but Ms P noticed  in 2018 that the payments were now 
being taken at the end of the month  without her knowledge. She said that she paid the 
outstanding money  within  the 14 days she said RBS gave  her to resolve matters and looked 
to move to another lender. Ms P said that RBS reported negative  information about the 
mortgage account to the credit reference agencies, which caused difficulties with 
remortgaging. She said that RBS had said it shouldnt have made  the reports, but they 
hadnt been removed.
Ms P complained to RBS.  It said that Ms P asked to change the direct debit date to the 1st of 
the month in 2018  payment was usually made on the 28th. Its staff explained that this 
would mean  Ms P would have to make two payments close  together in time (so she didnt 
change the date), but failed to suggest changing the date to the end of the month  which 
wouldve helped Ms P. 
RBS said that in June 2018 the direct  debit bounced, but Ms P called a few days  later to 
make payment manually  and change the payment date to the end of the month. RBS noted  
Ms P then applied on the same day for a new product, but was rejected as it needed five 
working days to remove the arrears  from its internal  systems.  It said now the arrears  had 
been cleared,  Ms P could  reapply. RBS apologised,  waived the missed  direct debit fee of 
£35 and said Ms Ps credit records shouldnt show three late payments as shed paid within  
the 14 day grace period. It also paid £21.60 for the cost of Ms Ps calls,  £50 compensation 
and said it would remove the negative entries.  RBS noted that Ms P had been offered a new 
product, but hadnt accepted it so wasnt willing to pay compensation for the period shed 
been on the standard variable interest  rate (SVR).
Ms P complained to us, saying that she hadnt  accepted RBS  offer of a new product as 
other lenders had cheaper rates, but when she applied she was unsuccessful due to the 
negative information  reported by RBS and the extra information the second lender needed 
as a result. She went successfully to a third lender after the information was removed. The 
investigators view was that Ms P was initially told the missed payment wouldnt affect her 
credit records, but they did and stopped  her getting a new product from both RBS and 
another lender when she wanted one to avoid going  onto the SVR.  He thought this caused 
her trouble  and upset  as she had to contact  lenders  and the credit reference agencies  in an 
attempt to sort matters  out. The investigator  thought that Ms P should receive another  £150 
compensation.
Ms P disagreed. She said that the whole  ordeal  was about three months  in length and she 
had to pay more  in the end for her mortgage product. She wanted more compensation. RBS 
agreed with the investigators view.
Ref: DRN22113422my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that RBS shouldve earlier explained to Ms P that while changing her 
direct debit date to the 1st of the month was problematic, changing from 28th to the end of the 
month might help. Theres no evidence that the original agreement was that payments 
should be on the 1st of the month   the direct debit information sent to Ms P stated the date 
would be the 28th. If RBS had done  explained  the full position  to Ms P when she asked  to 
change the payment date, its more likely than not that the direct debit in June 2018 wouldnt  
have bounced.  And RBS accepts that it shouldnt have  reported to the credit reference  
agencies three missed payments.
My role isnt to punish businesses for making  mistakes; my role is to ensure consumers  are 
put into the position that they shouldve been  in if the error hadnt happened. It appears  that 
the negative information has been removed. This leaves the issue  of compensation. First,  
did Ms P suffer financial loss as she wasnt able to take out a new mortgage  product when 
she first wanted?  Im satisfied that the call costs have been  fairly and reasonably  
compensated. Ms P said she applied first to RBS and was unsuccessful  due to the negative 
entries in its internal system. I think its more  likely  than not that if the entries werent there, 
she wouldve accepted  the offer from RBS as she hadnt shopped around other lenders by 
that point.
Ms P later was offered  a product by RBS, which she didnt accept. She decided  to explore 
the options with other  lenders. That was her choice. But she didnt accept an offer from the 
second lender  as they asked too many questions about the negative entries by RBS,  though  
it was willing  to consider the matter. Ms P ended up with a third lender  and says she took out 
a product which was more  expensive than that potentially on offer from the second lender. 
She has only provided a mortgage illustration, and not proof of the product she took out.
My view is that it was Ms Ps choice to go to the third lender, rather than answer  the second 
lenders questions. And I remain  of the view that if RBS hadnt made its initial mistake, its 
more likely than not Ms P wouldve  taken out its product and not shopped around.  
Effectively, I think its likely that Ms P got the benefit of a new round of deals on offer as she 
spent time talking to lenders. But Ms P was given  the option to take out a RBS product and 
she chose to refuse. If Ms P had accepted RBS offer, she wouldve been  in the position that 
she shouldve been in all along. I dont think its fair or reasonable for Ms P to receive 
compensation for any possible  financial  loss as a result.
This leaves  the issue of compensation  for trouble and upset. Ms P had to contact the credit 
reference agencies  and was given incorrect information by RBS, who initially denied  making 
negative reports in her credit records. She also was unable to change her mortgage product 
when she first wished. I dont think £50 compensation  is fair or reasonable. While money 
never truly compensates for trouble and upset, and we dont measure such concepts in 
terms of time alone, I think  Ms P should  receive  more. Having considered  all the evidence, 
the guidance of this service and all the circumstances of this case, I think  another £150 is 
fair and reasonable. Ms P has been inconvenienced, but there isnt evidence  justifying a 
higher level of compensation.
Ref: DRN22113423my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc should 
pay Ms P another £150 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or reject my decision before 7 March  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2211342