K821x#15complaint
Ms A is unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited has dealt with her claim under her 
buildings and contents insurance policy.
When I refer to Aviva Im also referring  to any of its appointed representatives.
background
Ms A made a claim for storm damage  to her house  to Aviva in December 2017.  Aviva sent 
an expert to inspect the damage.  The report said that Ms As roof wasnt  in a very good 
condition and the damage had happened  gradually.  It hadnt been caused solely by the 
storm. Ms As house had also suffered some internal damage as a result of water leaking 
through, in particular the carpet in some areas and some damage to her bedroom ceiling. 
Aviva concluded  that some of the internal damage  was a result  of gradual ingress of water  
over time. Ms A didnt accept that. She felt the damage had all happened following the storm 
and subsequent damage to her roof. 
Aviva agreed to cash settle the claim for the carpets.  This has been paid to Ms A already. Its 
also agreed to cash settle to allow  Ms A to re-wallpaper her bedroom and arrange  for the 
coving to be fixed. It offered £550 for the re-wallpapering  and £189.40 to allow  Ms A to have 
the coving fixed. These amounts have been  accepted by Ms A, but the settlements havent 
been paid. It offered Ms A £175  in compensation for some delays during the claim.
However Ms A is unhappy that Aviva wont compensate her for loss of rent. Ms A is also 
suffering from discomfort and pain which she says was caused because  she had to remove  
the bedroom furniture by herself. 
Ms A brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator said that she thought Aviva had 
made some mistakes  in handling Ms As claim, but its proposed resolution and cash  
settlement offers  were reasonable. She didnt think that Ms As sole reason for any 
discomfort now was because shed  had to move her furniture herself.  She has an existing 
condition which has always caused  discomfort  so its difficult to say how much the furniture 
removal contributed  to that. She also said that Ms A wasnt entitled to any loss of rent 
payment.
Ms A remained unhappy so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Following an initial review  of everything provided I asked Aviva to increase its compensation 
award to £350.  It agreed to this, but Ms A hasnt accepted.  She was happy with the 
increased compensation but said her loss of rent claim should also be paid. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I will be asking Aviva to 
do something more. Ill explain why.
Ms As claimed for storm damage to her house in 2017. But it seems  that both parties have 
agreed that the storm wasnt the main reason for the external damage  caused. Ms As roof 
was poorly maintained and the storm that happened  only highlighted the poor condition  of 
Ref: DRN24321462the roof. So all I need to decide on is how Aviva  has handled  the claim for the internal 
damage in Ms As bedroom.
Aviva needed to remove some of Ms As bedroom ceiling tiles to conduct an asbestos  check  
on them.  Whilst removing the tiles Avivas contractor caused  some damage to the wallpaper, 
which it agreed to replace. But the bedroom  furniture  needed  to be removed. Ms A has told 
our service  that she told Aviva she wouldnt be able to remove the furniture due to an 
existing medical condition. Whilst Avivas notes  dont confirm  this to be the case, it has 
accepted it should have  done more at this time to help Ms A. I wouldve expected  Aviva  to 
offer to remove the furniture for Ms A at this point. Because of Ms As condition Ive no doubt 
that removing  the furniture  caused  her further  discomfort and would have been a difficult  
thing for her to do. But the medical  notes shes provided confirm  shed been  in discomfort for 
some time so I dont  think its fair to say Avivas responsible for the pain Ms A is saying that 
shes feeling now. 
Once the bedroom was cleared Aviva wallpapered  the room. A couple of months later Ms A 
called Aviva to say that there was an issue with some  of the wallpaper that had been  hung. 
Aviva returned to Ms As house to re-paper the affected areas.  During the visit Ms A also 
pointed out some cracked coving that she asked  to be replaced. Aviva  said it felt the coving 
had cracked due to shrinkage and didnt offer to replace it at this stage.  The re-papering 
wasnt successful and Ms A has provided photographs to show the wallpaper has peeled 
away from the walls in several areas. Some of the photos show areas  of mould  on Ms As 
walls and on the back of the wallpaper. Aviva said this indicates  that the bedroom walls  are 
suffering with damp, which  isnt covered by this claim. The experts  report  in December 2017 
confirms that the external walls of Ms As house  are saturated  and there is damp evident in 
multiple areas. The bedroom ceiling was stained due to damp and had had previous  repairs 
carried out on it. Im satisfied that the damp in Ms As bedroom walls has been present for 
some time and isnt as a result of the storm. Ms A will need to arrange  for the walls to be 
dried out before re-papering the room.  
Because of this, Aviva has offered to cash settle  to allow Ms A to re-wallpaper once the 
remedial work has been  completed. Its also offered to cash settle so that the coving can 
also be replaced. This is reasonable in the circumstances  as Ms A needs to dry the walls 
first and has to arrange that herself.  Only at that point  can she then have  the bedroom       
re-decorated. 
However, I would  have expected Aviva to have  highlighted the dampness  in Ms As bedroom 
walls a lot sooner. Even if I accept that it didnt need  to check  the walls for dampness  before 
wallpapering for the first time, I dont think its unreasonable  to expect it to check for 
dampness when  it had to re-visit  Ms As house  a couple of months  later. Some  of the 
wallpaper had peeled away from the wall suggesting an underlying issue.  Had it checked the 
walls for moisture  at that point, Ms A couldve have fixed the problem earlier  and her 
bedroom would not have  been in the poor condition it is.
Aviva acknowledged  some errors and offered Ms A £175. This took into account a delay in 
declining Ms As claim initially and not offering to remove her bedroom furniture. Im satisfied 
thats a reasonable offer at that stage of the complaint. But I think Aviva has caused further 
delays to Ms A by not checking for damp at the appropriate time.  Im telling Aviva  to increase 
its compensation to a total of £350 because of this. Im not asking Aviva to compensate 
Ms A for loss of rent. Ms A wasnt renting her room  out at the time of the claim and I havent 
seen anything to persuade me that she has lost out since the claim was made. 
Ref: DRN24321463Aviva has offered to move Ms As bedroom furniture back  into the room once shes  
completed the work required. Thats what Id expect  it to do and think  its fair. Ms A will need 
to let Aviva  know once her bedroom is ready  for the furniture  to be returned  to it.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im telling Aviva  Insurance Limited to:
pay Ms A £550 to cash settle  the re-wallpapering of her bedroom;
pay Ms A £189.40 to cash settle the replacement coving;
pay Ms A total compensation of £350 for the delays  during the claim.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2432146