K821x#15Complaint
Mr H complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS)  unfairly 
terminated his hire purchase agreement and charged him for outstanding payments after it 
failed to set up his bank account  details correctly.
Background
Mr H entered into a HPA with VWFS in January 2017. He called  VWFS on 11 January 2018  
to advise of new bank account  details  for repayments. However  he was then contacted to 
say that payment had been  missed.  He says he checked the bank account details with 
VWFS and they were  confirmed to be correct. He says he brought  his account up to date but 
the same  issue happened  again. He says he tried changing  the date of the direct  debit  but 
still his payments werent taken. He says he spoke  to his bank to find out why payments 
weren't being  taken and was told that there  had been no attempt to take payment by VWFS. 
In November 2018, the agreement was terminated  and his car was collected. Mr H says he 
then received a letter  saying he owed  over £4,700 due to non payment. 
VWFS says that Mr H called in January 2018, to change his bank account details and he 
paid his arrears in full at that time. In April, it says Mr H called to say there was a problem as 
the money was in his bank account  but his payments werent being taken. It says it told him 
to speak with his bank. At this time it says Mr H asked to spread his arrears  and he was sent 
an income and expenditure form. This was completed but raised  further questions and 
another form was issued.  In May a payment plan was agreed to clear Mr Hs arrears.
In June 2018, VWFS says it tried to call Mr H about  his arrears but couldnt get through and 
so an email was sent. In July 2018,  Mr H made contact  to say the money had been in his 
account and so payments should have been taken. In August 2018,  Mr H called to say the 
issue may be with the payment date and he also paid some of the arrears and in September  
an agreement was made regarding the repayment  of the remaining arrears. In October 
2018, VWFS called Mr H to say payment had failed  and he was in breach of his agreement. 
The agreement was terminated on 5 November.
VWFS says that Mr H called following receipt of the termination letter.  It says that mistakes 
were made in regard  to updating Mr Hs bank account details but that Mr H was provided 
with enough opportunity to bring his account  up to date.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. He noted  that payment had been missed  by Mr H 
before the change  of account details.  He said that in January 2018, Mr H called VWFS  to 
change his bank  account details and also to pay the arrears amount. From this point all 
direct debit attempts  were unsuccessful but that Mr H had made some payments manually. 
He noted that it was Mr Hs responsibility  to make the payments but he also thought that 
VWFS should have acted  sooner to check the bank account details. He initially 
recommended that the adverse information  be removed from Mr Hs credit  file and that he be 
paid £200 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
However, following  this view a second view was issued. Our adjudicator  said that Mr H didnt 
receive a call in October 2018, prior to the termination being issued, because  VWFS  had 
recorded Mr Hs telephone number incorrectly. He said that payment wasnt  taken in 
September 2018 due to the incorrect bank account  details. Because  of the errors he thought 
it fair that adverse information  be removed  from Mr Hs credit  file in regard to missed / 
returned payments  and that the remaining  balance on Mr Hs account  be waived.
Ref: DRN28647382VWFS didnt  accept our adjudicators view. It didnt think  it fair that the debt should be 
waived due to an incorrect telephone  number  being  recorded and said it wasnt required to 
call customers  who are in arrears  but instead to provide arrears and default letters which  it 
had done. It said Mr H was aware  that payments were needed to prevent the HPA being 
terminated but payments werent made.
VWFS did accept  that mistakes had been  made and offered to pay Mr H £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by these. Mr H didnt  accept  the offer made  by VWFS.
Provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in which  I conclude  the following:
It was discovered after the agreement had been  terminated that the bank account 
details hadnt  been correctly updated  in January 2018 and so the requests for 
payments from that date hadnt been made  from the correct account. This was 
VWFS mistake.
It was Mr Hs responsibility to ensure that his payments were made. However he had 
set up a direct debit and it was reasonable that he would have expected  this to be 
taken on the required  date. He had the funds in his account to make  the payments 
but payment wasnt taken. 
Mr H raised  his concerns in April 2018,  and I think it would have been reasonable for 
the direct  debt details  to have been  checked.  Had this happened, the error may have 
been identified  at that time and the issue resolved.
Further payments  were missed and contact was made about these. Throughout this 
period, Mr H agreed to set up payment plans to clear the arrears and I have nothing 
to suggest that he wouldnt have kept to these. Mr H made some manual  payments 
and again raised  the issue of his payments not being taken. Unfortunately his details 
werent checked and so the issue of missed  payments continued.
In August 2018, Mr H made a payment to clear  part of the arrears and in September  
a further arrangement was made  to repay  the reminder of the arrears.  As the 
underlying issue  with the account  details still hadnt been  identified payments 
continued to be missed. A call was made  to Mr H in October  2018  about the missed 
payment but it has since been identified that the wrong telephone number had been 
input and so Mr H didnt  receive  this call.
Ref: DRN28647383Mr H was kept informed of the situation on his account and he had the opportunity to 
clear the arrears before the agreement was terminated. However he kept making 
arrangements for the arrears to be cleared  and due to VWFS error the payments 
werent taken. He alerted VWFS more  than once to the fact the money was in his 
account and wasnt  being taken but his details werent checked. 
Because of the above, I found the fair resolution was for Mr H to remain  liable for the 
payments he should have  made  for the months he was in possession  of the car (I noted the 
arrears at termination were £1,207.04). And that the reminder of the outstanding balance  
should be waived.  I thought that any adverse information should be removed from Mr Hs 
credit file once the outstanding balance had been paid and that Mr H should be paid £200 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  he had been caused.
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional  decision my findings  remain the same as those  set 
out in my provisional  decision. As I have already set out, I think  the fair resolution is for Mr H 
to remain liable for the payments that were due while he was in possession of the car but for 
the remaining  amount  to be waived and his credit  file to be updated once the outstanding 
balance is cleared. I also think he should  be paid compensation  of £200 for the distress  and 
inconvenience he was caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should:
reduce Mr Hs outstanding balance to reflect the payments Mr H was liable for while 
he had use of the car (arrears at termination are recorded as £1,207.04). Any 
remaining balance should be waived.  VWFS should confirm  the amount now due and 
set up a payment  plan for this if required;
remove adverse information from Mr Hs credit file relating to missed/returned 
payments once his outstanding balance has been  cleared; and
pay Mr H £200 compensation for the trouble and upset he has been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2864738