K820x#14complaint
Mr K says he was mis-sold payment  protection  insurance (PPI) with a credit card. He was 
sold the policy on-line  by Egg in 2002,  but Barclays Bank UK PLC is now responsible for 
these sales. 
Ill refer mainly to Barclays for consistency.
background
Im so sorry this case has taken such a long time to come before an ombudsman. 
Nevertheless, I see Mr K has already been  paid some money  for the commission  Barclays 
received from selling him the PPI. Also, one of our adjudicators looked at this case a while  
ago and told Mr K the complaint about the PPI being  mis-sold in the first place shouldnt  be 
upheld. 
Mr K disagreed and so the complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im not upholding the complaint about the mis-sale. 
Weve seen quite  a few similar  sales to this and as a consequence,  we have a good 
understanding of the procedures that were normally used. We know, for example, that 
consumers like Mr K would  have  had to either agree to, or decline, the PPI when  they were  
making their way through  the on-line form before being allowed to finish their application. 
Barclays says it records show the PPI was added to the credit card during the application 
and that Mr K specifically  asked for it. My experience is that also on his monthly credit card 
statements, PPI was described as credit cover  premium. I think  hed have noticed these 
charges and wanted to know what they were  for if he hadnt  ever asked for the PPI.
On that basis I think its more likely he asked for the cover by ticking a box, although I 
completely accept he doesnt remember  that far back now.
Being an internet process however, I think its reasonable to say this wasnt an advised sale 
and so it was for Mr K to decide for himself whether  or not he wanted  PPI. Barclays duty 
was to provide  clear  enough information for him to make an informed choice.
I cant say he was told everything he ought  to have been told. But I know  it was normal  for 
Barclays to disclose the PPI cost and to briefly set out the policy  rules.  And even if I accept 
Barclays could have  done more, Im afraid  it doesnt  make any difference to what I think.
This is because the evidence  points to Mr K selecting this PPI. He was also eligible for the 
cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these policies. I can 
see he would have  had some sickness cover already with his job and Ive though carefully 
about his wider, personal circumstances. But this doesnt mean the cover wasnt  of use. It 
Ref: DRN28418292could have reduced his credit  card balance by 10% a month for up to a year in the event of a 
successful claim. This would have been  in addition to any other means  he had. So I think  the 
cover was of use and this is probably why he decided to buy it at the time.
For these reasons, I dont  think  Barclays has to pay back  all the cost of the PPI to Mr K. Its 
already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to him because  when the policy was sold it 
expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium). 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium.  I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about  the mis-sale.  And I dont require Barclays  Bank UK 
PLC to pay any more compensation. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already  paid to Mr K the commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2841829