K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC processed a credit card application without his 
permission.
background
Mr K says he attended a Barclays  branch on 7 September 2017 as he wished to open a 
credit card account that he could use for a money transfer. He says the advisor processed 
an application that wasnt suitable and initially  denied having made the application on his 
behalf and without his authority. Mr K says he got married in October  2017  and needed 
money that he says he could have used if he could have opened the right type of credit card 
account. He also says the he made an application for a credit  card at the same time with a 
company I will call V that was refused and believes that was due to Barclays actions.
Mr K says he was told by Barclays that the application would be removed from his credit  file 
but says he found out some time later that it had remained on his file for a year.  He says the 
problem has cost him about £2,000  and that he had to borrow  money  for his wedding from a 
family member which has caused problems  and caused him stress.
Barclays accepts it should have checked with Mr K before proceeding with the credit card 
application. Its apologised and offered Mr K £100  compensation.  It also says it cant  say why 
Mr Ks application for a V credit card was refused and questions  why Mr K took so long to 
complain as the credit search is no longer visible on his credit file.
Mr K brought his complaint to us but our investigator  thought  Barclays  had dealt fairly with it. 
The investigator accepted Barclays had made a mistake but thought the compensation offer 
appropriate. The investigator didnt think it possible to say that would took place affected Mr 
Ks other credit card application  or how Mr Ks credit  file was affected without a copy  of it.
Mr K doesnt  accept that view and says he was given conflicting information about  the credit  
search being on his file for a year. He would like compensation for what  took place.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons.  I realise Mr K will be disappointed  
by my decision.
There is no real dispute  here that Barclays should not have  processed  the credit  card 
application unless  it was sure Mr K wanted  it and authorised it. I appreciate that Mr K was 
concerned about  what  took place and spend some time speaking to Barclays about the 
implications of the application. But Im satisfied Barclays  has apologised and offered what I 
think is a fair and reasonable amount of £100  compensation.
I appreciate that Mr K says he has been given  conflicting information about the application 
remaining on his credit file. But I think Barclays has explained  that the application did remain  
on Mr Ks credit file for 12 months. Mr K says that affected his credit card application  with V 
but I can see that Mr K has told us that he checked his credit file and couldnt see any details 
of the Barclays application.  And I cant be sure that even if V was aware  of the Barclays 
application that would have been  the reason for V declining Mr Ks application. I dont think it 
Ref: DRN22589642possible to say why V declined  the application  and due to the passage  of time neither 
application is available to view on Mr Ks credit file.
Mr K says Barclays  mistake cost him about £2,000. But I cant be sure that was the case. I 
say that as I dont  think it possible to say if Mr K would have been successful in being able to 
open the account he wanted with V and I think it was his decision to borrow  from family 
members.
Overall Im satisfied Barclays has made  a fair and reasonable offer of compensation. I 
understand why Mr K may not wish to accept that offer and so I will leave it to him to decide.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
£100 compensation. Mr Ks acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  by 29 February 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2258964