K821x#15complaint
Ms Gs complaint, in summary, is that Covea Insurance Plc unfairly  rejected her 
accidental damage  claim.
background
I issued a provisional decision, a redacted copy of which is attached. In summary, I upheld  
the complaint  and asked Covea to pay compensation as set out in my provisional decision.
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
the complaint  should be upheld for the reasons given in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Covea Insurance Plc should pay 
compensation to Ms G, as set out in my provisional decision. 
Having said that, I understand that Covea  has already made the payment to Ms G as 
required and she now considers the matter  resolved. So, no further action needs to be taken 
in relation to this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN24611402Copy of the provisional decision
Complaint
Ms Gs complaint,  in summary, is that Covea Insurance Plc unfairly  rejected her accidental  
damage claim.
Background
In early August  last year, Ms G went abroad for two weeks. She says that just before she left, she 
noticed that the freezer  compartment of her fridge freezer had ice built up. This was pushing the 
freezers plastic compartment forward making it difficult to close the door, but she managed  to shut 
the door before  she left for her trip. When she returned she found  the freezer door open, the floor 
of her kitchen was full of residue of melted ice and the fridge  freezer alarm was beeping 
constantly and flashing red.
Ms G contacted Covea to get the unit repaired. She wanted the repair to be carried out by the 
manufacturer, which Covea agreed to. The engineer visited her in early November 2018 but it 
appears that they were not able to complete the repair as additional parts were required. They 
visited again in early  December 2018 and replaced  three sensor units and de-iced the unit. It 
appears that solved the problem  of the constant  beeping and flashing  light, at the time.
The manufacturer charged a total of about £420 for the work, which Ms G paid. She claimed 
this amount from Covea under the contents accidental damage cover. She also made  a claim 
for about £190 for the cost of damaged food items, under the contents cover.
Covea didnt agree to her accidental damage claim.  It accepted  her claim  under contents cover 
in relation to the freezer items but said that the amount claimed was less than the policy excess  
of £350. So, it said that it wasnt required to make a payment on this part of the claim also.
One of our investigators considered Ms Gs complaint  about Coveas refusal to settle her claim 
and did not uphold it. So, on her request, her complaint has been referred to me for a review and 
decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Accidental damage claim
Covea accepts that the door was accidentally  left open. However, it says that the reason for the 
alarm malfunction  (constant  beeping and light flashing) which led to the repair wasnt because 
the door was open. It says that it was due to the build-up  of ice which  was present before Ms G 
went abroad. It says that the build-up of ice was more likely due to wear and tear. It concluded 
therefore that the problem wasnt caused accidentally. It has also argued that there was no 
physical damage to the unit.
I see that Ms G has acknowledged that there  was a build-up of ice before she left. However, in my 
view, that was not what she complained about.  It was the constant beeping and flashing  of the red 
light. There is no evidence that these existed prior to her going abroad.
Ref: DRN24611403Ms G referred us to the two reports  from the engineers  when they visited her in November and 
December 2018. The November report stated: Door was left open for 2 weeks in August when  
cust went  back to property  it was defrosting has shut door but still alarming constantly  turns 
alarm off but starts again.
The December one said: Machine door was left open for period of 2 weeks when  customer  
returned the buzzer was beeping and red light was on Deiced appliance and replaced sensors  
tested to spec 
She says these statements in the reports evidence  that the engineer  considered  the alarm going  
off was due to the door being open. However, I think that the engineer was simply  stating  what Ms 
G told them.
Covea told us that they had several discussions with the manufacturer as to what went wrong.  
However, they are unable to produce any record of their conversations.
So, at my request, our investigator asked the manufacturer whether  they can confirm the likely 
cause of the sensors  needed replacing  whether it was due to the door being  left open or due to 
wear and tear. It told us: After speaking  to a few technicians we believe  that the door being  open 
could have caused the damage.
I appreciate Coveas  point that this is a finely balanced case.  However, given what  the 
manufacturer told us and the fact that the constant beeping  and flashing of light didnt  appear to 
exist before Ms G went abroad, I consider it more  likely that these  problems, which led to the 
damage, were caused  by the door being accidently left open.
Covea says that there was no physical damage but there was damage to the sensors  which was 
why they needed replacement. I consider  that to be physical damage. For avoidance of doubt  I 
dont consider that to be a mechanical  or electrical  breakdown but a damage caused by the door 
being open.
The relevant policy wording  defines  accidental  damage as Unexpected physical damage 
caused suddenly  by an identifiable external means and not deliberate .
In this instance  I consider that there was an unexpected physical damage (damage to the 
sensors). I consider  that it was caused by an identifiable external means  (which was the door 
being open) and that it was not deliberate. 
So, I have provisionally  concluded that Ms Gs claim  satisfies  the required condition for it to be 
successful under the accidental damage cover clause.
Ms G had to pay a total of about  £420  for the work.  Covea suggested that had Ms G agreed to 
work with the repairer  it recommended, the matter  could  have been resolved sooner. But the fact 
remains that it agreed for Ms G to carry out the repair through the manufacturer. So, I consider that 
Covea should pay her this amount, subject to the policy  excess.
Contents cover
Covea has accepted the claim insofar as it relates  to any food in the freezer. Ms G has made  a claim  
for about £190 in relation  to the food items and she has provided the necessary invoices  as 
evidence. Covea has gone through the invoices  and has calculated the costs of the food that could 
possibly have  been in the freezer to be about £80.
I have reviewed the above  figures and on the face of it the calculation appears reasonable.  
However, I am aware that Ms G hasnt yet had a chance to review the calculation. So, I ask Ms G 
to review the above calculation and if she doesnt agree with it, let me know clearly why that is the 
case.
Ref: DRN24611404my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that this complaint should be upheld.
As I understand it, the policy excess is £350 and it includes both the contents  cover and the 
accidental damage  cover. So, in full and final settlement of Ms Gs complaint, Covea should pay 
Ms G as I have set out above less the policy excess.   
I see that Ms G made the payment for the repair  in July 2019 and it was this payment that took 
the total claim amount over the excess. So in effect it was the earliest  date when the balance 
amount was due to Ms G from Covea. Therefore, Covea should also pay interest at 8% simple 
p.a. on the amount due to Ms G from the date of her payment to the date of settlement.
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2461140