K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about his home  insurer Legal  & General Insurance Limited (L&G)
regarding a claim he made for damaged pipes. He says it only did part of the agreed repair.
background
Mr M reported to L&G that he could  smell sewage in his home.  L&G sent out its drain expert  
who determined that there were joint  displacements in the pipe run. It was recommended 
that these be repaired under the insurance policy. The company returned to carry out repairs 
but only did work to rectify  one of two displaced joints. Afterwards it said it had been 
decided, whilst on site, that the second  joint wasnt suffering  damage  because a blockage  
hadnt occurred.  This meant the damage wasnt covered by the policy  and, therefore, wasnt  
for it to fix, so it had only fixed the other  displacement where sewage had been collecting.
Mr M was unhappy and complained. He felt it wasnt fair that not all the agreed work had 
been carried out. When  L&G wouldnt change  it position  Mr M complained to this service.
I considered Mr Ms complaint and thought that L&G was responsible for fixing the second 
displaced joint. I noted it had agreed  joint displacements (my emphasis) were  covered by 
the policy and had begun work to repair them. As I was aware that Mr M was in the process 
of getting work done  I told L&G it was likely it would need to reimburse  his costs in this 
respect. I also said it should  pay £200 compensation. L&G didnt agree.
Mr M duly had work carried out; the contractors report shows  it replaced the whole  drainage 
run  even  the part where L&G had previously repaired  the joint. Mr M obtained a report  and 
an invoice which he provided  to us and which we shared with L&G.
L&G responded to the new evidence but it didnt say anything  about whether the completed 
work was relevant and necessary to fix the displaced joint that it had previously decided  not 
to repair. Having  considered the available evidence I issued a provisional decision. I felt L&G 
should cover  the cost of Mr Ms repairs and pay him interest on that sum if hed paid it. I also 
felt it should pay him £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr M accepted  my findings and provided  proof  hed paid the invoice on 29 November 2018.  
L&G said it stood by the comments made previously. As Mr M accepted  my provisional; 
findings and L&G added  nothing new to give me cause to change  them,  my provisional  
findings are now those of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L&G had an expert consider the pipe Mr M thought was damaged. It found  more than one 
displacement and recommended these were covered  under the policy and should be 
repaired. That repair was then put in place.  From what  its drain  expert has said no new 
evidence became available when it started  repairs; it just changed its mind  about  what work 
was necessary. Having  entered a contract for repair  though,  L&G cant fairly just change its 
mind. Its bound to complete the repairs as agreed.  So Im satisfied  L&G is liable for this 
repair.
Ref: DRN25246912However, Mr Ms contractors didnt just repair the (second) displaced  joint. They replaced 
the whole  length of pipe and installed a gravel bed underneath. Im not convinced that all 
that was necessary.  Im mindful  though that L&G hasnt raised this issue. And Im also 
mindful that Mr M was left with an incomplete  repair which L&G refused to assist him with 
resolving. He was, therefore, left in the position of having to sort this out himself.  And in that
respect he was largely reliant on the drain contractor that he employed to complete the work. 
It says in its report  that replacing the whole run was necessary in order to complete an 
effective repair.
If L&G hadnt refused  to take on this work  then it would  have  been  in control of the repair. As 
it chose to refute its liability  though Mr M had to have the repair carried out and he couldnt 
control what was done. He reasonably  relied  on the drain contractor  to do what was 
necessary. In the circumstances I think  L&G reasonably has to pay for the work completed,  
regardless of whether  it ultimately feels it was necessary to resolve the second displaced 
joint.
The invoice Mr M was asked to pay was for £1,130 (VAT not applicable or included). Im 
going make L&G pay that sum to him. And as Mr M has shown that he paid this sum in 
November 2018  Im going to require L&G to add interest*  to the invoice sum from the date it 
was paid (29 November 2018) until settlement is made.
I accept that L&G not carrying out all of the agreed work was frustrating  for Mr M. I remain  
satisfied that £200 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require Legal & General Insurance Limited to pay Mr M:
 £1,130. plus interest* from 29 November 2018  until settlement is made.
 £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Legal  & General 
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr M, 
it should  tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2524691