K821x#15complaint
Mr S and Mrs K have complained about  the way ERGO Reiseversicherung  AG handled  their 
claim for assistance under their travel  policy when their bag was stolen from their car when  
they were on holiday.
References to ERGO  refer to all their agents.
background
Mr S and Mrs K were  visiting  a country  in Africa  in December 2017  and their bag was from 
stolen from their car containing personal  belongings and money. They were  due to fly on to 
another country in Africa the next day.
Initially when they first contacted ERGO  had difficulty in returning their call due to the fact 
they had to use other peoples phones.  Eventually  contact was made  and ERGO said in 
order to validate  their claim they would need  a police  report of the theft. ERGO also advised 
them to contact relatives so money  could be transferred.
Mr S and Mrs K then made their claim when they got home,  which was settled by ERGO on 
14 February 2018. However, they also complained about the lack of emergency assistance 
at the time.
ERGO believed it had offered all of the assistance it could under the policy  terms. It was 
unaware Mrs K became ill and it doesnt  offer repatriation for theft. Also part of their claim 
wasnt paid because of a lack of evidence  substantiating it.
Mr S and Mr K remained dissatisfied and brought their complaint  to us. The investigator 
thought ERGO had done enough  given the policy terms. Mr S and Mrs K disagreed so their 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 December and I said the following:
This service looks to see if a business  ERGO here,  did something wrong, and if so 
what it did to put things right. And whether that was sufficient bearing  in mind the 
terms and conditions of the policy. If it wasnt enough, then we can require ERGO to 
put things right according to the terms and conditions  of the policy.  We dont award 
damages as a court would, as were  not a court  of law. Were an alternative dispute  
resolution service to court system and therefore aim resolve matters on fair and 
reasonable basis.
Mr S and Mrs Ks bag containing a phone, all payment  cards, money, keys, other 
devices and clothes  was stolen. I can understand that was very distressing since  
they were on a holiday of a lifetime. But ERGO  can only help in these circumstances 
according to the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Primarily Mr S and Mrs K required  some  monetary funds. Under their policy, it 
provides the following:
Section 10 Personal Assistance Services
PLEASE NOTE: this service  is only available  in Comprehensive Cover 
policies.
Ref: DRN24028952What we can provide:  We will pay the administrative  and delivery  costs,  up 
to a maximum of £290 per trip, in providing  the following services  in respect of 
a trip:
b) Transfer  of emergency funds
We will transfer emergency funds  of up to £575 to you in case of urgent need,  
only when access to your normal financial/banking arrangements are not 
available locally, to cover  your immediate emergency needs where 
international money transfer services are available. 
You must arrange  to have the equivalent finds  deposited in our account  
in your home country,  before we can release such  emergency funds.
Its clear to me this wasnt explained  properly to Mr S and Mrs K at the time.  
However, given the currency issues in the country where they were staying, its also 
likely there might well have been  difficulties in actually getting the funds to Mr S and 
Mrs K in any event. But clearly, Mr S and Mrs K were in a significant desperate 
situation. I consider  ERGO failed to explain things  adequately to them or provide any 
rational assistance  to them at this time. This was very distressing for Mr S and Mrs K. 
Therefore, I think ERGO  should pay them some compensation  for this in the sum of 
£250. This is solely for the distress  and inconvenience caused.  
It appears Mrs K was ill. However, neither Mr S nor Mrs K told ERGO this or asked 
them for medical assistance.  Therefore,  I consider its not reasonable to hold ERGO 
responsible for not providing assistance for this.
Mr S and Mrs K didnt actually curtail  their holiday as per the policy conditions as they 
returned home on their intended departure flight.  And theres no cover for such  
curtailment due to theft in any event.  However,  theres no doubt the remainder  of 
their holiday  was ruined  given their lack of money.  Had ERGO lent the assistance  it 
ought to have done at the time of the theft things might have been different. 
Therefore, I consider  ERGO should  pay them a further £250 compensation for the 
loss of enjoyment of the rest of their holiday being so significantly short  of any funds.
ERGO has paid Mr S and Mrs Ks claim in accordance with the policy terms. It has 
waived the excess, which I consider reasonable in the circumstances. And it said it 
would consider reimbursement for parts  of the holiday and various pre-booked  
excursions upon  further proof,  which I also consider reasonable. 
Mr S has made various references to legislation and ERGOs alleged breaches. 
However, theres nothing  wrong with the terms and conditions of the policy which  
ERGO provided and which Mr S and Mrs K chose.  Therefore, I wont deal with these 
issues in this decision. Such issues  are better  determined by the regulator   the 
Financial Conduct  Authority, or indeed a court of law.
ERGO said it wasnt aware this complaint had been  referred to an ombudsman  and it 
thought our file had been closed. Therefore, it said it would only pay 50% of the 
compensation. 
Mr S and Mrs K said the following:
Ref: DRN24028953They had paid extra  for the excess waiver  so ERGO didnt actually waive it;
There was a currency crisis in Zimbabwe. However, this does not apply  to bank-to- 
bank transfers  and withdraws of funds from banks. ERGO simply  didnt assist  them;
They had no money and ERGO said it couldnt  help, so they believed  it wasnt 
possible to get medical assistance. They referred to call recording;
They didnt have  the means to return home  any earlier. But their trip was curtailed, as 
there was no practical way to continue their intended trip as planned.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has dealt  with ERGOs issue  that it didnt know  Mr S and Mrs K had asked 
for an ombudsmans  decision on their complaint. That also has no bearing on their complaint 
so I wont consider it here.
Im appreciative of Mr S and Mrs Ks issues with the service they received from ERGO and 
take on board they paid extra for excess waiver. However, their claim and indeed  complaint 
must fall into the policy terms  and conditions. There is no cover for curtailment due to theft. 
There also was no curtailment as per the policy  terms, as Mr S and Mrs K flew home on their 
original booked flight. And theres  no evidence ERGO were aware Mrs K was ill. The call 
recording referred to concerns the issue of the theft not that Mrs K was also ill additionally. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr S felt ERGO  simply wouldnt help them  at all given the contents of the 
call, it remains ERGO werent told Mrs K was ill.  
Taking everything into account,  I remain of the view that ERGO should  pay Mr S and Mrs K 
the sum of £250 compensation for its failures  in explaining the cover  properly for theft when 
Mr S first called it to report  the theft. And I remain of the view ERGO should  pay them an 
additional £250 compensation for the loss of the enjoyment of their holiday being  so short of 
funds.
It remains that ERGO has paid Mr S and Mrs Ks claim  And it said it would consider 
reimbursement for parts of the holiday and various  pre-booked excursions upon  further  
proof, which I also consider reasonable. 
  
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint for compensation.
I now require ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to pay Mr S and Mrs K a total of £500 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2402895