K822xcomplaint
Mr Ns complaint is about an investment he held in Legal & Generals UK Property Fund  
(the fund) on a platform provided by Alliance  Trust Savings Limited (Alliance  Trust). He 
says he did not receive  any notification from Alliance  Trust of a fair value  pricing (FVP)   
adjustment applied to the fund by its manager.  That adjustment  was initially  - 5% and was 
later increased to -15%. Mr N says Alliance Trust should have  given him notice  of these 
adjustments and that he would have sold before the adjustment was increased, had Alliance 
Trust told him of the initial - 5% adjustment. In the event, he sold after the adjustment was 
increased to -15%. He says Alliance  Trust should compensate him for the difference  
between the initial and increased adjustment.  
background 
The fund is a unit trust, which invests in UK commercial property. It trades each working day. 
A price for its units is fixed by Legal  & General once each day. The fund is priced  on a 
forward basis,  meaning any order to buy or sell units  is put forward  for execution at the 
next available pricing point, and the price  at which the order  was executed will only be 
known once the price  for that day has been published, after execution  has taken place. 
Orders to sell units have  to be with Legal & General by 10:30,  to be executed  at the price  for 
that day. 
After the result of the 23 June 2016 referendum  on EU membership was announced, Legal 
& General gave  consideration to applying a FVP adjustment, to reflect the impact of the 
Brexit vote. On 27 June 2016 Legal & General  announced that it would apply a FVP of        
-5%. That meant those who had given orders to sell after 10:30  on 26 June 2016 would have 
an FVP adjustment  of -5% applied. On 6 July 2016  Legal & General decided  to increase the 
FVP adjustment  by 10%, meaning a total FVP adjustment  of - 15% would  apply for those 
who had given orders to sell after 10:30 on 5 July 2016.
Mr N held units in the fund on Alliance Trusts platform. He gave  an order to sell his units  on 
6 July. So he was impacted by the -15% FVP adjustment. He queried the price his sale order  
had been executed at shortly after the sale had completed. In reply, Alliance Trust said it had 
only been told of the increase to the FVP adjustment on 7 July, so had been unable to notify  
its customers before then. Mr N then asked when  Alliance  Trust had been  told about  the 27 
June FVP adjustment and, whilst awaiting a reply, complained to Alliance Trust. 
Alliance Trust  did not uphold Mr Ns complaint. It said it only received notification  of the FVP 
adjustment after it had been applied, so could not communicate the adjustment in advance  
of it being applied. In its reply  Alliance Trust referred  to being told of the 6 July adjustment  by 
Legal & General on 7 July. But it did not answer  Mr Ns question about  the 27 June 
adjustment. 
After Mr N brought his complaint to us, our investigator asked Alliance Trust about the 27 
June adjustment  on more  than one occasion.  In reply, Alliance Trust referred again  to being 
told about the 6 July adjustment  on 7 July. 
The investigator explained to Mr N that she did not think  his complaint should be upheld. 
She explained that Legal & General  did not give advance notice of applying  or increasing the 
adjustment, so Alliance  Trust  could not have  told Mr N about  an adjustment,  ahead of it 
being applied.  
Ref: DRN25135552Mr N did not accept this view, and pointed out that the investigator had not considered  the 
point he had made about not being  told when  the adjustment was initially applied on 27 
June. 
I issued a provisional decision in November 2018. My provisional findings were:   
I think it is important to say initially that this fund, in common with most collective 
investments of its type, was forward priced. That means Mr N, or any other investor, will not 
receive advance  notice of fund pricing  trades will always  go forward  to the next pricing 
point, and the price  will only be confirmed once the trade has been  executed.  So there was 
no basis on which Mr N could have been given notice  of the FVP adjustment  or the increase 
to it before  they were applied  he could  only be told of the adjustment or increase after it 
had been applied. 
Mr N gave his instruction to sell his units on 6 July 2016  the date the increase to the FVP 
adjustment was made. Alliance Trust could not therefore have given Mr N notice of the 
increase before he gave his instruction to sell. The increase  to the FVP was not known until 
after Mr N gave his instruction to sell. So the remainder of my consideration is focussed on 
the initial adjustment applied on 27 June  before Mr N gave his instruction to sell. 
Alliance Trust  did not initially answer  the question of what it was told by Legal & General 
about the 27 June FVP adjustment and whether it communicated  this to Mr N. Having asked 
it about this, I have established  that it was told about the 6 July increase to the adjustment 
but has no evidence  of being told about  the adjustment initially  being  applied on 27 June. I 
have also established  that it did not send any communication to Mr N to alert him to either 
the adjustment or the increase to it. 
I think it more  likely than not that Alliance  Trust was told about the initial FVP adjustment as 
well as the increase  to it. Legal & General says it would have told all platform  providers,  and 
I think it likely it would  have done  so. So I think Alliance Trust was made aware of both the 
initial FVP adjustment as well as the increase. As mentioned, it didnt alert Mr N to either. 
And I think it could be argued that it would have been good customer  service  for it to have 
done so. But I do not think it follows that it would be fair to say Mr N wasnt aware  of the 
adjustment at all, or that it would be fair to hold Alliance Trust responsible  for the increase in 
the adjustment which Mr N was impacted  by, in any event. I say this for two reasons. 
Firstly, I am satisfied  that the prices published  on Alliance Trusts platform reflected the 
adjustment. So the prices Mr N would have seen on the platform,  and the value of his 
investment, took the adjustment into account. I have asked Alliance  Trust if it has records  of 
Mr N accessing his account after the 27 June  adjustment was applied. In response,  it 
provided an on-line activity log, which shows Mr Ns account being  accessed on 28, 29 and 
30 June and on 1,4 and 5 July, before being  accessed a number of times  on 6 July 2016, 
when the instruction to sell was given. Given this activity, the amount  of media commentary  
at the time about the impact of the Brexit vote on property prices, and the size of the 
investment Mr N held (it was large) I think it more  likely than not that Mr N was monitoring 
the price of the fund. So he would have been aware of the fall in the price  that was brought 
about by the adjustment,  even if he was not alerted to the adjustment by Alliance Trust. 
Secondly, I am not, in any event, persuaded that Mr N would have sold his units  earlier  had 
Alliance Trust  specifically  alerted him to the initial adjustment. I think  this point is being made 
with the benefit of hindsight. I think it likely  Mr N was aware of the value  of his investment 
after the 27 June  adjustment was applied - so he was effectively aware of the adjustment, 
Ref: DRN25135553which was a reduction in value  to reflect the market. The fact he did not immediately sell 
when his investment  value fell following the adjustment suggests the fall in value caused  by 
the adjustment was not the only factor Mr N took into account when considering whether to 
sell his units. It seems he was continuing  to monitor the market, before finally deciding to 
sell, and that the argument that hed have sold earlier if hed been  alerted to the initial  
adjustment  is hence being made with the hindsight  knowledge of the later increase  to the 
adjustment. 
However, I think Alliance Trust could have dealt  with Mr Ns queries and complaint much 
better. It didnt answer all his questions, and it should have explained to him it could not give 
advance notice of pricing adjustments on a forward priced fund, rather  than suggesting there 
was fault on Legal and Generals part for not telling  it about the increase to the adjustment  
until after it had happened. I think Alliance Trust should pay Mr N £300 for the trouble and 
upset caused  by this. But, for the reasons given, I do not think  it needs to do anything  else. 
Alliance Trust  did not accept my provisional findings.  It said,  in summary:
At no point has it suggested there was fault on Legal and General's  part. It has only 
confirmed it was unable  to communicate  the adjustment to Mr N in advance,  as it 
was unaware this would take place until it received an email from Legal and General 
on 7 July 2016.
It does not agree  it could have dealt with Mr N's complaint much better. It was 
explained to Mr N in its final response that Legal & General took actions to ensure 
fair value pricing of property funds, following the EU referendum. It was also 
explained to Mr N that it had received notification of the adjustment  retrospectively  
and therefore  could not have  communicated it to him in advance.
It wanted to reconfirm that it had been unable  to find any evidence that it was notified 
of the 5% FVP adjustment applied by Legal & General.  It also said it was unable to 
find any announcement for the -5% adjustment in the public domain. So it did not 
think it was fair to say it is likely it received notification of the 5% FVP adjustment 
from Legal & General.
Mr N did not accept my provisional findings either.  His reply included  a lot of points about 
Legal & General actions, which are being  looked at separately under another  complaint. In 
relation to Alliance  Trust he said, in summary: 
In the absence of any evidence of notification being made of the first FVP 
adjustment, there is no basis  for me to conclude it was more than likely than not that 
Alliance Trust  was told about the initial  FVP adjustment and to accept Legal & 
General 's statement  that it would have told all platform providers. Legal & General 
has failed to produce a copy  of the notification of the first adjustment when asked for 
one, and Alliance  Trust  has been  unable to confirm  that it received such a 
notification. So it should be concluded that Legal & General did not provide a timely 
notification of the first adjustment to Alliance Trust.
I refer to online session logs immediately following the first adjustment  as evidence  
that he was aware of the change in prices. This line of argument completely ignores 
the fact that while  he was aware the price had dropped, he did not know  this was a 
result of an FVP adjustment being applied by Legal & General. Alliance Trust was 
also unaware of this when he called it to query  why the price had suddenly  dropped.  
Ref: DRN25135554It could only confirm that the price was that set by Legal & General on a forward 
basis, but at no time told him that an FVP adjustment had been made. 
Had he known that Legal & General had made  an exceptional FVP adjustment, he 
would have sold the units immediately and thus avoided  being penalised by the 
second FVP adjustment. 
The financial markets operate on a basis of trust underpinned by information being  
equally available to all investors.  This is not the case in this situation, and investors  
such as him who are deprived of critical information concerning  fund managers  
exceptional actions,  are at a disadvantage.
Alliance Trust  was obliged under its Terms and Conditions to pass  on any corporate 
action to investors. It failed to transmit any notification of either the first or second  
FVP adjustment  made by Legal & General.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have not been 
persuaded to depart  from my provisional  findings.  
I do not think the application of the FVP adjustment was, strictly speaking,  a corporate 
action. The units  in the unit trust were  not shares  in a corporation. But I do remain of the 
view that it would have been  good  customer service for Alliance Trust to have told Mr N, 
Legal & General had applied an adjustment, even if it was not obligated to do so by its 
Terms and Conditions,  if it was told about the adjustment by Legal & General. If it was not 
told about  the adjustment by Legal & General (and I appreciate  both it and Mr N feel that is 
the case) then it clearly  would not have  been able to tell Mr N. And although I said in my 
provisional decision that it is was likely Legal & General told Alliance Trust there  is conflicting 
evidence on this point, so I accept it is possible that it did not. But I do not think this makes 
any difference to what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I say this because  I remain of the view that Mr N was aware  of the adjustment. In his reply to 
my provisional decision he acknowledges he was aware the price of the units  had dropped  
suddenly. And it needs to be remembered  that the FVP adjustment was simply a change to 
the price of the units to reflect the fund managers  view of the value  of the funds underlying 
assets. So Im not persuaded that there is a distinction between an awareness that the price  
of the fund had fallen  by the amount of the 5% adjustment and an awareness of the 
adjustment itself  I think these are one and the same. If Mr N knew of the fall in price then 
he knew of the adjustment.  
I appreciate Mr N feels that the fall in the price being  due to an adjustment being  applied by 
the fund manager was an exceptional thing, and an awareness of the fall being due to such  
an action would have  led him to act differently. But I dont think  Mr N not being aware of the 
technicalities of how the price had been  calculated would have led him to act differently at 
the time.  He knew the units had fallen by the amount of the FVP adjustment. And I think it 
more likely than not that Mr N was aware  that the market conditions  following the Brexit 
vote were exceptional,  even  if he didnt know the precise details of how the fund value  
changes were being brought about  by the fund manager. Mr N accepts  he viewed the first 
adjustment as a sudden drop, suggesting  he knew something unusual was happening. And 
Ref: DRN25135555the frequency with which he accessed his accounts  suggests he was concerned  about  how 
his investment would  be impacted by events.  
So I think Mr N made his instruction to sell the units aware of the previous adjustment  and 
aware of the possibility  that the price might again drop. I do not therefore think it fair to say 
that an awareness of how the price movement had been enacted by Legal  & General would 
have led him to act differently. I can understand Mr Ns disappointment  with the increased 
fall in the value of his units after he gave his instruction to sell them.  But I think  the point that 
hed have given  the instruction earlier had he known Legal  & General  had used a FVP 
adjustment to change  the value of the units is made with the benefit  of the hindsight 
knowledge of how the fund has performed since Mr N sold his units. 
I remain of the view that Alliance Trust could  have dealt with Mr Ns queries and complaint 
much better. I appreciate  Alliance Trust does not agree,  but I am satisfied it could have done 
more to address  and clarify things both in its initial emails to Mr N and its final response.  
Mr Ns  query (and later, complaint) was based on him not being told of the FVP adjustment  
in advance. In response to this Alliance  Trust said in an email dated 12 July 2016:
I have investigated  your query with our Proposition Team. They have advised that Legal and 
General applied Fair Value Pricing to your fund.  This was applied  from the valuation  point on 
the 6th July. We were  only notified regarding this on the 7th July so were  unable to notify  our 
clients.
It then referred to this email in its final response letter: 
As explained in an email  sent to you from our Client Services team on 12 July 2016 and as 
demonstrated above. Alliance Trust Savings received notification of the fair value pricing  
movement by Legal & General in retrospect and after the change  had actually  taken place. It 
is for this reason  we could not communicate this with our customers ahead  of the changes 
coming into effect, as we do rely on the issuer to inform us of any such actions in these 
instances.
In my view these are not adequate responses. They imply  that Legal and General was late 
to tell Alliance Trust of the FVP adjustment (and that Legal and General might therefore  be 
to blame), and fail to explain that advance  notice is never given of the pricing of a forward  
priced fund. In addition  to this, Mr N also asked Alliance Trust when it was told of the earlier  
FVP adjustment,  and received no reply to this question. 
So I remain  of the view that Alliance Trust should pay Mr N £300  for the trouble  and upset 
caused. But I do not think it needs to do anything else, for the reasons given  here and in my 
provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my decision is that Alliance  Trust should pay Mr N £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by the way it dealt with his queries and 
complaint. But that it should not do anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
John Pattinson
Ref: DRN25135556ombudsman
Ref: DRN2513555