K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  unfairly declined  her medical insurance 
claim. 
background
Miss W holds a Healthier Solutions private  medical insurance policy with Aviva. Prior to 
taking out the insurance, she visited her GP on 31 July 2018 to discuss concerns she had 
regarding her breasts, as she had been  lactating  for over 20 years but had not previously 
sought advice  as she didnt consider it to be abnormal. And given that Miss Ws family had a 
history of cancer, she said it caused  her to start thinking about the risks of breast cancer.  
Around three weeks after seeing  her GP, Miss W took out a medical insurance policy with 
Aviva on 17 August 2018. Three days after taking the policy,  and following a further  
appointment with her GP, Miss W wanted  to see a specialist, and so was provided  with a 
referral to a consultant breast surgeon  to consider the risks of breast cancer  and conduct  
further tests. 
Miss W submitted a claim on 28 August 2018 for the associated  medical  costs  of her 
referral. But Aviva declined the claim on the basis that it was a pre-existing or related 
condition, as the GP had examined Miss Ws breasts in July 2018, and had referred  to the 
lactating on the claim form (as galactorrhoea)  when listing the history of the condition being  
claimed for. 
Miss W complained that her claim had been declined  unfairly,  because  there  were  no tests  
or concerns about cancer when she saw her GP in July 2018.  She says this appointment 
was just to discuss  her concerns regarding the galactorrhoea, which she says has nothing  to 
do with breast cancer. Aviva offered to obtain  notes  from Miss Ws GP to consider the matter 
further, so they sent a consent form for Miss W to complete in September 2018. But Miss W 
did not return the consent form, so they were  unable to get any further details.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Ws complaint. She accepted that there may be no direct  
link between  the galactorrhoea and breast cancer, but concluded that it was likely  related to 
concerns that she had about breast cancer, and that these concerns existed before she took 
out the policy. So she didnt think it would be fair to ask Aviva to cover  the claim.
Miss W disagreed, so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
The policy terms and conditions set out:
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition or any related  condition if you 
had:
symptoms of
Ref: DRN24152492medication for
diagnostic tests  for
treatment for, or
advice about
that condition  in the five years before you joined the policy.
A pre-existing condition  is further  defined as any disease, illness  or injury for which you 
have received medication, diagnostic tests, advice or treatmentwhether the condition has 
been diagnosed or not before you joined the policy . And advice is also defined  by the 
policy as any consultation, advice or prescription from a GP or specialist.
Miss W says that the galactorrhoea is a separate matter  and unrelated to the referral  she 
had for breast cancer. 
I can see the referral to the specialist mentions that Miss W had concerns about  
abnormalities relating to the different sizes of her breasts. But the GP also mentions the 
galactorrhoea and refers to the fact that she has been able to express milk for over 20 years.  
The claim form completed by the GP similarly explains that Miss W was concerned that she 
might have breast cancer,  and says that she saw her doctor on 20 August 2018 about these 
concerns and the different  sizes  of her breasts.  But when asked to provide a full history of 
the symptoms/condition being claimed  for, the GP included the July 2018 appointment 
where Miss Ws breasts  were examined  due to the galactorrhoea. And finally,  the GP was 
also asked on the claim form how long before the first ever visit did the patient have 
symptoms to which he recorded 21 years in reference to duration of time that Miss W had 
been experiencing galactorrhoea.
Given that the GP has referred to the galactorrhoea  in Miss Ws referral  to the specialist  
and given that this condition was also referenced in the history of the symptoms  or condition 
being claimed for, Im not persuaded  that the two conditions are completely unrelated or not 
connected in any way as Miss W argues. 
The purpose of this sort of medical insurance policy is to ensure cover in the event of an 
unexpected injury or illness. Miss W had already seen  her doctor and had her breasts  
examined before taking  out insurance, and it appears that she then took out the policy  when 
she wanted to be referred  to a specialist. 
I appreciate that Miss W feels  the galactorrhoea is unrelated to her concerns  about breast  
cancer. But she didnt  provide  Aviva with her consent to see the notes from her GP about 
what was discussed  during her July 2018 appointment. So I dont think  it was unreasonable  
for the insurer to decline her claim on the basis that shed  previously  sought  advice from her 
GP about  concerns she had with her breasts  and breast cancer  particularly given that the 
galactorrhoea was referenced in both the referral and the claim form completed by the GP. 
Miss W claims that the GP had completed the claim form incorrectly  because  hed referred  
to the galactorrhoea.  But Ive seen nothing to persuade  me that this was the case. 
So, for the reasons outlined above (and in the absence of any further evidence such as the 
medical notes from Miss Ws GP) I do not think  Aviva have unfairly declined Miss Ws claim 
on the basis that shed already sought  advice from her doctor before taking the policy, about 
the condition for which she was eventually referred. 
Ref: DRN24152493my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2415249