K820x#14Complaint
Mr F has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC wont refund transactions, which he says he 
didnt make.
Background
Mr F said someone hacked into his computer  and made two online payments on 31 May and 
18 June 2018,  totalling £755.38,  to a business  providing financial services. The first 
transaction was made with old card, which was subsequently cancelled. The second 
transaction was made with a replacement  card, which was issued on 9 June 2018.
Mr F said he didnt  make  these payments or recognise the business. According to his 
inquiries, the business  is unregulated and he believes it trades in cryptocurrency. He said 
hes never traded in cryptocurrency, only binary options and that was in 2017.
Mr F had made an earlier complaint to Lloyds earlier on 21 May 2018 about  a possible fraud 
on his account.  He said hed received a call from the business,  which  provides his online 
security support. He wasnt  sure it was a genuine call so he contacted Lloyds. He thought he 
might have provided his card details to the caller. He said he believed the caller had taken 
over his computer, although  no fraudulent transactions had taken place on his account.
Since then,  he believed his computer remained vulnerable  to hackers.
Mr F said he lives alone.  He hasnt shared his online or banking details with anyone else.  He 
explained that he stores his online banking log on details away from his computer. He 
doesnt store  the details electronically  on his home  computer.
He couldnt explain  how the business would know the details for his two cards. And he said 
he was in a different county attending  a funeral  when the second  transaction  occurred.
Mr F also said he wouldnt have made these transactions because his account was 
overdrawn.
He asked Lloyds  to refund the disputed  the transactions.
Lloyds investigated  his complaint and decided not to refund the transactions.  It thought  Mr F 
had authorised the transactions  himself because:
the disputed  transactions  were made from the same IP address that he uses when 
he logs on to his online  banking  account
the IP address is in the same location  as his home address
he confirmed that he lives alone and no-one has access to his computer
each transaction  was made with a different debit card. Lloyds thought  it was unlikely  
a third party or hacker would know the details  for both cards.
As Mr F didnt agree with Lloyds decision, he asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt 
unable to conclude  that the payments had been made fraudulently  and was persuaded they 
were most likely made and authorised by Mr F. 
Ref: DRN20264282Mr F disagreed. Hes asked for a review by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the transactions and the 
evidence. Mr F and Lloyds have read the investigators view so I wont repeat everything  in 
my decision.  However, I can assure both parties  that I have read the file, including  the 
evidence, which they have provided. Having  done so, my review of the evidence has led me 
to the same  overall  conclusions as those reached by the investigator and for broadly  the 
same reasons.
Ive noted Mr Fs request  for a phone conversation. Its within  the ombudsmans discretion 
whether to speak  to the consumer, although its seldom necessary to do so. Ive seen Mr Fs 
comments on the investigators view. He hasnt anything new to add, so I dont think  there  is 
anything more he or I can say in a phone call.
Generally, Lloyds can hold Mr F liable  for the disputed transactions if the evidence  suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Fs card details were  used to make 
the disputed transactions. The electronic records  show the correct card details were entered,  
including the long card number, the expiry date and the Card Verification Value  (CVV) on the 
back of the card.
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own,  enough to enable  Lloyds 
to hold him liable.  So I also need  to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that Mr F consented  to the transactions being  made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude that Mr F 
authorised the transactions. Ill explain why I have reached this decision. 
Firstly, the electronic reports show that the disputed transactions were made from the same 
IP address as the one he used for online banking. The IP address is the same county as the 
one he lives in. Someone  else in the house might use the same IP address. However, Mr F 
told us he lives alone and no one else has access to his computer. 
Ive considered whether the disputed  transactions were made by a third party  with remote  
access to his computer,  as he suggests,  but I dont think this is what  happened.
According to the banks  notes, he raised  a fraud  complaint on 21 May. He believed  his 
computer had been taken over. There were no fraudulent  transactions  on his account but 
Lloyds cancelled his debit card anyway. It issued  a replacement card on 23 May. 
The replacement card was used to make the first disputed transaction on 31 May. He 
complained about this transaction  on 7 June. Again, Lloyds cancelled  his card and issued a 
second replacement  card on 9 June. 
Ref: DRN20264283The second  replacement card was used to make the disputed  transaction on 18 June.
Even if a third party had gained remote  access to his computer on or before 21 May, they 
would not have known the details for two replacement debit cards,  which were issued later. 
Mr F said he didnt  store  any banking or card details  on his computer. This means a third 
party would have  needed  access  to the actual cards to make  the disputed  transactions.  
However, based on what Mr F has told us, no one else had access  to his cards.
Similarly, as he said he didnt know the business,  its not likely that it would have his card 
details in its records.
This leaves  only Mr F with access to the computer and the two replacement cards.
Ive also noted  that Mr F hasnt provided  any evidence showing his computer was hacked  
not from the company that provides his online  security or other IT expert.
Taking everything into account,  I find that its more likely  than not that Mr F authorised the 
disputed transactions.  It follows  that Lloyds is entitled to hold him liable for them.
I am sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr F. I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear and I am very grateful for his patience while we looked into his case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2026428