K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc rejected his claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect of a washing machine.
background
In June 2014 Mr S bought a washing machine from a retailer  I will call C. He encountered a 
number of faults the first of which occurred some  seven  months  after purchase. These faults 
included excessive noise,  leaks  and it not working. The various  repairs included a virtual 
rebuild of the inner workings and various attempts to fix a number of leaks. After  he brought 
his complaint to this service the door failed to unlock and he was told the electrics had burnt 
out and would need to be replaced at a cost of around £150. Mr S decided to buy a new 
machine and his old one was taken in part exchange. 
Mr Ss section  75 claim was rejected by the bank as it believed he was unable  to prove that 
the machine had been faulty  at the point  of sale. It said he had been  able to use it 
untroubled for 15 months  and it was possible the problems were  due to wear and tear or 
misuse.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who recommended  it be upheld. She didnt think  that the washing machine was 
in a durable condition. She said she understood a washing machine  should last 
approximately 11 years and parts should be replaced around 8 years. However this machine 
only made it to 15 months before the first repair was undertaken.
After this there were  leaks and many parts were replaced or adjusted.  She thought a new 
machine should  last well beyond 15 months  without the need for repair. Given  the number of 
problems Mr S faced she believed it was fair to say that the machine wasnt  durable and that 
the defect already existed at the time of purchase. She added  that the multiple repairs failed 
to fix the faults  and she concluded that the machine wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time 
of purchase.
She recommended that Co-op should;
Refund the cost of the washing machine. Co-op  should deduct £100 from what Mr S 
got for the item. Co-op should also deduct  10% for his usage of the washing machine 
for 15 months.
Refund associated  costs, such as the purchase of the warranty  for a year and the call 
out costs for the engineers to repair the washing  machine  including  8% simple 
interest.
Mr S agreed, but Co-op didnt. It said that after six months of ownership  the onus was on 
Mr S to demonstrate that the machine had an inherent fault at the point of sale. It said there 
had been four repairs over a three and a half year period. The paperwork from the repairs 
didnt reference  the cause  of the faults  and as the machine had been sold no independent 
report could be undertaken. It didnt believe there was sufficient evidence to support the 
claim.
Ref: DRN28997422my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr Ss transaction  with C was financed by credit  supplied to him by Co-op, section 
75 of the CCA1974  is a factor that needs to be taken  into account when dealing  with his 
complaint. In simple  terms, section  75 gives Mr S an equal right to claim against Co-op or C 
for a breach  of contract or misrepresentation by C.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. 
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
One of the key elements  to be considered  in a matter like this is the durability of the goods. 
Clearly the machine wasnt  durable and it has required  many  repairs  culminating in one 
which was one recently which was estimated to cost £150. Mr S took the reasonable 
decision that enough was enough  and got rid of the machine and replaced it with one which I 
trust is more reliable.
I have some sympathy with the Co-ops  view in that it cannot be absolutely demonstrated 
that the machine had an inherent fault at the point of sale. However,  I think it I setting the bar 
too high. Mr Ss testimony which is backed up by invoices shows  that he first encountered  
problem after some seven  months.  The machine has since suffered multiple breakdowns  
and has significant  repairs.
I have seen nothing  to substantiate  the suggestion that this was caused  by user error. That 
might be a possible explanation if the same fault had reoccurred, but this machine had 
variety of faults. It seems  to me that that the most likely explanation is that this was a dud 
machine and Mr S has been exceedingly  tolerant in putting up with it for such a long period. 
Therefore, I can only conclude that on the balance of probabilities that the machine was 
inherently faulty and so he should be recompensed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct The Co-operative Bank Plc to:
Refund the cost of the washing machine. Co-op  should deduct £100 to take into 
account what Mr S got for it in part exchange. Co-op should also deduct 10% for his 
usage of the washing machine for 15 months.
Refund associated  costs: the purchase of the warranty  for a year and the call out 
costs for the engineers to repair  the washing machine including 8% simple  interest.
Ref: DRN28997423Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2899742