K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out alongside a loan in 2010. Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr B says he was unaware  PPI had been added  to the loan. Lloyds has been able to 
give me a copy of the signed credit agreement  from the time of the sale.  In this, there 
was a separate section for PPI, underneath where Mr B signed  for the loan. This asked 
Mr B to tick and sign the section if he wanted the PPI, which I can see he did. It also 
explained the PPI was an optional  product  before setting out the monthly  and total cost. 
Looking at this, I think  Lloyds made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that he chose  to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. 
Mr B wouldve  received six months  at full pay followed by 75% of his pay if he was sick. 
The policy couldve  covered  Mr B for up to 12 months if he was made redundant. And if 
he was sick or had an accident  itd cover him until he was ready to go back  to work  or 
until the loan was repaid. And that wouldve been  in addition to his sick pay and 
redundancy pay. So I think he couldve found  the policy useful, and I dont  think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
This means Lloyds  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ref: DRN29540142The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2954014