K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains, in summary, about  the way Gain Credit LLC,  trading as Lending  Stream, 
(LS) has administered his accounts.  The complaint has been brought  to this service on 
Mr Ks behalf by his mother, Mrs K. But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken 
by Mr K unless otherwise  stated.
background
Mr K took out two short term loans with LS in April 2012 (Loan 1) and May 2012 (Loan 2). 
Loan 1 was repayable by five monthly repayments  and Mr K made three  repayments.  Loan 2 
was repayable by six monthly repayments  and Mr K only paid the first repayment. So LS 
employed a third party debt collection agency,  (DC), to pursue repayment  of the 
outstanding balances. 
DC wrote  to Mr K on 10 April 2013 to say that LS had accepted  an offer of £100 in full and 
final settlement of the outstanding balances owed to it. But the payment of £100 needed to 
be made by 28 April 2013. DCs letter said that once  the payment was made, both accounts 
would be closed and LS would be told the settlement  had been  completed.  Mrs K, on Mr Ks 
behalf, sent DC a cheque  for £100 on 24 April 2013.  DC has since confirmed that the £100 
was received and sent to LS and that the accounts  were closed. Notwithstanding this, LS 
sold both accounts  to a third party  debt purchaser  (DP) in 2017.  DP issued legal  
proceedings to recover the outstanding  balances  and obtained a county court judgement  
(CCJ). But because  Mr K had moved  home,  he was not aware of the legal proceedings and 
CCJ until 2018 when  he was trying to obtain  a mortgage. 
So Mr K contacted LS to ask for the adverse  information  on his credit  file to be removed and 
for compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
LS then told Mr K that the loan accounts  hadnt  been settled. It said that Mr K had been told 
he could pay £459.70 to close both accounts  but this hadnt been paid, and the accounts 
were closed in error.
On 12 July 2018, LS contacted Mr K and said it would repurchase his loan accounts  and 
report the closure of the accounts  as of 26 July 2013 on his credit file. It offered to pay Mr K 
£100 compensation.
Mr K sent his complaint to this service on 15 July 2018. He wanted the CCJ to be removed 
from his credit file, proof that the accounts  had been  closed and compensation for the loss of 
his mortgage,  for money paid on his abortive purchase, for the money  paid on phone calls 
and time spent on the matter and stress.
After lengthy correspondence and phone  conversations  between the parties, on 
16 July 2018 LS offered  to pay Mr K £200  compensation  for the distress and inconvenience 
that may have been caused  whilst it was trying  to investigate the matter. Mr K accepted  LSs 
offer to pay £200  compensation  subject to the record about his accounts being removed 
from his credit file. The compensation amount of £200 was sent to Mr K on 18 July 2018. He 
said in an email dated 30 July 2018 that he had received  this. 
But Mrs K told LS on 17 July 2018 that the letter LS had sent on 16 July 2018 didnt reflect  
the discussion shed  had with LS on 16 July 2018. She said that LS had promised  to put in 
the letter that DC was responsible for not closing the accounts, that the accounts  were now 
Ref: DRN22064632closed and that acceptance  of the offer didnt stop Mr K going  on to sue the guilty  party. So 
LS responded on 17 July 2018 to say that despite the acceptance  of compensation, the 
issue could be taken  up with the court, ombudsman and regulator.  LS also said that DC had 
in error  confirmed the loans had been  paid off whilst they remained unpaid.
Mr K then received an email from DC on 31 July 2018 to say that it had agreed on behalf  of 
LS to accept £100 in full and final settlement  of both loan agreements. But this is in conflict 
with what LS is now saying was the agreed amount.
Mr K said that he only accepted the £200  compensation to move the matter forward so that 
the CCJ could  be removed. He is also seeking a further £2,000 compensation. So he wished 
to pursue the complaint.  
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  She acknowledged 
that LS had already repurchased and arranged for the accounts  to be marked as settled and 
removed the adverse  information from Mr Ks credit  file. She also noted that Mr K had 
received £200  compensation  for the inconvenience  caused. She believed that £200 was a 
fair amount of compensation.
LS responded to say that the accounts were never settled with DC and that DC had sent the 
closure confirmation in error. Nevertheless LS had offered to close  the loan accounts in its 
final response without  any further loan repayments required from 
Mr K.
Mr K responded to say that this service had received the letter  from DC accepting  the final 
payment of £100  to close the accounts,  confirmation of payment and confirmation that the 
accounts had been closed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
The facts  of this case are quite complex so Ive set them out above  in some detail for clarity.  
It seems  that DC has provided different information about Mr Ks outstanding balances  to 
each party. But its clear  to me that Mr K did receive  a letter from DC which  said that LS had 
accepted a £100 offer in full and final settlement of the balances  owed  to it, and that Mrs K 
on Mr Ks behalf had acted in reliance on it and paid that amount to DC. 
To clarify LSs position, I asked the adjudicator to ask LS to confirm that it accepted that its 
employee had told DC in April 2013  that £100  was accepted  in full and final settlement of the 
outstanding balances, that it had received  the £100  payment  from DC, and that the account 
was sold in error in 2017. No response  has been  received from LS to this request. 
But I can understand that Mr K would have been  distressed when he discovered that a 
county court judgement (CCJ)  had been  entered against him for non payment  of the 
accounts he believed  to be settled at a time when he said he was trying to get a mortgage.
Ref: DRN22064633I note that LS has taken back the accounts and it appears that it arranged for the adverse 
entries to be removed from Mr Ks credit  file shortly after being asked to do so. So part of the 
redress required by Mr K has been  provided and the loan balances  that were  in dispute have 
now been written off. The only outstanding issue is the amount of compensation to be paid 
by Mr K. 
I note that the adjudicator said that the compensation of £200  paid by LS was fair. I think  its 
clear that LS was offering £200  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to 
Mr K whilst it tried to investigate the matter.  And LSs letter of 17 July 2018 makes  it clear 
that it accepts that Mr K can pursue his complaint further. 
I can see that Mr K said that he had lost money  paid on the purchase  of a property and lost a 
mortgage because  of the county court judgement  (CCJ) on his credit file. He also said that 
he had suffered stress.  He is seeking  a further  £2,000 compensation. 
To clarify the extent of Mr Ks losses, I asked the adjudicator to obtain  more  information 
about these. I asked for information about  Mr Ks unsuccessful mortgage application(s)  
including any correspondence  from the lender/mortgage broker declining the applications. I 
asked for any information about Mr Ks expenses in removing  the county court judgement  
from the court record and his phone charges in contacting the lender. Although I noted that 
Mrs K had been handling the complaint on Mr Ks behalf, I asked for information about  the 
time spent  by Mr K in dealing with the complaint. Unfortunately Ive not received any of the 
details I requested. 
Id also asked for a copy of Mr Ks credit report to see whether Mr K might have had other  
debts which  might have  meant  that any declined mortgage wouldnt have been solely due to 
the CCJ. But we havent received the credit report. Mrs K asked why we needed the credit 
report. The adjudicator responded to say that I needed to see supporting evidence of the 
financial losses Mr K had asked for.
As weve not received any detailed information,  I cant safely  conclude that it was due solely 
to LSs errors that Mr K was unable  to obtain a mortgage. And so I cant take a failed 
mortgage application into account when  considering  what  level of compensation is 
appropriate. But I can see that LS acted promptly to remove the adverse entries  on Mr Ks 
credit file. So it seems that the time he would have been concerned  about  the CCJ on his 
credit file was minimised.
Mrs K said that Mr K spent extensive time dealing with the matter. But weve  not received 
any details about  this. I accept that Mrs K has spent considerable time on calls and trying to 
resolve the matter  and has asked for compensation for her time and effort.  But we dont 
normally award compensation for a representatives  time and effort  in bringing a complaint. I 
dont think that I can depart from this approach here.  
Its difficult for me to decide on an appropriate  level of compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience in a situation  like this. In the absence of any supporting evidence, I need to 
base my decision on the evidence I do have.  
LS said that the £200 compensation was offered for the distress and inconvenience  that may 
have been caused to Mr K whilst it had tried to investigate the matter.  I note that when Mr K 
accepted £200 compensation, he said it was subject  to the adverse records being removed 
from his credit file. I note that the compensation of £200 was offered on 16 July 2018 and 
that LS had already asked  for the adverse entries to be removed around a week before that. 
Ref: DRN22064634I dont doubt Mr Ks outrage and strength of feeling. Mrs K said that the matter has had a 
huge impact on her and her son. Mrs K also said that she wanted  LS prosecuted for illegal 
behaviour. But our job is to rectify and not to punish. 
I can see, in summary,  it took LS around  ten days to respond to Mr Ks complaint with its first 
offer to settle it and to put things in motion  to resolve  it. LS increased its compensation offer 
to £200 around  four days later. I note that it was investigating the complaint within this 
period. I think LS reacted  with sufficient speed  to correct Mr Ks credit  file, to purchase  and 
write off the outstanding debt and to pay compensation for the distress of it all. So I think  LS 
has acted appropriately  in its efforts in trying to resolve the matter and that it made  a 
reasonable offer in settlement of this complaint.  I note that it has already paid the £200 
compensation. Overall,  I dont think it needs to do any more.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr K. I can see he feels  strongly  
about his complaint. So he may want to pursue the matter further through  other routes. But 
my decision  brings to an end what we can do for him in trying to resolve  his dispute with LS 
informally.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2206463