K820x#14Complaint
Ms D has complained that NewDay Ltd wont refund transactions from her account,  which  
she says she didnt  make.
Background
Ms D has an Aqua  credit card with NewDay.
On 24 April 2017, Ms D raised a complaint  with NewDay about five unauthorised 
transactions from her account. They are set out in the table below.
 
The payments were made via the merchants  websites  with her credit  card details.
Ms D asked NewDay for a refund. It agreed to raise  a chargeback with the merchants. It sent 
her a form to complete,  as part of the chargeback process. On 21July 2017, she contacted 
NewDay and told it that shed returned the form. However, NewDay hadnt received it and so 
it sent her a replacement form.
NewDay didnt receive the replacement form and, by the time Ms D contacted it again, the 
time limit for raising a chargeback had expired. It refused to refund her and told her to 
pursue the merchants directly. 
Ms D wasnt  happy with this outcome so she brought her complaint to this service. She says 
the payments  are fraudulent  and she didnt make them.
An adjudicator looked into the case and decided that there was nothing  more NewDay  could 
do without the form.
Ms D didnt agree with the adjudicators view. She has asked for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant time.
relevant considerationsdate merchant amount outcome
10 April 2017 eDarling 134.85
10 April 2017 Match   39.99
13 April 2017 Match   74.97
14 April Maturedating.com     9.99
  14.99Refunded by 
merchant on 16 
April 2017
Ref: DRN25879862Ms D says she didnt make the disputed transactions  and they are fraudulent. They are, 
therefore, unauthorised transactions.
The disputed transactions took place in July 2017, so of particular relevance to my decision 
about what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2009 (the PSRs 2009) which apply to unauthorised or fraudulent  
payments.
The regulations explain that a payment out of someones account can only be authorised  if 
the payer has consented to it. The payment service provider must show  the payment was 
authenticated. This means it must show it was verified by its procedures, including  its 
personalised security  features.
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because  account holders will be 
liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks will be liable for 
unauthorised payments.  But accountholders can become  liable for unauthorised payments 
when they havent met certain obligations.  These  obligations are set out in Regulation 57 of 
PSRs 2009.
So my task is to decide whether I think Ms D authorised the transactions.
As Ive explained, under  the regulations,  New Day must  show that the payments  were 
authenticated. Ive seen  NewDays  audit  log for all transactions on Ms Ds credit card. The 
log confirms that the credit card and CVV numbers  were  provided to make these 
transactions.
Based on this evidence,  Im satisfied that the payments were authenticated.
The use of Ms Ds credit card details links her to the payments.  However, she says she 
didnt make them. I infer from this that she believes an unknown  third party made  the 
transactions.
Yet, Ms D still had her credit card with her when she called to complain  about  the 
transactions. She didnt report it lost or stolen. And, according to the audit log, she continued 
to use the same credit card until 15 September 2017  when she started  using another  card.  
Furthermore, she hasnt explained how anyone else could have got her card.
Also, I note that the payments to Maturedating.com were refunded  directly  by the merchant 
on 16 April, before shed raised a complaint with NewDay. This suggests that she knew 
about that transaction and had contacted  the merchant directly.  Of course,  it doesnt  
automatically follow that she knew about the other payments but its an odd coincidence that 
there is one genuine to payment to a dating website  amongst three  disputed  ones.
Based on the evidence,  I think its more likely  than not that Ms D authorised the disputed  
payments. Im afraid this means  that NewDay is not obliged to refund  them.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Ms D but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear. I apologise for the length  of time she has been waiting for this decision and I thank her 
for her patience.
Ref: DRN25879863My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2587986