K820x#14complaint
Ms W is unhappy  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) have declined to insure  her 
after she was convicted of a motoring offence.  She obtained her vehicle through a mobility 
scheme and is unhappy  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc are the sole providers  of 
insurance for the scheme.   
background
Ms W has a mobility  issue and is very dependent  on her vehicle. She leases a vehicle 
through the scheme. Ms Ws disability  benefit  is paid to the scheme and in return  she is 
provided with both a vehicle  and insurance. The insurance is arranged by the scheme. 
Ms W was convicted of a motoring offence. When Ms W made enquiries about renewing her 
lease and getting a new vehicle through the scheme, she was shocked and disappointed to 
find that, due to her driving conviction, RSA could not insure her any longer and she was 
removed as a driver  from the policy. RSA said that Ms Ws driving conviction didnt meet the 
Driver Acceptance Criteria  for the scheme.  And they were unable  to insure her as a driver for 
five years from the date of her conviction.  
This meant that Ms W could no longer drive a vehicle she was leasing from the scheme. 
This has also left Ms W in a vulnerable  position,  as she now has to use taxis,  which  she 
cannot really afford to do long term. Ms W tried to get the lease vehicle  insured  by another 
insurer. However, under the terms of the scheme, only RSA are allowed to provide  cover.  
Therefore, Ms W could not arrange  her own insurance for the lease vehicle via another 
insurer. 
Ms W complained to RSA. She was unhappy  that they had removed her from the policy  and 
that they werent able to insure her. RSA didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint. They  confirmed to 
Ms W that due to the rules of the scheme  her conviction meant that they were unable  to 
insure her as a driver for five years after the date of her conviction. 
Ms W brought a complaint  to our service. The complaint was looked  into by one of our 
investigators. The investigator didnt think that RSA had done anything wrong. The 
investigator said that all insurance companies have underwriting criteria  which  will set out 
how much  risk theyre willing to accept  and that Ms Ws driving conviction meant that she 
didnt meet RSAs  eligibility criteria. 
Ms W didnt  accept the investigators decision and asked for an ombudsman to decide  her 
case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence and considered the accounts of both sides,  Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN26640762Ms W entered into a lease  agreement under the above-mentioned scheme.  Under the terms 
and conditions of the scheme, the insurance has to be with RSA. Its also the scheme 
administrators who determine the risks, restrictions, terms and conditions of the insurance  
provided to customers such as Ms W. Also, under the scheme  agreement, the scheme is the 
policy holder. This means its the administrators  of the scheme who decide who theyre 
willing to have added to the policy as a driver and what the eligibility criteria for this are. So, 
its the scheme administrators, not RSA,  whove decided that they are not willing to add Ms 
W as an insured driver. 
Therefore, in removing  Ms W from the policy, RSA simply  carried out the instructions of the 
scheme administrator. So, I dont  think that RSA have done anything wrong here. RSA have 
no option other than to follow  the instructions of the scheme administrator, as they are the 
ones who are legally responsible for deciding who should be insured under the policy they 
have arranged. 
Ms W is also unhappy that she cant use an alternative insurance provider to insure her, as 
this would enable  her to drive  the vehicle that she has leased under the scheme. But its for 
the scheme administrators to decide which insurance provider they use to provide  the 
insurance policy. 
Unfortunately for Ms W, the administrators of the scheme are not willing  to allow  her to be 
added to the policy with RSA due to her driving conviction. And theres nothing RSA can do 
about this. 
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont think RSA have done anything  wrong  and I 
dont intend to ask them to do anything  further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2664076