K821x#15complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the increases  in premiums on her home insurance with 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc (StAIP).
background
I issued my provisional decision on 28 October  2019. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explained why I 
provisionally thought Mrs Bs complaint  should be upheld. Broadly summarised, I considered  
StAIPs offer to refund what Mrs B paid above the 2008 premium from 2009  until 2014 was 
fair. But I thought  something had also gone wrong in 2014  that meant Mrs B had lost out 
further. And I considered StAIP needed  to do more to put things right for the period after 
2014 to ensure Mrs B hadnt lost out.
Mrs B didnt respond to my provisional  decision.  StAIP responded, agreeing with my 
provisional findings and recommendation on what should be done to put things  right. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As StAIP agrees  with my provisional findings  and as neither party  has given me anything 
else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So, I now confirm 
those findings.
putting things right
StAIP should refund  what  Mrs B paid above  the 2008 premium  from 2009 until 2014.  
For the period  after 2014, StAIP need  to look at what Mrs B would have paid if she 
had switched to a cheaper  policy  in 2014 and pay the difference.  *
Pay additional compensation  (set at 8% simple interest per year) for Mrs B being out 
of pocket of that money. 
Pay additional compensation  of £200 for the trouble caused to Mrs B. 
*I understand Mrs B cancelled  the policy  in February 2017 having  only paid part of 2016s  premium.  If 
what Mrs B had part paid works out to be less than the cost of the alternative policy, then StAIP  
doesnt need  to include  2016/2017s premium this in its further offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and within my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Bs 
complaint.
St Andrews  Insurance Plc should put things right as directed above.
Ref: DRN28847502Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN28847503Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs B is unhappy  with the increases in premiums on her home  insurance with St Andrews Insurance 
Plc (StAIP).
background
Mrs Bs insurance policy  with StAIP  started in October 2001. It initially  cost £580.30 for the year.  In 
October 2013, the policy cost £1,300.90.
In 2014, after talking with a friend about the cost of her insurance policy, Mrs B complained to StAIP. 
Because the cost had gone  up, Mrs B thought StAIP  had taken  advantage  by unfairly increasing the 
cost of the policy every  year. 
In making her complaint  to StAIP, Mrs B had obtained  a quote of an alternative policy being  offered  by 
StAIP. The alternative  policy quote she obtained cost considerably less per month than what StAIP  
were currently charging her per month (£108.40) in 2013/2014.  
So Mrs B says she was charged  too much  and should be reimbursed  for the extra she had paid over 
the years.
When Mrs B spoke to StAIP about her complaint, she advised StAIP that the online quote she had 
obtained was valid for a month. Mrs B explained to StAIP she would wait to see what happened with 
her complaint and what the outcome was. But Mrs B said, if she didnt get a satisfactory  outcome, she 
might have to keep the policy going until such  time as its resolved by the ombudsman.
Mrs Bs complaint  with StAIP  wasnt resolved  and unhappy with StAIPs response,  Mrs B referred the 
matter to our service. 
Mrs B continued paying for the policy she held with StAIP. It wasnt until some time later that, as Mrs 
B could no longer afford the premiums, she cancelled the policy and took out a cheaper alternative 
policy.
While the complaint was with our service,  StAIP  offered to refund some  of the cost of the insurance. 
StAIP offered  to the refund  to Mrs B the amount  paid above the 2008 premium from 2009 up until 
2014 (totalling £1,257.13). Its offer also included  an amount of compensation set at 8% per year 
simple interest  to compensate Mrs B for being out of pocket of that money. 
StAIP also offered an additional £200 as compensation for the trouble  Mrs B had been caused.
But StAIP say that following a flood model  risk review in around 2015,  the property was rated as a 
high flood risk and the premiums charged in 2015 and 2016 were correct. So StAIP say it doesnt 
consider these years  should be included  within its offer.  I note only a part of the premium was paid by 
Mrs B for 2016/17 as ultimately  she cancelled  the policy as she could no longer afford the premiums.
Our adjudicator looked  into the complaint  and thought  StAIPs  offer was a fair way to resolve things.
As Mrs B disagreed,  and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been  passed to me for a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN28847504my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats provisionally  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance should have cost. I would  be, in effect,  
determining or telling  a business how it should operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at 
whether StAIP has treated  Mrs B fairly throughout the period she held her insurance policy and, 
importantly, what happened when  Mrs B made her complaint. 
If I find that StAIP hasnt treated Mrs B fairly, I will look to see what  compensation would be fair and in 
this case,  whether I think what StAIP has offered is fair.
When Mrs B took out her policy in 2001,  it cost £580.30 for the year. By 2013/14 the insurance  cost 
£1,300.90. 
I understand there was an introductory discount in 2001. This isnt uncommon and policies may well 
initially be priced lower to attract new customers. And I dont  think its unfair  for an insurer to seek to 
recoup that cost over the subsequent years.
While Mrs B did engage  with StAIP about the policy  itself over the years, there wasnt any 
engagement at renewal about the cost of the policy  and Mrs Bs premium  continued to increase  each 
year. 
If I thought  StAIP should have realised Mrs B wasnt the type of person  who shopped around for 
cheaper insurance regularly, and it increased  the price  just because she didnt engage at renewal, 
that wouldnt be fair. 
But StAIP has offered to refund some of the costs of the insurance premiums  Mrs B paid. Its offered 
to keep the premiums from 2009 until 2014 at the cost Mrs B paid in 2008,  which was £990.29.  So its 
offered to pay her the difference she paid above that, which for the period after 2008 works out to be 
£1,257.13. It has also offered Mrs B additional compensation for her being  out of pocket (which will be 
set at 8% simple interest per year) and £200 for the trouble caused.  If I thought StAIP  had taken  
advantage of Mrs Bs lack of engagement I would think this was a fair way to put things right for the 
premiums paid up to 2014.
But StAIP hasnt included the years after 2014  within  its offer. It says the risk associated with Mrs Bs 
property in 2015 and 2016 meant the premiums it charged were correct.   
As explained  earlier I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance should  have cost. And 
StAIP has provided  evidence  to show  its risk rating of Mrs Bs property for 2015 and 2016 was high. 
But that doesnt automatically mean StAIPs  offer for the extra Mrs B paid from 2009 until 2014 is fair. 
Within my role as an ombudsman I look into the individual circumstances of each case  and determine, 
if something went wrong, what I consider to be fair and reasonable way of putting  things right. 
I think  the crux of the complaint actually  lies with what happened in 2014 when  Mrs B called  to 
complain.
Mrs B contacted StAIP in 2014 to complain about the price she was paying. StAIP has provided a 
copy of the call recording.  
It is clear that Mrs B thought she was being overcharged on her premiums. Mrs B, in preparation for 
her call to complain to StAIP about the cost of her insurance, had obtained  an online quote from 
StAIP which was considerably cheaper than what she was currently paying  StAIP per month.  
Ref: DRN28847505During the discussion  it became  apparent that StAIP  no longer sold the policy  that Mrs B had. Mrs B 
was unhappy that she wasnt made aware that StAIP no longer sold her policy  and StAIP  had 
created a different  cheaper  policy that she felt was actually more suitable  for her. Mrs B says she 
didnt really need  the unlimited cover which her existing policy had and the newer policy had a 
£400,000 buildings insurance limit and £50,000  contents limit  which  Mrs B says was far more  
suitable for her property. 
I do understand Mrs B point here. But I dont  think  there  was a duty on StAIP  to automatically move 
her to a different, albeit cheaper, policy. And as she wasnt  engaging with StAIP up to that point about  
the price of her policy,  Im not satisfied that she would have  changed policies even if shed been told 
there were other policies available in any renewal  letter.  
But, on listening to the call I think StAIP  should have done more for Mrs B when she made  contact 
about the price of her policy. I think if it had been clearer, she would  have switched  to the cheaper 
policy. And I think Mrs B has lost out further because of StAIPs failure to give her the information she 
needed. Ill explain why.
Mrs B towards the end of the call mentions that she has the online quote that she had obtained and 
the quote  is valid for a month.  Mrs B explains to the call handler logging  her complaint that she will 
wait to see what happens  with her complaint and what the outcome is. But Mrs B says that if she 
doesnt get a satisfactory outcome (presumably reducing the cost to what  she can obtain online) she 
might have to keep this current  policy going until such time as its resolved  by the ombudsman.  Mrs B 
made this point several times.
I think  more should have been  done  here. StAIP  should have made it explicitly clear to Mrs B in the 
call and within  its answer to her complaint that she doesnt need to keep the current policy in order to 
refer the complaint to our service. StAIP were aware  that that was what Mrs B intended to do. StAIP 
should have confirmed to Mrs B that the policy  can be switched or cancelled and it wouldnt  make a 
difference to the complaint with it  or if not resolved - with our service, if referred. 
Im not satisfied Ive seen  enough from StAIP  to show that they did that. And it was to Mrs B 
detriment. Had StAIP been clear on this aspect,  Mrs B would  have cancelled  the policy at this point 
and switched  to the cheaper alternative she had found. Mrs B was under the impression she had to 
keep her policy active in order to complain about it  and from what I can see StAIP  didnt do enough 
to clarify  to Mrs B that this wasnt  the case. StAIP had the opportunity to do so and didnt. So I think 
something went wrong in 2014 that meant  Mrs B has lost out further than what  StAIP are currently 
offering to put things right.
putting things  right
StAIP should  refund what Mrs B paid above the 2008 premium from 2009 until 2014. 
For the period  after 2014, StAIP need to look at what Mrs B would  have paid if she had 
switched to a cheaper policy in 2014 and pay the difference. *
Pay additional compensation (set at 8% simple interest  per year) for Mrs B being out of 
pocket of that money. 
Pay additional compensation of £200 for the trouble caused to Mrs B 
*I understand  Mrs B cancelled  the policy in February 2017 having only paid part of 2016s premium. If what Mrs B 
had part paid works out to be less than the cost of the alternative policy, then StAIP doesnt need to include  
2016/2017s premium this in its further offer.
Ref: DRN28847506my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, I am currently minded to uphold this complaint.
I invite both parties to respond by the deadline set out at the start of the provisional decision.
I would like to add that in response to this provisional decision, if StAIP agrees with my findings, it 
should work out and provide  the updated offer so I can consider whether  it is fair and in line with what 
I have directed above.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2884750