K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a used car he got with finance  provided by FirstRand  Bank Limited  
(trading as MotoNovo  Finance) is of unsatisfactory quality. 
background
Mr S got this car under  a hire purchase agreement (HPA)  in April 2016. It broke down near 
the end of July 2018. A main dealer told Mr S the car needed a new engine  and repairs  
would cost about £6,000.  Mr S took the car to his local garage (that Ill call P) where they 
replaced the engine with a reconditioned  one for less than £2,000.  Mr S thinks the car had a 
known defect and this caused  the breakdown. He contacted Motonovo in August  2018 and 
asked it to pay for repairs. 
MotoNovo says this was a used car at the point of supply and Mr S was able to drive  it about 
22,000 miles before  the damage  occurred, over two years  later.  It thinks  this suggests the 
car was of satisfactory quality when Mr S got it and Mr S would need to provide independent 
evidence to show the car was faulty  at the outset.  
One of our investigators  looked at the evidence. He says 
Mr S acted  promptly when the car broke down, but the engine  was damaged  and had 
to be replaced due to the nature of the fault;
it looks as if the head  gasket  failed  - based  on evidence  from the recovery service 
and P, who both checked the car after the breakdown;
this particular part would not usually fail in a car of this age and mileage; and 
it is relevant that the manufacturer has accepted there was an inherent defect in this 
sort of engine even  though it wouldnt contribute to the cost of repairs  to this car.
On balance, our investigator  considers it is more likely than not the car had an inherent 
manufacturing issue at the point of supply. He doesnt think it is fair that Mr S had to pay for 
repairs in these circumstances.  He recommends Motonovo  should reimburse repair  costs 
and refund half of one monthly instalment - to reflect the fact Mr S didnt have use of the car 
for about two weeks while it was being  repaired. 
MotoNovo didnt agree. It says (in summary) 
Mr S had the car for more than six months  when it broke  down and covered around 
22,000 miles, so the onus was on him to provide evidence - in the form of an 
independent engineers report  that shows faults were present or developing at the 
point of supply;
Mr S didnt  provide  any evidence  to aid MotoNovos investigation;  and 
he had the engine replaced without  consulting MotoNovo meaning it lost the 
opportunity to investigate  further and/or obtain  evidence about the condition of the 
car. 
MotoNovo asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. 
Ref: DRN26741552my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached much  the same  conclusions 
as our investigator for broadly the same reasons.  
Where evidence is incomplete or inconsistent - as some of it is here - I reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. In other words, I consider what  is most likely to have happened,  
in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
This service provides informal dispute  resolution,  but I must  take account  of relevant law 
(amongst other things). Its not my role to apply the law - only a court can do that. Instead,  I 
make my determination based on what I think is fair and reasonable - in all of the 
circumstances. 
Im satisfied relevant  law here includes the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 (CRA). MotoNovo 
supplied this car under a HPA and it was obliged to ensure that the car was of satisfactory 
quality when Mr S got it under the CRA.  The quality of goods includes things like fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects and safety  and durability. And 
goods are of satisfactory quality if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
expect taking all of the relevant circumstances into account - such  as the price  paid and the 
age and mileage,  in the case of a vehicle.
According to the HPA,  this car was about four years old, had about 44,000 miles on the 
clock and cost £9,000  when it was supplied. I think a reasonable person would accept it 
wasnt going to meet the same standards  as a brand-new car as some parts would be worn  
and need to be replaced sooner or later - which is reflected in the lower  price paid for a used 
car. 
Theres no dispute that this car broke  down  after Mr S had it for over two years  and covered  
over 20,000 miles. The CRA says (broadly  speaking) when a fault occurs  within  six months 
of supply theres a presumption  it was there  at the outset. And MotoNovo  says Mr S would 
need to supply independent expert  evidence to show the car was faulty when he got it, in 
this situation.  
I accept it probably would have been useful to have an independent  experts opinion  about 
what went wrong with this car. But, Im not persuaded  that Mr S was required to obtain 
expert evidence in order to prove that the car had an inherent defect. Looking  at the 
evidence available, I think theres enough here for me to reach a fair and reasonable 
decision about what is likely to have  happened.  
I am satisfied that the manufacturer of Mr Ss car has acknowledged that some of its engines 
- like the one in this car - were manufactured  with an inherent  defect.  I accept that doesnt 
mean the engine  in Mr Ss car must  have this particular  fault.  But Ive also seen a report from 
the national breakdown service that tried to repair the car at the roadside - and recovered it 
when that wasnt  possible  and a job card completed by the VAT registered garage  that 
carried out repairs  P. 
The breakdown service report says the car was a "non-starter after losing a lot of coolant, 
member refilled the cooling system and the tank is still drained  and then the vehicle wouldnt 
start, added a can of fuel as low, cleared fault codes. Removed the spark plugs and cleaned 
(very wet).  The engine  started and ran but not on all cylinders. The engine  then cut out again 
Ref: DRN26741553and the spark plugs  were  wet. Suspect internal coolant leak. i.e. head gasket. White smoke  
was also seen when  it ran".
And the job card P supplied says "possible head  gasket, when pressure tested found 
excessive coolant  in number 3 cylinder".
I think this evidence seems consistent with the type of head gasket failure thats associated 
with the presence  of the known manufacturing defect. I dont think this part would usually be 
expected to fail in an engine of this age and mileage as the result of normal wear  and tear. 
And Ive seen nothing  to make me think  that the engine  damage here is likely to have been 
caused by any fault on the part of Mr S  who has supplied  evidence that he had the car 
serviced routinely.  
Ive considered what MotoNovo says about the time Mr S had the car and how far he was 
able to drive it before  the damage  occurred. But, Im not persuaded this means the car didnt  
have a fault when it was supplied. Im satisfied goods can sometimes  function satisfactorily 
for a relatively long period  but still prove to be less durable than a reasonable person would 
expect due to a defect thats been  present from the outset.  
I appreciate MotoNovo feels it was deprived of the chance to investigate  because Mr S had 
the car repaired before he got in touch. But it looks as if Mr S contacted  MotoNovo fairly  
promptly - just a day or so after the car was repaired. And I think  its likely  MotoNovo could 
still have contacted P - or the main dealer who first saw the car  at that stage, if it wanted to 
preserve parts or obtain more information  about what had gone wrong. 
I accept the manufacturer didnt reimburse  the cost of repairs  when Mr S asked it to. But, Im 
not persuaded this was because the manufacturer looked into things and concluded  that the 
engine didnt  have  an inherent fault.  Ive seen emails between  the manufacturer  and Mr S, 
from the relevant  time. Im satisfied  the manufacturer said it would be able to assist Mr S 
with the costs of any replacement  parts - but this was dependent  on Mr S sourcing  those  
parts from the manufacturer  and having them fitted by a main dealer. 
Mr S wasnt  able to do that  hed already obtained a reconditioned engine  elsewhere and 
instructed P to carry out repairs. And I think the manufacturer  rejected his claim on this basis  
 not because the car didnt have  a manufacturing  issue. I am not persuaded, in any event, 
that Mr S has to show that the manufacturer accepted  liability for me to be satisfied that the 
car was of unsatisfactory  quality  when  it was supplied.
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I think it is more likely than not the car was supplied  with 
an inherent defect - meaning  it wasnt as durable as a reasonable person  would  expect. I 
find it was of unsatisfactory  quality at the point of supply and Im satisfied  MotoNovo is liable 
for this under  the CRA. 
Like our investigator.  I think its fair for MotoNovo to refund the reasonable cost of repairs. 
Mr S has supplied  invoices that show he purchased a reconditioned  engine  for £995 and had 
repair work carried out by P that cost £793.18  (including VAT)  a total of £1,788.18.  Mr S 
says the main dealer told him it would probably  cost about three times as much  to have the 
car repaired. And I cant fairly say it was unreasonable that he decided  to have the car fixed  
by P for the lower  amount. I dont  think  the repair costs sound unreasonable.  And I find it fair 
that MotoNovo  should provide a refund of £1,788.18, plus interest.  
Ref: DRN26741554It looks as if the car seems was off the road for about two weeks for repairs.  I think thats 
likely to have caused Mr S some loss of use and inconvenience. I think  it is fair for MotoNovo 
to refund half of one monthly payment to reflect that.  
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint and I require FirstRand Bank Limited  (trading as 
MotoNovo Finance) to
1.refund  £1,788.18, the cost of repairs;
2.refund  half of one monthly payment under the HPA; and
3.pay interest on the refunds at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement. 
If MotoNovo considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr S how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2674155