K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc told her that when her Loyalty  Bond matured 
on the 23rd July 2018 it would pay a 1.35% return as opposed to the reduced rate of 1.25% 
it did pay.
background
An investigator at this service did not feel her complaint should be upheld.
She didnt  agree that BoI had offered Miss B 1.35%, saying the evidence indicated it had 
offered 1.25% and she had agreed  to the reinvestment on this basis.
Miss B did not agree, saying BoIs  call handler had told her she would get 1.35%. She also 
enclosed information  which  shed obtained from the Post Office  which  she believed 
supported her case. This leaflet showed that BoI was offering 1.30% interest  on a new 12 
month bond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the investigator 
and for the same  reasons.
BoI sent Miss B a letter on 5 July 2018,  two weeks before her bond matured, offering her a 
rate of 1.25% for a further 12 month commitment. Miss B signed this letter  in agreement with 
the terms and conditions. By definition, this included the 1.25% rate.
BoI subsequently improved on this offer to customers whose renewal date was later than 
Miss Bs and whose  Loyalty Bonds  matured after her. Unfortunately, Miss Bs money was 
invested on the date the higher  rate of 1.35% was introduced but BoI only made this rate 
available to customers who bonds matured after this date  and had therefore received the 
appropriate letter offering this rate.
I recognise this seems both complicated and unfair but BoI was fully entitled to operate its 
Loyalty Bond on this basis,  and Miss B had a choice as to whether to accept  its 1.25%  offer.
I have listened  to the lengthy phone call in question and I fully understand Miss Bs concerns 
given she appeared, even  at the end of the call, to believe BoI might send her a new letter 
offering the higher rate of 1.35%. But I do think the call handler  repeatedly  made clear that 
she was only entitled to 1.25%, and did not hold out any realistic  hope that she would either 
receive a new letter  or a better offer.
In the Post Office leaflet BoI offered 1.3% on a new 12 month bond but this was a different 
product to the Loyalty Bond Miss B renewed.  While I fully sympathise with Miss Bs dismay  
that BoI was offering a better  return to new customers  than loyal  ones, it was entitled  to do 
this.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
Ref: DRN29257882Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2925788