K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc has refused to repair  all the damage  to his 
property after he made a claim under his home insurance policy for an escape of water. Hes 
also unhappy with the way his claims been  handled.
background
In August  2018  Mr S made a claim to AXA for damage caused by an escape of water from 
the attic. The leak caused a lot of damage to a bedroom and bathroom.
AXA appointed a contractor to dry the property and carry out repairs. In October  2018  the 
contractor removed some plaster from the wall in a bedroom in order to help the drying  
process. This exposed  a crack in the wall that Mr S hadnt previously been aware of. AXAs 
surveyor said the crack had been caused  by the fact that it was a non-load bearing wall that 
was actually taking  the weight of the boarding in the attic above and hot water cylinders. 
AXA said it wouldnt carry out any more  work  until Mr S had the crack repaired because  the 
crack hadnt been caused by the water leak. It also offered  him the option  of a cash 
settlement based  on what it would have paid its contractor to finish the insured works. Mr S 
took the cash settlement and had the repair works  carried out.
Mr S complained to AXA. It didnt  change its decision  in respect of the claim but paid him a 
total of £250 compensation for delays on its part. 
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He thought  the 
crack in the wall had probably been caused by the additional load on the wall from the 
cylinders as described  by AXAs  loss adjuster. He also thought  the compensation paid by 
AXA in respect of delays was reasonable.
As Mr S didnt agree,  the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a claim  is made under an insurance  policy its the responsibility of the insured to prove 
that they have  experienced  an insured  peril  an incident covered under the policy.  Its then 
the responsibility of the insurer to accept the claim or prove  that an exclusion applies. In this 
case, the relevant insured  peril is escape  of water. So I first need  to consider whether Mr S 
has done enough to prove that the cracking in the bedroom wall was caused by the escape 
of water.
AXAs loss adjuster said:
The clinker block wall is taking the load of the joists and boarding supporting  the hot water 
cylinders which has put significant additional  load on to the original wall. This was clearly 
fitted incorrectly prior to Mr [S] purchasing the property and would therefore be excluded  
under the faulty workmanship section of the policy. 
Ref: DRN23292382This is in line with what Mr S said hed been  initially told by a surveyor who was doing work 
for a neighbour. Mr S said later hed had been told by a builder that the damage to the wall 
had been more likely caused by a steel girder being inserted underneath it when the house 
had been extended before Mr S bought it. Since the complaint has been  brought to this 
service Mr Ss builder has advised in writing that he thought  the water damage  had probably 
caused the crack in the bedroom wall. Mr S has also said according to his structural  
engineer the water  tanks in the attic wouldnt have caused the crack in the wall. 
Only the builder appointed by Mr S appears  to have actually said that the water damage 
probably caused the crack although that might also be inferred from the structural engineers 
conclusion. 
Overall I find the opinion of AXAs loss adjuster/surveyor more persuasive. The person giving 
it was more likely to be professionally  qualified than Mr Ss builder. The writer explained that 
the wall in question  was a block wall about  75mm  thick which following alterations at the 
property was now supporting a significant additional load and so needed to be reinforced. 
That seems  to me a convincing explanation.  Its also consistent with the professional opinion 
of the surveyor who looked at it initially for Mr S. So at the time it made its decision not to 
accept liability for the crack in the wall, I think it was reasonable  for AXA to say it was more  
likely than not that no insured peril had occurred.
Mr S has considered obtaining  a report from a structural  engineer. AXA said that if Mr S is 
able to provide  evidence  that the crack  was in fact caused by the water damage, then it 
would review it. I think thats a reasonable offer.
AXA has accepted  that its customer service fell below  the standard it likes to provide. Its 
evident that there were some unnecessary delays in dealing  with the claim. But AXA has 
accepted that and paid Mr S compensation of £250  for any trouble and upset this caused  
him. I think thats fair and its in line with what Id probably have awarded if AXA hadnt 
already paid this.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2329238