K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC will no longer accept foreign cheques  into her 
banking current account. 
background
Over a number of years, Mrs C has sent foreign  cheques from Hong Kong to her current  
account with Barclays in the UK. Mrs C has had previously issues with the cheques not 
crediting her account,  but this was resolved in an earlier complaint. Mrs C says the same  
issue has now happened again and she complains that Barclays have said it will no longer 
offer this service.  
Mrs C logged a complaint with Barclays and it investigated the issue.  Barclays  said that the 
process of paying  in foreign cheques  was not a service that was still available.  Barclays told 
Mrs C that she would need to get the money  paid by a bank transfer in future, and it would 
no longer accept cheques from Hong Kong. Barclays did go on to credit  the latest cheque it 
received - but as an exception. Barclays went on to say that they had previously made  Mrs C 
aware that this wouldnt be a service they would  provide moving forward. Barclays paid 
Mrs C £50 compensation for a failure in their customer service during the process or 
notifying her. 
As Mrs C was unhappy with Barclays response, she brought  a complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She found that 
Barclays had made  Mrs C aware  that the previous arrangement to pay foreign  cheques into 
her account  was only on a temporary basis. She also found that the Barclays  website was 
clear in the information it gave  that foreign  cheques needed to be physically taken into a 
branch. Finally she found that the amount Barclays had paid in compensation for the earlier 
issue was fair. 
Mrs C responded to the investigators view. She said she is being racially  discriminated 
against due to her location. 
As the investigator  wasnt minded to change her view, the complaints been passed  to me to 
issue a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Barclays have allowed Mrs C to pay foreign cheques into her UK 
banking account  in the past. There is also no dispute that this has in itself brought issues.  
These issues have been  investigated and Mrs C compensated, so I wont be addressing 
these again. 
What is in dispute here, is that Barclays are no longer willing  to offer this service - and Ill go 
on to explain why Im satisfied this is fair. 
Foreign cheques cant be put through a UK banks clearing system, so they have to be dealt 
with in a different way. This includes  something called a cheque  negotiation. This type of 
Ref: DRN29890822service carries a risk to both the consumer and the business  in this case  Barclays. I 
understand Mrs Cs frustration in the fact she has been paying  these  cheques  in previously, 
but I also understand Barclays  reluctance to continue to allow her to do this. 
When negotiating  a cheque, the banks effectively  lending  the money in the expectation it'll 
receive payment  when  the cheques paid.  The clearing can often take some  time and the 
payment can be returned as unpaid in this time. Banks will usually  ask a customer to sign a 
form in branch agreeing to the terms for negotiating or collecting a foreign cheque. It means  
the bank is able to debit  the customer's account  should it need to  for costs, or if a cheque 
is returned unpaid   and this is the reason Barclays have  given  for not offering the service. I 
find this fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Due to the length of time to clear  a foreign cheque, consumers have often spent the money, 
so this can cause  further issue  if the money is removed. Given  the circumstances and the 
risk to both the business and consumer, Im satisfied Barclays havent done  anything wrong 
by advising Mrs C that they wont be offering this service in the future. 
I understand that Barclays have sent Mrs C negotiation forms in the past to complete. 
Barclays have confirmed  that this was not the correct  process  to follow, and it is not willing  to 
allow this moving forwards. Given what Ive said above, Im satisfied with the reasons it has 
given for stopping this. 
I can see at the time of making Mrs C aware  that they would be stopping the service, Mrs C 
had a cheque  waiting to be paid into her account.  Barclays agreed to process  this cheque as 
an exception.  I find this was a fair thing to do given the conflicting  information Mrs C had 
previously received.  
Following the investigators view,  Mrs C has said that Barclays  are racially  discriminating 
against her due to her location. Ive looked through all of the evidence and information 
provided here by both parties and Ive found  no evidence of this claim. Barclays are very 
clear that foreign cheques can be paid in, if the person visits a branch and signs  the 
negotiation form.  When this is not possible, Barclays offer alternatives such as bank 
transfers. This is not an unusual process  and often banks will refuse  to accept foreign 
cheques at all.  
Its clear from everything Ive seen here, that Barclays have made  Mrs C aware that the 
service of sending in foreign cheques is no longer available. And it follows that Ive not found 
Barclays have been unfair or unreasonable in its decision  to do so.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2989082