K820x#14complaint
Miss C complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax:
-wouldnt allow her to review her mortgage and switch to a better deal, because she 
was on benefits;  and
-wouldnt allow her to transfer (port) her mortgage to another property.
Miss C wants  her interest  rate adjusted to what it would have been if shed had a review.  
She also wants compensation  for any financial loss as a result of not being allowed to port 
her mortgage.
  
background
Miss C took out a 25 year interest only mortgage with Halifax in 2007.  Unfortunately she 
became ill, and had to leave work  in 2009. She was able to claim benefits, which initially 
covered her mortgage  payments in full.
Miss C said that in 2009 and 2015 she asked Halifax for a rate review. She said that she 
was told that she couldnt change to a cheaper deal,  because she wouldnt be able to afford 
her current  mortgage if shed been  applying  at that point.
In 2017, Miss Cs benefits reduced, and an advice service suggested she should contact her 
mortgage provider  for a review. Miss C also needed a carer to stay overnight.  She explained 
that as her property had one bedroom,  this meant  that her mother, as her carer, had to sleep  
in the lounge, which wasnt ideal. Miss Cs mother owned a two bedroom property where her 
tenants had just moved out. Miss Cs mother suggested that Miss C should buy the two 
bedroom property,  and transfer her mortgage  to that. Miss Cs mother would then buy and 
rent out Miss Cs current  one bedroom property.
So Miss C went to a Halifax branch and asked if she could port her mortgage  to her mothers  
property. She said Halifax  told her that her application would be forwarded to someone  
senior and shed be notified.  A week later, she had a phone  call to say she couldnt afford 
the mortgage.  
In June 2018, Miss Cs benefits stopped. After some discussions, in September  2018, she 
made an appointment with Halifax for a mortgage review and was offered two options. One 
was for a 5 year fixed  term rate, which would have been more  expensive than her current  
rate. The other was for a 2 year fixed term rate, which would have been £20 a month 
cheaper. But Miss C wasnt  happy  that shed  be tied in for two years, and felt shed been 
discriminated against. She complained.
Halifax said it was sorry to hear about  Miss Cs health problems. But it said it didnt have a 
record of any of the previous applications  Miss C had mentioned. Miss C had also said that it 
had all started when  she asked Halifax for a review in 2012, but Halifax  didnt have a record 
of that either. It asked  for specific  names, dates, application numbers etc to trace its records 
of what Miss C had said.
Miss C told Halifax  that she hadnt  been  able to recall the exact dates of the appointments, 
so shed estimated  them.  She explained  that her medical condition  meant  she found it 
difficult to deal with these issues. But she sent Halifax a copy of her diary  where  shed 
written in an appointment shed had with a named  adviser in July 2015.  Miss C said shed 
Ref: DRN29183702also called  into the branch  on a couple of other occasions and someone had been  able to 
see her straightaway.  Shed been  told she couldnt make any changes to her mortgage, 
because in her current  circumstances she wouldnt be eligible for a mortgage if she were 
applying as a new customer. 
In its final response,  Halifax said that records of any application were  created automatically, 
without the need for any staff action. But it didnt  have any records of Miss C applying  before 
2018. 
Halifax also explained that in 2012, it wouldnt  have needed to ask any questions  about Miss 
Cs income. Changes  to mortgage regulation in 2014 meant that in 2015 it would have 
needed information about income  but that wouldnt have prevented  Miss C changing her 
interest rate. Miss Cs income and expenditure details  would  have been  assessed to see if 
she could move from interest only to repayment.  And if not, shed have been allowed to 
transfer her interest  only mortgage to a new rate.
Halifax also said that although it had no record of contact from Miss C before 2018, the fixed 
rate which would have been available in 2015 was higher than shed  been  paying then, or at 
any time since then.
Finally, Halifax  said that although it had no records of Miss C applying to port her mortgage 
to her mothers property, it might still be able to consider this. It explained  to Miss C how to 
make this application.
Miss C wasnt  satisfied  and complained to this service that Halifax:
-wouldnt allow her to review her mortgage and switch to a better deal, because she 
was on benefits;  and
-wouldnt allow her to transfer (port) her mortgage to another property.
The investigator didnt  uphold Miss Cs complaint.
In relation to the 2015 mortgage review, the investigator obtained Halifaxs system notes, 
which didnt show any record of any conversation with Miss C. But she pointed out that the 
fixed interest rates available in 2015 were  at 4.49%, which was more  expensive than Miss 
Cs standard variable  rate of 3.7%.  Miss C replied that it might  be true that there hadnt been  
a better  rate available in 2015,  but shed been  unfairly denied  the opportunity to explore this 
because she was claiming benefits.  She knew other people  who were on a variable tracker  
rate, and interest  rates were falling, so she wanted to know  whether Halifax offered a 
variable tracker rate. Miss C didnt accept the investigators suggestion that she could have 
found this out online.  She explained that she felt like a second  class citizen when Halifax told 
her shed have to stick with what she had. 
In relation to the 2017 porting application,  the investigator noted that there  was no record  of 
any application on Halifaxs  systems. The investigator accepted that Miss C spoke to 
someone in a branch, but there was no evidence of an application.  So she couldnt say 
Halifax had done  anything wrong.
Miss C didnt accept this. She said the investigators appraisal was very unfair because it 
implied that things  didnt  happen just because Halifax had no record.  When shed produced  
her diary  showing  the 2015  appointment, Halifax hadnt apologised for having implied shed  
made the whole  thing  up, and nor had it explained why it had no record.  
Ref: DRN29183703Miss C said that when she had her appointment to discuss  porting the mortgage,  shed 
provided property  details and value, and the adviser had input these onto the system.  Hed 
told her he would submit it to a manager  and shed be phoned with a decision.  And a week  
later shed been told the underwriters wouldnt approve the application.
Miss C also didnt accept that the more stringent conditions after 2014 might  have  been  a 
reason to reject her application. She wasnt asking for more  money,  just to port the mortgage  
to a more valuable property. And shed have been able to have a lower rate because the 
loan to value would  have been lower. Miss C said that it was an unfair system which 
penalised people  who were on benefits. She said it was setting her up to fail. 
Miss C also provided statements from her mother and brother. They set out the 
circumstances of the porting request, and the specifics about  what  had happened at the 
time. Miss Cs mother had been  with her when Miss C had gone off to get an appointment to 
discuss the request,  and had come back to say shed  been seen straightaway.  And Miss Cs 
brother had been with her when shed received the phone call turning down the porting 
application. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear of Miss Cs health  issues.
Ive set out my findings about Miss Cs complaint in two separate  sections.
Request to change product 
As Ive set out above, theres  a conflict of evidence about Miss Cs approaches to Halifax to 
ask about changing the deal she had on her mortgage, so she could move  to a cheaper  
interest rate. Miss C has given various dates, but especially in July 2015, when she has a 
diary which shows a meeting with Halifax. Halifax  has no records of that meeting, and I 
recognise that Miss C feels  strongly about  that.
When evidence conflicts, I make my decision on whats more likely to have happened.  I 
accept that its likely that Miss C did ask Halifax about moving to a cheaper  rate, though 
clearly I cant  tell exactly what was said, especially when there are no records and it was a 
long time ago. In any case, I wouldnt expect Halifax to have made a record of a 
conversation in a branch about  interest  rates, still less to have kept it some  five years later. 
And whats key to my decision is whether Miss C suffered a financial loss as a result  of what 
she was told by the branch.
Miss Cs mortgage was on the standard variable rate. Her 2016 mortgage statement shows 
that in July 2015 that was 3.99%. For the amount, and loan-to-value,  that Miss C was 
borrowing, Halifaxs fixed rate option was 4.49%. So Miss C would have been worse off if 
shed moved to a fixed rate. And not only would  she have been worse off if shed  changed in 
2015, but that would have continued  through future  years. Thats because interest rates  fell 
steadily, and with it the standard variable  rates. In contrast, the fixed  rate of 4.49% would 
have been just that  fixed at 4.49% for four years. The statements show  that Miss C paid 
Ref: DRN29183704less by being on the standard  variable rate, than she would  have done  on the 2015 fixed 
rate, throughout the whole of that four year period.
I recognise that Miss C said that even if shed have  paid more by changing, she was unfairly 
denied the opportunity to change to the fixed rate in 2015 because  she was on benefits, and 
that was discrimination.  But when we award  compensation, we do so on the basis  of actual 
financial loss, and whats fair and reasonable. Miss C didnt suffer  a financial  loss by 
remaining on the standard variable  rate. And I think its likely  that Halifaxs  branch staff 
would have told Miss C that the fixed rate would be dearer. I dont think  its likely  that they 
said she couldnt move  to the dearer fixed rate because the bank discriminated against 
people on benefits.  
So I dont  uphold this part of Miss Cs complaint, because she was better off through  not 
changing from the standard variable rate.
Application to port her mortgage
Again, theres  a conflict of evidence about  what happened  here.  Miss C initially explained  
that she got in touch  with Halifax after her benefits  were reduced in 2017. Backed  up by 
statements from her family, shes then said she had an appointment with a Halifax  branch in 
2016. As Ive set out above, she said the adviser  took details, entered them  on a computer, 
and said shed hear back. A week later she had a phone call saying she couldnt port her 
mortgage to her mothers property. I recognise  that Miss C has told us that her medical  
condition makes this sort of thing difficult for her, and in fact it doesnt  make a difference  to 
the outcome whether it was in 2016 or 2017.  
Halifax, however, says it has no record of any applications before 2018.  Ive looked at the 
records it has provided and can find nothing about a request to port the mortgage.
As the evidence conflicts, I again  need  to make my decision on what I consider is more  likely 
to have happened. I have  looked at all the circumstances and evidence very carefully.  I have 
to decide what  is fair and reasonable overall, and come to a conclusion. 
We wouldnt expect a lender to keep records indefinitely.  And although I recognise Miss Cs 
family has provided statements to say that she did speak to the branch  in 2016, theres no 
documentary evidence  about the reasons why any porting application was turned down. 
Without that, I cant assess whether any refusal was made fairly or unfairly. 
The property Miss C was thinking about buying  has since  been  sold,  and Ive also had to 
bear in mind  that Miss C didnt ask Halifax  to reconsider, or complain  about  the refusal, until 
late 2018. 
Taking all these factors into account, I cant find that Halifax  treated Miss C unfairly in 
respect of a porting application.      
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2020.
Ref: DRN29183705Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2918370