complaint
Ms L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund £8,000  lost when she fell victim  to a 
scam.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 15 December 2020. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached to, and forms part of, my final decision.  
Ms L responded to say she accepted my provisional decision. HSBC  responded and made  a 
number of further points (which  I have summarised only briefly  in my findings below  for 
accessibility and to comply with our statutory duty to resolve disputes with minimum 
formality). 
Now both sides have had the opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  outcome  as in my provisional decision, and for 
materially the same reasons. 
HSBC has indicated there is no reference, in my provisional decision, to any legal or 
regulatory standards against which its actions has been judged.  In particular HSBC place 
emphasis on what it refers to as the so-called Quincecare duty. I take this to refer to the 
legal case of Barclays Bank plc v Quincecare  Ltd [1992] 4 All ER 363, which HSBC has said 
I didnt engage  with, and the BSI: PAS 17271 Code.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I have taken  into account the law, regulators rules  and 
guidance, relevant  codes  of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. But I would add that, while we have to take account of relevant law  
were not bound by it because  of our wider fair and reasonable jurisdiction.
When thinking about whats fair and reasonable, banks  and we do also need to take account 
of the wider regulatory environment for the protection of consumers, such as the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys  general principles on treating customers  fairly,  and any relevant codes 
of good conduct and/or good industry practice.  My fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced  
such matters in many previous decisions published  on our website. In brief summary, in 
addition to the Payment Services Regulations,  firms  have to be mindful that (amongst  other 
things):
Regulated banks  must  conduct their business  with due skill, care and diligence  (FCA 
Principle for Businesses 2) and pay due regard to the interests  of [their]  customers 
(Principle 6);
Banks have a longstanding regulatory  duty to take reasonable care to establish and 
maintain effective systems and controls  for compliance with applicable  requirements  and 
standards under the regulatory system and for countering  the risk that the firm might be 
Ref: DRN2886347used to further financial crime (SYSC  3.2.6R of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook, which has applied  since  2001);
Regulated banks  are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering 
and countering the financing of terrorism requirements. At the material  time, those 
requirements included  maintaining proportionate  and risk-sensitive  policies and 
procedures to identify,  assess  and manage  money laundering risk, e.g. through 
customer due-diligence measures  and the ongoing monitoring of the business 
relationship (including through  the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the 
course of the relationship); 
The law itself also recognises that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes  a 
payment in circumstances  where it has reasonable grounds  (although  not necessarily 
proof) for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the 
funds of its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty). I am mindful, however, that the 
courts have interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this complaint are 
different to that case and I am not suggesting Quincecare applies  in this case, only to 
make the point that the broad legal position  that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
that a customer authorises is not absolute and Quincecare (like the other  matters  I have 
referred to here) is an example of that; and 
as a matter of good industry practice at the time,  I consider banks should  have sought to 
identify and help prevent transactions   particularly unusual or uncharacteristic ones 
which could involve  fraud or be the result of a scam.
Having considered everything  carefully  I dont see any conflict  between the outcome 
proposed in my provisional decision and the relevant caselaw and/or regulatory codes etc. 
Overall, I consider my view and the courts position  appear broadly comparable and seek to 
achieve a fair and reasonable  outcome.  In addition, I consider that my findings are 
consistent with DISP 3.6.4R.
HSBC disagree that it ought to have intervened when Ms L was making a payment for 
£8,000. It says even  if it had, it thinks it most  likely Ms L would have told it the payment of 
£8,000 related to roofing  work that she was having done. It says the value  of the payment 
would not have seemed unreasonable in this context.
I dont expect banks  to unreasonably disrupt transactions that appear (and are)
legitimate; or ignore  the general  principle  that consumers also have responsibility for
their decisions  and the payments they authorise. But I do think  there are certain cases
where, on those specific facts, it would have been fair and reasonable for a bank to take
action because the fraud alerts, that they are supposed to deploy for regulatory and legal
reasons, probably  could  and should  have been  triggered by transactions  so unusual or
uncharacteristic as to arouse  reasonable grounds  for believing that the authorised
payment is in fact an attempt to misappropriate funds. And for the reasons set out in my
provisional decision and here, Im persuaded that applies here. And I consider in the 
individual circumstances  of this case it would have been fair and reasonable for HSBC to 
have intervened and asked discreet questions about  the payment before  processing it 
because:
-the transfer was considerably higher in value than any other withdrawal made,  during  
the previous 12 months
Ref: DRN2886347-during that period there was often only one debit  transaction each  month and I cant 
see any month when there  have  been  any more than three debit transactions leaving 
the account
-of these debit  transactions,  the largest is for less than £1,000. The spending  is most  
often to pay a credit  card bill or council tax 
-from what Ive seen  it is not evident that, during this time, Ms L had ever set up a new 
payee, nor made a bank transfer  payment to a private individual
I acknowledged in my provisional  decision  that there is a balance to be struck; and I
appreciate the difficulties  faced by banks in meeting  the competing requirements to
provide efficient banking services  to their customers whilst also being alert to fraud.  The
systems and procedures HSBC put in place to manage those competing  demands are a
matter for it. But I maintain that, on the individual facts and circumstances of this
case, there were enough triggers to alert HSBC  to unusual or uncharacteristic account
activity such that an intervention would have been fair and reasonable  and likely to
have prevented the loss.
HSBC suggest  its very unlikely Ms L, feeling intimidated and pressured  by workmen  to make 
the payment,  would have been open with it about any concern. But for the reasons already 
explained in my provisional decision,  I dont agree with this analysis. Of course, I cant know 
for sure what would have  happened,  so I have to base my findings on what I consider is 
more likely than not to have happened  based on what I know and the evidence  I have.
I mentioned in my provisional decision some example  questions  that I consider HSBC could 
have asked. This was not an exhaustive list and it is, of course, up to HSBC to ask what  
questions it deems fit and any follow up questions would be dependent on Ms Ls responses. 
But this doesnt  distract from my position that, in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint, HSBC ought fairly and reasonable to have intervened and asked  questions  due to 
the unusual nature of the payment Ms L was intending to make. And had it done so I remain  
persuaded that the scam would have been  revealed. 
I agree  with HSBC,  in that if they had asked Ms L what the payment was for its most  likely 
she would  have told them  it was for roofing work. But I dont agree it follows  that HSBC 
should have stopped its questions there,  on the basis  that £8,000 would not have seemed 
an unreasonable amount in the context of this answer.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I think it fair and reasonable that HSBC ought  to 
have asked further questions of the payment, to satisfy itself that Ms L wasnt at risk of 
financial harm. And, for the reasons explained in my provisional decision,  had it done  so it 
would have made the difference  and I think it more likely than not the scam would have been 
uncovered. 
I remain persuaded that its more likely  than not the answers Ms L is likely to have  given 
would have done nothing to reassure  HSBC that she wasnt  at risk of financial harm.  Ms L 
hadnt been given a cover  story  and she wasnt trying  to hide anything.  Therefore,  I think it 
more likely than not she would have spoken  freely.  With this, had HSBC intervened  and 
asked questions, as I think  it ought  to have done, it could fairly and reasonably have 
established that;
-Ms L had been cold called  by the rogue traders,  who turned up at her door, holding  
two roof tiles
Ref: DRN2886347-she didnt have  a written contract  for the work  and the workmen  were on her roof 
before any agreement had been reached
-she was being  pressured
I think it likely that the contact, I think HSBC ought to have made, would have come from a 
specialist fraud team  of some sort, trained to identify circumstances where customers are at 
risk and to have a familiarity with the main types  of fraud and scams. As I said in my 
provisional decision, rogue trader scams  were,  and still are common. So I think they would 
have been well known  to banks at the time. As such,  I dont think its an unreasonable 
expectation for HSBCs fraud  team at that time to have had an awareness  of these types  of 
scam. I think the answers Ms L would  likely  have given, ought to have alerted HSBC that 
she may have been at risk of financial harm. 
I dont agree with HSBCs analysis that because Ms L was being pressured  to make the 
payment she wouldnt  have been open with them. I consider HSBC ought  to have 
recognised Ms L may have been at risk of financial harm and what  was happening carried  
the hallmarks of a potential scam. Given this context, I think  HSBC could have gone on to 
speak to Ms L specifically  about these types of scams and what they looked and felt like. 
Had it done, as I said in my provisional decision,  I dont think  Ms L wouldve proceeded with 
the payment and I think it more likely than not she wouldve called the police  and/or  trading 
standards sooner than she did. I dont consider this to be a finding made with the benefit of 
hindsight, which HSBC  has expressed concerns about. The actions Ms L eventually took, 
when becoming  suspicious, merely support my belief that I see no reason why she would 
have acted any differently, had she known she may have been at risk sooner than she did. 
On balance, I remain persuaded  it was the failure of HSBC that caused the loss  but for its 
inaction in the face of unusual or uncharacteristic activity, the loss probably wouldnt have 
occurred.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above and before, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
HSBC UK Bank Plc must  pay Ms L: 
-the £8,000 she lost through  the scam
-£400 for the trouble  and upset 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  26 February 2021.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2886347COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund £8,000  lost when she fell victim  to a 
scam.
background
In March 2018 Ms L and her husband were the victims of a scam. It is not in dispute that 
what happened was a scam, so I have used the term scammers  throughout to refer to the 
third parties involved.
Sadly, since the scam took place Ms Ls husband  has passed  away. 
On 22 March 2018 two men came to Ms Ls door,  Ms L has told us the men were  carrying  
two roof tiles. The men explained they were working on a neighbours roof (next door but 
one), but while they were waiting for some tiles to be delivered, theyd noticed a couple  of 
Ms Ls tiles needed replacing. 
The men offered to fix Ms Ls roof for £20.00.  Ms L could see there was scaffolding  erected 
on her neighbours  property and the roof had been stripped of tiles. So she felt secure the 
men were  working on her neighbours property, as they said they were.  So she agreed for 
the work  to be carried out.  
The men told Ms L they would waive the charge and suggested she donate  the £20.00 to 
the church. Unknown to her at the time, the men were scammers. 
Ms L says things then started to move  very quickly, with a cement mixer appearing in their 
garden, scaffolding  going  up and more men going  up on their roof. Ms L has said no money 
had exchanged hands at this point. Ms L has told us, her and her husband then had to go to 
the hospital as an ambulance had arrived to collect Mr L. Mr L suffered with his health and 
was on 24-hour  oxygen - he had a pre-arranged appointment which  he needed to attend.
On their return from hospital, the men had gone,  but tiles had been removed from the roof, 
exposing it to the elements. 
The following  day, 23 March 2018,  the men returned and went back  up on the roof. They 
then came into Ms Ls house and explained things were serious with water  seeping  under 
the tiles. Ms L has told us they talked non-stop for at least  45 minutes and told her the repair 
work would cost around £13,000.
Ms L has said her husband  only wanted to pay £4,000  but when she left the room  the men 
followed her. Shes said they kept saying  that her husband wasnt  well and she needed to 
make the decision,  and if she didnt agree to pay a reduced price  of £8,000 within a few 
minutes the price  would go up.
Ms L has told us she was put under  untold  pressure, with the men continuingly telling her 
what a great  deal it was. Shes said she felt she had no way out and felt intimidated. Shes 
said she was pushed  into accepting their price of £8,000  for the work  to be carried out. The 
men asked for this to be paid in cash,  but Ms L didnt keep this much money in the house  
Ref: DRN2886347so she went ahead and made a payment online, for £8,000, to the account details the men 
gave her.
The following  day the men returned  again  and said theyd noticed some  work was needed 
on the chimney. Using the same tactics, the scammers persuaded Ms L to make  another  
payment to them for £1,900. Ms L made this payment from an account she holds with 
another bank   which has since  refunded the money  to Ms L.
When the men then returned  again asking for more money, Ms L became suspicious and 
she contacted  the Police and Trading Standards. She was advised to not let the men back 
onto her property. 
Ms L raised  a complaint  with HSBC. HSBC issued its final response on 23 April 2018.  It said 
while it was sorry Ms L had to experience this in her home, it had a duty to act on her 
instruction. HSBC contacted the receiving  bank to see if any money could be recovered, but 
unfortunately no funds  remained. 
Ms L didnt  agree with HSBCs response, so asked this service to investigate.
One of our investigators  looked into things and upheld  Ms Ls complaint. In summary, he felt 
HSBC ought to have been concerned  with the unusual activity  that was taking place on     
Ms Ls account. And that it didnt go far enough in proactively contacting  Ms L before  
allowing the payment to be processed. Our investigator thought  that had HSBC intervened, 
as he thought it ought to have done,  the scam could have been prevented.
HSBC didnt agree with our investigators  view.  In summary it said;
-There was no staff interaction in this case and it didnt consider that even if there  had 
been intervention  it would  have  made  a difference
-It did not consider  it had breached  its duty to Ms L.
-Ms L had sufficient knowledge to contact HSBC sooner  and either delayed in doing 
so, or there are inconsistencies  in her version of events
-This was a one-off, single payment transaction. While it was for a higher amount than 
other previous transactions on the account HSBC thought the payment itself,  at 
£8,000, was still relatively modest. And if HSBC were required to challenge all such  
payment transactions on customer accounts,  this would prevent the timely and 
effective operation of accounts
-It did not consider  it could have permissibly stopped the payments 
The case  has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold Ms Ls 
complaint and Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. 
Ref: DRN2886347But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators  rules and guidance,  relevant  codes  of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  And, with that 
in mind, I consider  HSBC  should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.  
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  And is 
something recognised  by the British Standards Institutes (BSIs) October 2017  
Protecting Customers from Financial  harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse   
Code of Practice 
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
Identify and assist  vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation.
In this case, I need to decide  whether HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with 
Ms L when  she made the transaction for £8,000,  or whether it should have done more than it 
did.
Did HSBC act fairly and reasonably in this case?
As Ive explained, as a matter of good practice HSBC should have been  on the lookout for 
unusual and out of character transactions,  at the time Ms L and her late husband fell victim 
to this scam.
There is no disputing in this case that Ms L has been the victim of a sophisticated  scam,  
resulting in her losing £8,000. It is common ground that Ms L authorised the scam payment  
of £8,000. She was deceived and pressured  into making an online payment, believing it was 
towards roof repairs. 
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Ms L was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She used her security  credentials to request the payment. So, although 
she did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services  
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Ms L is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance.  
Ive thought carefully about what HSBC has said, that if it were required to challenge all such  
payments transactions on customer accounts, this would prevent the timely and effective 
operation of such accounts.  I accept these issues can be finely balanced.  I agree there is a 
balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and 
ensuring minimal disruption  to legitimate payments. 
But this shouldnt distract  HSBC from its obligations to detect and prevent fraud regardless 
of the method or channel  of the payment. The question I need to consider  here is: based  on 
all the circumstances  of this complaint, whether HSBC ought fairly  and reasonably to have 
done more in Ms Ls case to challenge the payment, before allowing it to be processed.
Ref: DRN2886347HSBC has said in the circumstances a one-off payment of £8,000 (where the account in 
question had a credit balance of over £67,000) its concerns wouldnt have been serious 
enough to amount to reasonable grounds to stop the payment.
But based  on the evidence Ive seen  I think,  irrespective of the balance  on the account, the 
payment of £8,000 was out of character for how the account is typically run. 
I say this as from looking  at the statements  for this account, for the 12 months leading  up to 
the scam,  this transfer was considerably higher in value than any other  withdrawal made. 
During that period there is often only one debit transaction each month  and I cant see any 
month when there have  been any more than three  debit transactions  leaving the account. Of 
these debit transactions, the largest  is for less than £1,000. The spending is most often to 
pay a credit card bill or council tax. From what Ive seen it is not evident  that, during  this 
time, Ms L has ever set up a new payee, nor made a bank transfer payment to a private 
individual.
Overall, I think the combination of Ms L making  a transaction to a new payee,  that was over 
eight times  more than any other payment Ms L had made during the whole of the previous 
year, can fairly and reasonably be considered as unusual  and not typical of how the account  
is usually run. 
Because of the unusual activity on Ms Ls account  that I have mentioned  above,  I think 
HSBC ought to have had concerns about the payment of £8,000. In all the circumstances, I 
consider HSBC ought fairly and reasonably to have  asked  further  questions  about the 
payment Ms L was intending  to make, before processing it.
Had HSBC taken those  steps, Im satisfied Ms L wouldve  confirmed what the payment  was 
for. After all, Ms L hadnt been given a cover  story  and she wasnt  trying  to hide anything. 
Therefore, I think it more likely than not she would have spoken freely. In doing so, Im 
persuaded Ms L would  have told HSBC the payment was to pay for repairs to her roof.
Knowing the payment was for roof repairs and given the size of the payment Ms L was 
requesting to make, I think HSBC ought  reasonably  to have asked further questions  about 
the payment  particularly given the prevalence  of rogue trader scams which were, and still 
are common.
 
In these particular  circumstances, Ive thought about  the sorts of additional  questions  HSBC 
couldve asked. HSBC  couldve, for example, asked  Ms L how shed heard of the roofers, 
what work was she intending  to have carried out, had she spoken  to her neighbours about 
the work  they were having carried out, had she received other quotes, did she have a written  
contract for the work and was she being pressured?
I think Ms L is more likely than not to have explained she hadnt  intended  to have any work 
done; the roofers had just appeared  at her door, she hadnt received a written  contract, she 
hadnt spoken to her neighbours and the roofers had already started to take tiles off her roof. 
I dont think the answers Ms L would likely have given, would have done anything to 
reassure HSBC that Ms L wasnt  at risk of financial  harm.
I think its unlikely a reputable company would turn up, unannounced, with a couple  of roof 
tiles in their hands  and start taking tiles off of a potential customers  roof, without an 
agreement in place  that a customer  wanted  the work carried out. And with this and 
Ref: DRN2886347considering the answers I think Ms L would have given, I think HSBC could have spoken to 
Ms L about what rogue trader scams looked and felt like in the context  of the payment  she 
was asking to make.
Had HSBC asked additional questions, as I think it ought to have done, I dont think Ms L 
wouldve proceeded with the payment and I think she wouldve called the police and/or 
trading standards sooner than she did. It follows that I dont think  she would have  then gone  
on to make the payment for £8,000   nor the second  payment she made for £1,900 from 
another bank  account she held (which was ultimately refunded).
I consider it fair and reasonable for me to say my conclusions, about  what is likely to have 
happened if HSBC  had asked probing  questions,  are reinforced by the fact that Ms L did go 
straight to the police when she became suspicious of what was happening.  I think it more  
likely than not, the questions I think HSBC ought to have asked would have alerted Ms L she 
was at risk and she would  have stopped  in her tracks. The fraud would have failed and Ms L 
wouldnt have lost £8,000.
Ive thought carefully about what HSBC has said, that it thinks Ms L had sufficient knowledge 
to contact HSBC sooner.  But while  Ms L has said she was put under pressure to make a 
payment, she still considered that work would be done. And it wasnt until a couple of days 
later, when the fraudsters continued to suggest  other work needed to be done, that she 
became suspicious.  So I dont agree she had sufficient knowledge that she was potentially 
being scammed, nor do I agree there  are inconsistencies  in her version of events. 
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for completeness,  
I will say that, from what  Ive seen HSBC records show it did try and recover  the funds in a 
timely manner, but no funds remained  in the receiving bank. 
I have also considered whether Ms L was herself  blameworthy  in some way. But I am not 
persuaded that she is. All things considered, I am satisfied she was simply the unwitting and 
blameless victim of clever and cruel  scammers, who have preyed on her and her late 
husbands vulnerability.
In the circumstances, I am satisfied HSBC should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Ms L for 
the loss she suffered, without any reduction. 
I also think it is appropriate to make an award  of £400 for the distress  and inconvenience   
Ms L has suffered,  shes explained that this has caused great distress for her and in 
particular for her late husband  before  he sadly passed away.  In reaching that conclusion I 
am mindful  that this loss was ultimately  caused  by the callous act of the scammers and it 
was an authorised transaction, but HSBC could ultimately have prevented  the payment. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend  to uphold  Ms Ls complaint. My provisional  decision 
is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should;
-refund  Ms L the £8,000 she lost through the scam
-pay £400 for the trouble and upset 
Ref: DRN2886347Ill give both parties until 5 January 2021  to respond to provide any further comments or 
evidence before reviewing  the matter again.
Ref: DRN2886347