K821x#15complaint
The Trust  complains  that Interim  Wealth  Limited  ("Interim"),  an appointed  
representative  of Continuum  Wealth  Limited  ("Continuum"),  failed  to notify  the Provider  
of an investment  bond  that the maturity  of certain  segments  of the bond  should  be 
deferred  in November  2016.  The Trust  says  that the consequence  of the bond  maturing  
is an inheritance  tax liability  that would  not have  otherwise  been  incurred.
For ease,  I'll refer  to Interim  in this decision  rather  than Continuum  as it was Interim  that 
was directly  involved  in the events  being  complained  about.
background
I issued my provisional decision on the complaint  to the parties in December 2020   and that 
decision is attached  below and forms part of this decision.
In my provisional decision I concluded the complaint should be upheld and Continuum 
should pay compensation for the inheritance  tax incurred  as a result  of the maturity of the 
bond segments.   In summary, the reasons for my conclusions were that:
Interim was acting  as Fund Manager and knew the broad objectives of the Trust.
As a regulated  business Interim had an obligation to act in its clients  best interest.
The Trust was moving its business to Interim because of a perceived deficiency in 
the administration of Business B (its previous Fund  Manager  and servicing  agent).
Its difficult to see how Interim could  have fulfilled its role as Fund  Adviser  without 
knowing the Trustees intentions and what funds would be available.
If Interim didnt have  the necessary information from the Trustees to perform its role, 
then is should  have declined to act as Fund  Adviser.
One of the Trustees responded to my provisional decision on behalf of the Trust.  He 
accepted my findings but asked if I also considered it fair for the Trust to be reimbursed for 
any commissions or fees that were paid to Interim.  
Continuum also responded  with detailed comments but didnt accept my conclusions.  Ive 
considered its response if full, but in summary  it said:
It feels let down  by our process and that 100% responsibility is being apportioned to 
Interim when its clear our Service hasnt found  the complaint  straightforward  to 
decide.
It considers that the original adviser firm (Business B) is responsible, and further  
information has come to light since a previous complaint was not upheld  against that 
firm.
When moving across from Business B, Mr W introduced around 200 clients to Interim 
in order to rescue them from the service  failings of Business B.
Within the 200 clients that moved across from Business  B there  were  a number 
which were invested in the Estate Preservation  Bond  (EPB)  and it said that we 
knew that the 10 EPB clients had to received special attention,  precisely because  of 
the potential to miss the rollover.
Interim had a number of meetings with Trustees starting almost a year before the 
segments matured, and a number of warnings were  given to them.
Although the Trustees werent warned in writing as a piece of advice,  there were  
clear warnings  about the need  for them to speak to an adviser and do something.
Ref: DRN29277892The Trustees knew that the papers needed to be signed for the transfer of agencies  
in relation to the bond and the funds  but the signed form was not returned to 
Interim for the bond.
The Trustees were  aware  that Interim could not act in relation to the bond until the 
transfer of agency had been  completed  and a full fact-find could be completed.  Until 
that time Business B was still acting as financial adviser and would have needed to 
sign the forms needed to defer the segments maturing.
It may have been suitable for the segments to mature at the time in any event   as 
Mrs M was contemplating moving,  and had expressed  a need for the cash to be able 
to buy a property  before  selling her existing one.
Ive considered the circumstances  of the complaint  again taking account of the responses  
received.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I remain of the view that 
the complaint  should be upheld, and the Trust should be compensated.
I should start by saying  that I acknowledge and understand the representations made by 
Interim in relation  to the role of Business B and the previous complaint considered  by a 
different ombudsman about  that firm.  But in this complaint,  Im looking specifically at the 
actions of Interim, and whether it is fair and reasonable to compensate the Trust as a result 
of its actions.
Although Interim says further information  has become available since an ombudsman  
considered the Trusts complaint against  Business  B, that complaint is closed and Interim is 
not a party  to it.  I have,  however, considered the role of Business B in the wider  
circumstances of this complaint, when deciding what Interim should do to put things right.
As Ive explained above, my attached provisional  decision forms part of this decision, and so 
I wont repeat everything again here.   But I will address the key points raised by Interim  in its 
response to my provisional  decision.
Interim has made it clear that it knew about  the Trusts objective of mitigating inheritance  tax 
liability, and that there  was a need for segments of the EPB to be deferred to avoid the 
maturity of funds to Mrs M.  And whilst its clear that the relationship between the Trust and 
Interim existed for many months before the maturity  of the segments, I do note it says that 
multiple warnings were given to the Trustees.   
I also appreciate that Interim could not act in the capacity of financial adviser  to the Trust 
until all the Trustees  has signed the transfer  of agency forms.  And it follows that this limited  
Interims ability to deal with the EPB.
Having said that, Im also mindful that as a regulated  firm, Interim was required to treat its 
customers fairly and act in their best interests.  It says it identified  that the Trust, along  with 
other customers, were  at risk of service  failings by Business B  to the extent that it set out 
(as described by itself) to rescue those clients.  It further noted that there  were  greater risks 
for a group of clients who were invested  in EPB and said:
Ref: DRN29277893we knew that the 10 EPB clients  had to receive  special  attention,  precisely because of 
the potential to miss the rollover.
So Interim  had identified  those customers (including the Trust)  were  at risk of detriment.  
Having identified that risk, I remain of the opinion that Interim could have done more to 
ensure the Trusts  objective of mitigating inheritance tax was met. There  were several 
meetings between trustees and Interim in the months leading  to the segments maturing, and 
I have little doubt the annual deferral of those segments would have been discussed, but Ive 
seen no written record of warnings being given.
I note Interim has highlighted  that as Business B was still in place as financial adviser to the 
Trust, it had a responsibility to advise  the Trustees on the maturing segments.  This  may 
have been the case, but I dont think  it was fair for Interim to rely upon  that  particularly as 
the reason the Trust was being encouraged  to move away from Business B was due to 
perceived failings  in its service and administration.
Interim also explained  that it felt allowing the maturity of segments of the bond  may have 
been suitable at the time in any event.   In its response to my provisional  decision, Interim 
explained that Mrs M was contemplating  moving home, but wanted  to be able to avoid a 
chain and to be able to buy a new property  before  selling her existing  one.  Whilst I 
understand the logic to this, I dont think its reasonable  for me to speculate about  that as a 
possible objective  particularly given it would have negated the overriding purpose of the 
Trust and increased the taxable value of Mrs Ms estate.
So overall, I consider  it fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint and to ask Interim to 
compensate the Trust for the full inheritance tax loss.  
fair compensation
As settlor of the EPB bond, Mrs M received a cheque for the proceeds of the relevant 
segments of the EPB. The Trust  has produced evidence that this was for approximately  
£77,000.
It doesn't appear  to be in dispute that the result of the segments maturing was that, on Mrs 
Ms passing,  this sum formed part of Mrs Ms estate and was therefore subject to inheritance 
tax  at 40%.
As set out above, if the segments hadn't matured,  the value of the segments would not have 
been subject to inheritance tax. So, I think fair compensation would be for Continuum  to pay 
the Trust the amount of tax paid on this amount. Additionally, it should add 8% simple  
interest a year on the amount  of tax paid to the date of payment  to reflect the fact the Trust 
has been unfairly deprived  of the use this money  in that time.
The Trust will need to provide evidence of the tax liability to Continuum.
I understand Interim  disagrees and feels that Business B is responsible for the losses.  So 
as part of putting things right, any compensation payable to the Trust should be contingent 
on the assignment by it to Continuum  of any rights  of action the Trust may have against 
other parties  relating to the inheritance tax liability.
Ive also considered the request made by the Trustee to include reimbursement of fees and 
commissions.  But given that those would have been payable in any event in the course of 
Ref: DRN29277894the operation  of the Trust, I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable to include them  in any 
award.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the Trusts complaint against  Continuum Wealth Limited, 
and I direct it to put things  right by paying the fair compensation Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the Trust to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2021.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29277895COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
The Trust  complains that Interim Wealth Limited ("Interim"), an appointed representative  of Continuum  
Wealth Limited ("Continuum"),  failed to notify the Provider of an investment bond that the maturity of 
certain segments of the bond in November 2016 should be deferred. The Trust  says that the 
consequence of the bond maturing  is an inheritance tax liability that would not have otherwise been 
incurred.
For ease,  I'll refer to Interim in this decision rather than Continuum as it was Interim that was directly 
involved in the events being complained about.
background
This matter  was initially looked at by another ombudsman.  It has been passed to me for consideration 
because the previous ombudsman is working  in a different area of our Service on other matters.
As set out in my own provisional findings below, I've reached a different view to the previous 
ombudsman for reasons  that I'll explain in this decision.
The background  to this complaint is that in 2003 Mr and Mrs M invested in an Investment  Bond - the 
Estate Preservation Bond  ("the EPB") - that was held in trust.  The purpose of the EPB was to mitigate 
against their potential inheritance  tax liability. The EPB was administered by a business  which I'll 
simply refer to as the Provider  in this decision.
The adviser  ("Mr W) who recommended  the EPB was employed by the original adviser firm 
("Business B"). He was also appointed  as one of the Trustees  of the EPB and the address  for the 
Trustees was that of Business B.
The way the EPB worked was that individual policies (segments) within  the bond would automatically 
mature each year so that money  could  be taken out of the investment if Mr and Mrs M needed it. But 
if they didn't  then it was possible  to defer the maturity. As I understand it, the relevant segments of the 
bond were  deferred year on year by the Trust as a primary concern  of Mr and Mrs M was to minimise  
any inheritance tax liability  that might otherwise  arise on the funds invested.
The Provider  would write to the Trustees and Business B a month or so before maturity  of the 
relevant segments was due to take place, listing the segments and giving the Trustees the option of 
deferring maturity.
As the address for the Trustees was the same as the address for Business B it got both letters sent 
by the Provider. This didn't  create any problem  whilst Mr W was still employed by Business B as he 
would get both the copy of the letter sent to Business B as servicing agent  and also the letter sent to 
the Trustees at the address of Business B.
But by 2016 Mr W was no longer employed by Business B. He had moved to Interim as a 
Relationship Director. And between the Provider initially writing to Business B and the Trustees about  
the segments being due to mature, and the segments maturing, Interim was appointed by the 
Trustees as the Fund Adviser for the bond. The Provider  confirmed Interim  was Fund Adviser as of 19 
October 2016. But, importantly,  it seems that the form appointing Interim as servicing agent wasn't  
completed and that function  remained with Business  B.
No updated address for the Trustees  had been given to the Provider.  This meant that when the 
Provider wrote  to Business  B and the Trustees  about the segments  of the bond due to mature in 
November 2016 both letters were still sent to Business B's address. The letters  were  not sent to a 
new address  for the Trustees nor to Interim.
Ref: DRN29277896None of Business B, the Trustees nor Interim  filled out the forms for the deferral of the maturity of the 
bond. And as the Provider didn't receive any instruction to defer the maturity  of the relevant sections 
of the bond, they matured on 10 November  2016 and a cheque  was issued to Mrs M for the maturity  
proceeds of around £77,000.  As this money formed part of Mrs M's estate,  it later became  subject to 
inheritance tax when she sadly died in 2017. It is this tax liability that the Trust now want  to be 
compensated for.
The Trustees  initially complained about Business  B and that complaint was referred  to this Service.  A 
final decision  was issued on that complaint in which  the ombudsman found that Business  B could've  
done more to contact the Trustees when  it received  the letters  from the Provider in 2016. But he didn't 
think it was fair to hold it responsible for the segments maturing when Interim had been appointed as 
Fund Adviser.
The Trustees  then complained to Interim. One of our investigators considered the complaint and 
thought that Interim, as Fund Adviser, could've done more to make the Trustees aware  of the pending 
maturity of segments. He said that it was receiving  fees as of October  2016, so it was reasonable for 
it to be held responsible for the segment  maturity,  as confirmed by the application appointing it as 
Fund Manager which refers  to it selecting and deselecting units. The investigator thought that Interim 
had a responsibility to review the investments as soon as it was appointed as Fund Adviser and had 
enough time to do so.
The investigator also noted Interim was given  details of other segment  maturities in 2017 and the 
Provider accepted instructions from it on how to deal with the maturing segments. This indicates  the 
Provider thought it could provide this information to Interim. So, his view was that Interim should  have 
undertaken this process in 2016.
Continuum didn't agree  with the investigator's conclusions and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It said that although  Interim was the Fund Adviser,  that role didn't require it to know about 
maturing segments, because they are life insurance  policies and so the Provider  simply sells the units 
and pays the maturity  value unless instructed  not to. The Fund adviser doesn't need to know about  
this as it can do nothing about it. It simply advises  on the money left in the bond.
The previous ombudsman issued a provisional decision  that said he wasn't  minded  to uphold the 
complaint against Continuum - but invited  further comments for consideration. He was of the view that 
the Fund Adviser's role was to ensure that whatever the Fund is invested in is a suitable investment. 
But he didn't  think this extended to saying whether  there should be deferral  of segments  of the bond 
that are due to mature.
The Trustees  responded  and asked for the matter to be reviewed again  as they believe that it can't  be 
right that none  of Interim,  Business B or Mr W are responsible for the tax liability given  that clearly 
something went wrong.
my provisional  findings
I've considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what's fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Although the background set out above is convoluted, the issues I must  decide are relatively narrow. 
The simple facts  are that Business B remained as the servicing agent  for the EPB when the deferral 
forms were sent out in 2016. But Interim was the Fund Adviser. It's not in dispute that Interim didn't 
receive the deferral forms from any of Business B, the Trustees or the Provider.  And I can't revisit the 
final decision  against Business B. So, the key questions I must  consider are: what  was the role of 
Interim as Fund Adviser in these circumstances and should Interim have done more?
Although it was appointed as Fund Adviser to the EPB in October 2016, Interim  had been involved 
with the Trust since 2015. It had entered into a client agreement in December 2015 and Mr W (in his 
capacity as trustee) met with an Interim adviser  in April 2016.  A further meeting took place between 
Ref: DRN29277897Interim and all but one of the Trustees in September 2016 shortly before the forms were completed 
appointing Interim  as Fund Adviser.
Interim says that a full fact find and detailed assessment of the Trust's aims and objectives didn't take 
place until a later meeting  in December  2016  after the relevant segments of the EPB had matured 
and proceeds  paid to Mrs M. Evidence has been  provided  about this meeting and I accept that the 
meetings prior to this were  likely pre-cursors  to a full fact-find and detailed advice. The client 
agreement from December 2015  said, "Any  advice or recommendation that we offer to you will only 
be given after we have  assessed your needs".
But I also think it's likely that Interim knew the general  nature of the Trust's aims (and the desire to 
mitigate potential inheritance tax liability) from the initial  discussions before it was appointed as Fund 
Adviser. I find it difficult to believe that the nature of the EPB and the Trust's year on year deferral of 
maturity of segments would  not have been discussed at any point. The principle reason why Interim 
was being appointed in place of Business B was because of a perceived  deficiency in Business B's 
administration of the Trust's  affairs - not a deficiency in its advice to the Trust. I note that in this 
respect that Continuum's  director  told us during the course  of this complaint  that:
"Just for the sake of absolute  clarity,  I have never suggested that Interim  did not know about 
the maturing segment."
Even if I proceed on the basis that Interim  didn't know from its earlier  meetings  what the Trust's  aims 
and objectives were, I don't  think it's fair to say that Interim  didn't have an obligation to do more - prior 
to the segments maturing. I'll explain  why.
First, I think it's likely the intention was always that Interim would become the servicing agent  as well 
as Fund Adviser for the bond. There is nothing to suggest that either  the Trust or Interim proceeded 
on the basis that the duties  in respect of the EPB would  be split between  Interim and Business B. So, 
I think  it was a simple administrative error at the time of filling  out the requisite forms for the Provider  
that led to Business B remaining as servicing agent. I think it's fair and reasonable to say that it was 
the role of the regulated  party, Interim, to ensure that the relevant forms were submitted  to the 
Provider  not the role of the Trustees. Had it done this, it would have received information from the 
Provider about the impending maturity of the segments.
Secondly, Interim was appointed Fund Adviser in October 2016.  The Investment Administration Form 
sent to the Provider  on 11 October 2016  said that Interim would:
".. .give instructions to the [Provider] to select and de-select units  in funds for the Account."
Interim was paid commission to carry out this function from the date of its appointment.
It's difficult to see how Interim could have carried out the Fund  Adviser function without  understanding 
the nature of the funds held in the bond and the intentions of the Trustees.  When  the segments 
matured in November  2016, the entirety of the funds were sent by cheque to Mrs M. That appears to 
be the process the Provider adopted in the absence of any other investment  instructions from the 
adviser. So how could Interim have selected and de-selected suitable funds  without understanding 
what funds were available to invest? And how could  it have selected and de-selected suitable funds  
without knowing what the Trust's aims and objectives were. In my view,  Interim couldn't carry out this 
function properly  without first satisfying itself that it had the necessary information and knowledge 
about the bond and trust.
Interim has said that the Trustees  were reluctant to meet with its adviser.  And, as set out above, I 
accept that a full fact-find didn't in fact take place until December 2016. But, that being the case, I 
don't think Interim should have agreed to become Fund Adviser to the EPB in October 2016. I think 
the fair thing  for Interim  to have done if it felt it didn't  have the relevant  information  from the Trust  was 
to decline to become the Fund  Adviser.  I note that Interim has acknowledged that this was a mistake 
on its part.
Ref: DRN29277898By agreeing  to become the Fund Adviser I think it's fair to say that it took on certain  responsibilities  to 
act in the Trust's  best interests. And I think this included  finding  out what the Trust  wanted to do and 
actively take steps  to find out what was happening  with regard to the EPB and any deferral of 
maturing segments. I think it had sufficient time to do this from its appointment as Fund Adviser in 
October 2016.
I've considered the fact that the Trustees themselves  could  have done more to prevent  the deferral of 
the segments of the EPB. Mr W should have updated the address for the Trustees. And of course, he 
knew as well as anyone what the Trust's aims  and objectives were. But I can't be sure that Mr W 
knew exactly when paperwork had to be submitted for the deferral of the segments of the EPB.  The 
Trust entered into a professional relationship  with Interim in order for Interim  to manage these  kinds of 
matters. And as I've said above, Interim was the regulated party,  not the Trust.
Recently, Interim has said that, in any event,  it isn't clear that suitable  advice to the Trust would have 
been to defer  this segment of the bond had they been asked to advise in October  2016.  It says that 
Mrs M might have wanted  to use the proceeds to purchase a property  something she was exploring 
in early 2017.  So Interim  says that suitable advice to Mrs M might therefore  have been allow this 
segment to mature.
I don't think there's sufficient evidence to support  that conclusion. The maturity of the segments was 
deferred year on year and the consistent  aim of the Trust  the reason  why the EPB was set up in the 
first place  was to minimise any potential inheritance tax liability on the money held in the EPB. Even 
if wider plans changed  in 2017, there is little to suggest that there were  firm plans  to buy a property in 
2016 or that the money in the EPB would be used for that purpose.  So, if Interim  had acted on the 
knowledge it had about the Trust and/or done more to ensure it carried out its role as Fund Adviser I 
think the maturity of the segments would have been deferred in November 2016.
fair compensation
As settlor of the EPB bond, Mrs M received a cheque for the proceeds of the relevant  segments of the 
EPB. The Trust has produced evidence that this was for approximately £77,000.
It doesn't appear to be in dispute that the result of the segments maturing  was that, on Mrs Ms 
passing, this sum formed part of Mrs Ms estate and was therefore subject to inheritance tax  at 
40%.
As set out above, if the segments hadn't matured, the value of the segments would not have been 
subject to inheritance tax. So, I think fair compensation would be for Continuum  to pay the Trust the 
amount of tax paid on this amount. Additionally, it should add 8% simple interest a year on the 
amount of tax paid to the date of payment  to reflect the fact the Trust has been unfairly  deprived of 
the use this money in that time.
The Trust  will need to provide evidence  of the tax liability to Continuum.
I know that Continuum believes that Business  B is responsible for the loss. I think it is fair that it 
should be free to pursue  any other parties. So, compensation payable  to the Trust should  be 
contingent on the assignment by it to Continuum  of any rights of action the Trust  may have against 
other parties in relation  to the inheritance  tax liability.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint and ask Continuum  Wealth Limited to 
pay the fair compensation set out above.
Ref: DRN2927789