K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Bamboo Limited  (trading as Bamboo Loans) was irresponsible  to lend to 
him.
background
Mr L took out two loans  from Bamboo between April 2018 and September  2018 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 4 Apr 2018 £2,500 24m £172.74 15 Apr 2020 31 Jul 2018
2 21 Sep 2018 £1,000 12m £102.98 27 Sep 2019 1 Feb 2019
Mr L says that he had multiple other  loans at the time and that Bamboo didnt carry out 
enough checks as it didnt ask him for his bank statements.  He says he understated his 
expenses and did not disclose how much he was spending on gambling.  Mr L says that the 
Bamboo agent talked him into the loan despite the high interest  rate and set-up  cost.  He 
adds that he was living off short-term loans  and this affected him mentally and emotionally, 
as well as financially.
Bamboo says it checked  Mr Ls credit  file and asked him about his income and his living 
arrangements, including rental costs. It says Mr L said both loans were for debt consolidation 
and that he confirmed he would settle any other  short-term loans within  the next two months. 
Bamboo says it used an income  verification  tool and that Mr L also sent bank statements to 
confirm his income. It says that nothing in Mr Ls bank statements or credit  check gave it 
concern about  the affordability  of the loans and there were no gambling transactions 
identified. Bamboo  says it used statistical data to estimate expenditure other than rent and it 
used Mr Ls credit report for debt servicing  costs. Bamboo says appropriate and 
proportionate checks were carried out and that its calculations showed  the loan was 
sustainably affordable to Mr L. It adds  that it listened to the calls from the time and there was 
no evidence that its agent applied any pressure  and no set-up fees were charged.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She considered that 
proportionate checks would have shown Mr L had multiple short-term loans and was 
spending significant amounts on gambling. She said that any payments made by Mr L above  
the principal should be refunded with 8% interest.  She added that Bamboo should  remove 
any negative information about the loans from his credit file.
Bamboo responded to say, in summary,  that there  was no evidence of gambling or short-
term lending on the bank statements it received. It acknowledged that the statements  
showed transfers to another account, but it says the statements were used to verify Mr Ls 
income and showed evidence  of direct debits.
Bamboo adds  that at the time of the second  loan, Mr L applied  for a lower  amount over a 
shorter period and already had a good repayment  history with no other  credit  searches 
evident on his credit file.
Ref: DRN24643592My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr L and to Bamboo on 11 March  2021. All the relevant 
guidelines were  outlined in some detail  in the provisional decision, so I wont  repeat them  
here.
I summarise my findings:
Loan 1
I was satisfied Bamboos checks went far enough  for loan 1 because:
oThis was Mr Ls first loan with Bamboo and the repayments were a relatively 
small percentage of his income;
oI saw evidence that Bamboo verified  Mr Ls income by obtaining  a recent  
bank statement;
oMr L said he was living with his parents  and the reason  for the loan was debt 
consolidation;
oBamboo obtained a detailed credit  report which showed a total credit balance 
of £9,431 across  three active accounts:
A mail order  account with a balance of £136,  although it had a credit 
limit of £800;
A loan for which the monthly repayments  were £187;
A second loan with payments of £17 per month;
oTaking Mr Ls verified income, his existing credit  commitments, declared  
rental costs and a statistical average for other  costs, Bamboo  calculated he 
had a disposable income of over £300.
I couldnt see there was anything in the available information that should have 
prompted Bamboo to carry out further  checks for loan 1;
Given Mr Ls living arrangements and the fact hed said he was using this first loan 
with Bamboo for debt consolidation, I considered it was reasonable for it to find the 
loan repayments  were sustainably affordable to him;
So I couldnt conclude  it was wrong  for Bamboo to have approved loan 1.
Loan 2
For loan 2, I considered Bamboos checks should have included a full review of 
Mr Ls financial circumstances because:
oHis debt had increased since loan 1, and Bamboos later credit  check  now 
showed he had a further loan that wasnt apparent at the time of loan 1;
Ref: DRN24643593oHe hadnt  used loan 1 to consolidate his debt in the way he said he would, 
and he was now applying  for a further £1,000 loan shortly  after repaying  his 
first loan;
oThe repayments on loan 2 meant  Mr L was committed to credit payments of 
almost 28% of his declared income;
I had a look at Mr Ls bank statements from the time of the loans as a reasonable 
proxy for what Bamboo might have found out had it looked  into Mr Ls finances in 
more depth:
oThere was clear  evidence that Mr L was becoming reliant on short-term  loans.  
In the lead up to loan 2, hed borrowed from a short-term lender six times 
since the beginning of August 2018  a total of £880 of loans;
oMr L had spent  almost £750  on gambling transactions  in the month  prior to 
loan 2;
So I was satisfied that proportionate  checks would have shown that Mr L was already 
struggling to manage his money.
My provisional decision was that I found  that it was irresponsible for Bamboo to have 
approved loan 2 based  on what it knew, or ought reasonably to have known, about his 
financial circumstances.
Mr L responded to say he accepted my provisional decision, although he still believed  
he shouldnt have been issued with loan 1 given the financial situation  he was in.
Bamboo responded to say it considered the provisional decision to be fair and 
reasonable and had no further comments to make.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I need to take into account the relevant 
rules, guidance  and good industry practice.
As neither party provided any additional  information,  I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that Bamboo Limited  (trading as Bamboo Loans) should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr L received as a result of having  been given 
loan 2. The repayments Mr L made  should be deducted from this amount;
Ref: DRN24643594oIf this results in Mr L having  paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded  along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were  made  until the date of settlement);
Remove any negative  information recorded on Mr Ls credit file regarding  loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should  
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2021.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2464359