K822xcomplaint
T, a firm of loss adjusters, represents Ms D. She is unhappy with the way her claims for 
earthquake damage under her holiday home  insurance were handled by Society of Lloyds, 
in particular over its applying two excesses to her claims.
background 
Ms D owns  a holiday home outside  the UK. In August 2016, there was an earthquake which  
caused considerable damage to her property. Lloyds had started to assess  the damage but 
didnt fully do so before the end of October, when another  more  severe earthquake affected 
the property. For earthquake damage there is an excess  of 2.5% of the building sum insured 
payable. Lloyds said that because there were two earthquakes, separated by three months, 
Ms D had to pay two excesses.
As each  excess amounts  to more than £14,000, understandably Ms D wasnt  happy to have 
to pay two excesses.  Ts argument is that firstly  the earthquake  was one continuous  event, 
as there  were other  tremors  and aftershocks between  the two dates. Secondly it believes the 
endorsement in the policy applying the excess isnt clear and that it should  be construed  in 
Ms Ds favour to apply  to all damage  for the event in a policy year.  If two excesses are found 
to apply, it argues  that the further  damage caused by the second earthquake didnt amount 
to anything like the cost of the excess- all stabilisation works were  required anyway.
T said further that the claims were poorly  handled  and that Lloyds delayed in dealing with it. 
It says this had financial  consequences for Ms D but accepts that those hadnt been  put to 
Lloyds at the time of its final response  letter. In response to the complaint Lloyd's accepted  
that there  had been shortcomings in its handling of the claims and paid Ms D £1,000.  It said 
it was reasonable  to charge two excesses, as there were clearly  two earthquake events and 
two claims. It was also satisfied that damage  from the second earthquake exceeded the 
excess.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator thought  it reasonable for Lloyds to apply two 
excesses, that the damage from the second  earthquake was likely to have cost more than 
the excess. He said that the compensation awarded was reasonable. He proposed  that 
Lloyds pay Ts fees for the work it carried out including researching and obtaining 
information about government procedures.
Lloyds agreed  to the suggested payment. T disagreed  with the adjudicators  assessment.
The matter  has been passed to me consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the excess
T argues  that Ms D shouldnt, on a fair and reasonable interpretation of the policy,  be 
charged two excesses. Firstly it says there werent two earthquakes, but one continuous 
movement resulting in the big tremors of August and October. The seismological evidence 
doesnt in my view support that. Although the earthquakes were along the same fault line, it 
Ref: DRN20510852does appear that there were three events that were described as earthquakes rather than 
aftershocks or tremors following on from the first earthquake. These were  at the end of 
August 2016,  and two towards  the end of October 2016, two days apart. Its agreed that the 
first and third earthquake caused  damage  to Ms Ds property.  As with all policies of this 
nature earthquake is an event for which  the policy provides cover. I think the evidence 
shows that there were  two events which separately  caused damage, so on the face of it two 
excesses apply.
T argues  further that the policy endorsement  regarding the excess  applicable to earthquake 
isnt clear. It refers to any damage so a policyholder could reasonably construe that to be 
any damage in the policy  year. The endorsement  on the policy  schedule setting out the 
excess says: 
In respect  of any damage caused by earthquake or volcanic eruption the excess  applicable 
is 2 5% of the sum insured for buildings and contents.
In the policy  earthquake is covered  as a specific event along with all the normal events 
covered under buildings  (fire, storm, flood etc). Next to the earthquake cover it sets out what  
is not covered  and this includes the first 2.5% of the buildings  sum insured for properties 
located in [the country where Ms Ds property is located].
And excess is generally defined as The amount  of any claim that you will have to pay.
T argues  that as the endorsement above was highlighted on the policy schedule its 
reasonable for Ms D to rely on that. So any damage can be construed  as any damage in 
the policy year. I dont  agree, the endorsement  cant be divorced from the normal  policy  
terms. And I think  its reasonable to construe any damage as relating to a claim, not to any 
damage in the policy year.
Finally in relation  to the excess,  T points out that it is vastly more  than that for fire or flood 
damage (which is £500).  While it says its debatable  that the risk of earthquake is 28 times  
higher than that of fire, it accepts that Ms D bought  the policy and accepted the excess  so it 
doesnt seek to argue that point. But it does say, from the point of view of risk, the risk of 
continuing damage would have been costed,
I cant say what the thinking  was in having  an excess  that high, although I do know the 
country in question does suffer from earthquakes. But I think  all policies will be costed on the 
cost per event and the risk of that event reoccurring. So if there  are two earthquake events 
and they both cause damage  over and above the excess, it would  in my view be reasonable 
to charge two excesses.
cost of each claim
It is further argued that the cost of repairing the damage caused by the second earthquake 
came to nothing like the cost of the excess charged. And I accept that, as in any claim, if the 
cost of the damage is less than the excess,  it wouldnt  be appropriate to charge the excess, 
nor indeed for the second claim to be paid at all.
Here the distinction  between  the damage  caused by the two earthquakes becomes  difficult. 
In so far as work was required for the first claim,  notwithstanding that the same areas may 
have been damaged again, it might not follow that the damage after the second earthquake 
was very much  more.  No work had been carried out between  the two earthquakes.
Ref: DRN20510853I understand that it can be interpreted that the second lot of damage was minimal. But there 
are specific  areas of damage highlighted that related to the second claim. Further external 
cracks were identified in four areas on the ground floor and 50% of the cracks after the 
August earthquake were extended and widened after the October  earthquake. Internally new 
cracking was identified to at least three  areas along  with the collapse of a brick and mortar  
sink unit. Although T says the unit would have had to be removed anyway.
The damage after the August earthquake hadnt  been costed out before the October one. 
But figures set out in the report from Lloyds loss adjuster in December 2016 sets out that 
the cost for each  event was significantly above  the excess.
T says its for Lloyds  to prove  that the cost for the second claim was above the excess.  I 
dont agree with that  Lloyds has been able to show, on the face of it that the cost of 
repairs after the second event exceeded  the excess. Its for Ms D to show otherwise. And I 
appreciate that neither party would be able to give a definitive answer. But I think  its likely 
that the second earthquake,  which was more serious than the first, caused more  damage to 
repair above the cost of the excess.
So I think Lloyds acted  reasonably in applying  two excesses.
delays
I think its clear  that Lloyds did delay in dealing  with the claim. But earthquake damage  is 
likely to take a long time to repair, not least because  local regulations  require the area to be 
settled before repairs can be undertaken. But it acknowledged that delays were caused  due 
to the original loss adjuster being  absent through illness.
It also appears that Lloyds suffered from a lack of local representation which caused 
difficulties to Ms D. And it had to rely on T to explain how government  assistance might have 
helped.
I think the compensation awarded, of £1,000 was reasonable. I understand that T alleges 
that Ms D was caused more expense but as those costs hadnt  been put to Lloyds at the 
time of its final response, I cant look at them.
Ts costs
Ms D appointed T from her own choice, she said herself that shed never had to make a 
claim before, and at the time of Ts appointment she hadnt had any issues  with Lloyds
Nevertheless it appears that Lloyds did ask T specifically about government reinstatement 
procedures, in particular  as to whether any of the repair costs would be paid by the 
government of the country where Ms Ds property was. I dont think  it would have expected a 
policyholder to do the research and answer  its queries in that respect. So I think  its 
appropriate for Lloyds to pay Ts costs in so far as they relate to the work it carried  out 
including researching and obtaining  the information  obtained about  government procedures. 
T should  provide a statement to Lloyds of those specific costs. If Ms D has paid costs  to T 
Lloyds should  pay interest* on the amount it pays at the rate of 8% simple per year.
Ref: DRN20510854my final decision 
I uphold the complaint in part and require Society  of Lloyds to pay Ms D the costs  of T 
relating to its research  and replies to its enquiries  concerning government  procedures for 
compensation for earthquake damage. If Ms D has paid costs to T, it should  add interest* to 
that payment  at 8% simple from the date Ms D paid it until the date it pays.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*If Society  of Lloyds considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms D how much its taken off. It should  also give Ms D a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN2051085