K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2001. Mr M says Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr M says that he was given the impression that he had to take PPI in order  to get his credit 
card. But I think BoI made  it clear  that Mr M didnt  have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this as it was so 
long ago.
I cant know what was said to Mr M at the time so I have to base my decision on the 
information I do have.  BoI has provided a copy of Mr Ms credit card application. This shows 
that PPI was presented as an optional product, and Mr M has two equally prominent choices 
for PPI  to take it or decline it. Nowhere on the application does it suggest that an 
application would be looked on more favourably  by taking the PPI. 
BoI didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr M got the information  he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information BoI gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But as I think he chose to take out the PPI - it looks  like he wanted this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful  for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
This means  BoI doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But BoI will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
BoI got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mr M about  that. Because BoI didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoI has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - but these points dont change  my decision,  
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN26961992BoI has to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  BoI should also pay back to Mr M any extra interest he paid because  of 
that.
BoI should  re-work  the credit card account  and pay back to Mr M the difference  between  
what Mr M owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt  
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. BoI should also pay Mr M 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019. 
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2696199