K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about the terms of settlement he was offered by esure Insurance Limited 
after a claim he made  on his home insurance policy following a burglary at his home.
background
Mr Js home  was burgled in February 2019.  Burglars forced their way into the property, 
damaging a door and windows. Mr J also lost items of family jewellery.  He made a claim 
under his home insurance policy with esure.
Repairs to property
A contractor, M, was appointed by esure to inspect  the damage  and decide what  needed 
doing to put things right. Mr J was unhappy  that M was only proposing repairs to his door 
and window, rather than replacement, which is what he wanted. He said the damage was 
not fully repairable. And, as the proposed repairs wouldnt  return  the property to its pre-loss  
condition, he felt they werent  appropriate.
Mr J complained and, in April, esure sent their final response letter. They  said M was a 
leading repair specialist  whose  repairs came  with a guarantee  to return  the property to a pre-
loss condition. So, they didnt agree replacement was necessary. But they offered to review 
any report recommending  replacement and consider matters again.
They wrote again  in June after Mr J had produced quotes from two contractors, T and A, 
which both recommended replacement rather than repair. esure said theyd  reviewed this 
material but their position remained unchanged. Because T and A indicated they didnt want 
to carry out the repairs because  of the age of the items, or that repairs  wouldnt  be cost 
effective. But esure  said T and A werent repair specialists.  While M was a specialist and 
could carry out the necessary repairs and offer a guarantee.
Mr J was told by esure that Ms repairs would provide the assurance  Mr J needed. And if 
they were unsuccessful,  then M would arrange  replacement. As an alternative,  esure offered 
to contribute the cost to them of the repairs carried out by M towards what  Mr J would have 
to pay by arranging  replacement through his own suppliers.
Replacement of jewellery
esure used  their intermediary jewellery  specialist, who valued the stolen items at 
£11,207.76. They said that the items could easily be bought in high street shops so they 
offered to pay the claim as vouchers which Mr J could use to replace the items in these 
stores. Alternatively,  they said they could  make replacements using their own jewellery 
service. Mr J didnt  dispute the valuation but disagreed with the proposed  means of 
settlement. He said many of the stolen items were of a sentimental nature or had been 
purchased abroad . He says that the cash settlement he was offered  is several  thousand 
pounds less than the full retail value of the jewellery, which  he thinks  is unfair. Mr J wants  
the full value of the jewellery, together with compensation for the stress caused.
Mr J complained to esure and they sent their final response letter  in April 2019. They 
explained their jewellery  specialists  role and how replacement was offered when they were 
satisfied they could produce a replacement of equal design and monetary value. But as 
some of the jewellery  was of a sentimental  nature or difficult  to source,  they didnt feel they 
Ref: DRN23785342could provide an equivalent  in those cases.  So, theyd made  no attempt to replace some  of 
the items  stolen. And esure said that if a customer didnt agree a replacement, they could 
alternatively make an appropriate cash payment. So, they considered  the settlement theyd 
offered was fair.
Mr J complained to us in May and, in September,  our investigator sent out his view. In 
respect of the repair element of the claim, he said he didnt think this aspect of the complaint 
should be upheld.  This was because  the policy wording meant esure could choose how to 
settle the claim. And their repair  strategy would put Mr J back into his position prior to the 
damage by carrying  out an effective  and lasting repair. If the repairs were unsuccessful, 
replacement would be carried  out instead.  The investigator felt this was a reasonable course  
of action for esure  and a fair outcome for Mr J.
In respect of the jewellery element of the claim,  the investigator said he didnt think this 
should be upheld  either. He explained esures jewellery specialist  replacement  policy  and 
the difficulties  with items of sentimental value  and / or being unavailable from the high street.  
He said he thought esure had dealt with the claim fairly, so didnt ask them to provide any 
further settlement  options.
Mr J disagreed. He queried whether esure could ensure work of acceptable quality. And 
objected that the discounted basis of the cash offer for the jewellery reduced the payment 
value of the claim.
In October, our investigator wrote  a second view.  He said hed considered the points raised 
by Mr J but stood by his original conclusion, which he thought  was a fair outcome.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint, as I think what esure have offered to settle the claim is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Repairs to property
Ive looked at the photos and video Mr J provided  of his property. Ive also read the quotes 
from Mr Js contractors, A and T. And Ive read Ms surveyors report  and esures validation 
report. Ive also looked  at Mr Js policy wording which reads:
If Your Buildings suffer loss or damage as a result  of any of the other circumstances 
listed in Your policy booklet, We can choose to:
 pay the cost of work  carried out to rebuild,  replace or repair  Your Buildings
I think its clear  that this means  esure,  not Mr J, can choose how to settle the claim. They do 
this, in part, by considering the cost to them  of the options available; although wed expect 
the settlement  to do what its supposed to, ie. to put Mr J back in the position he was in prior 
to the damage  or loss. esure has told us that M, their contractors, are repair specialists.  
They can complete successful repairs and provide a guarantee on their work. And if, after 
the work  has been done and its unsuccessful,  then replacement will be carried  out instead.  
As a further alternative, esure offered to contribute their cash  payment towards Mr J, 
arranging replacement works through suppliers of his own. I think this is a reasonable 
Ref: DRN23785343approach and in line with esures obligations  under the policy to treat Mr J fairly as their 
customer. So I wont be asking esure  to do anything  further here.
Mr J did also point out that that esures  contractor hadnt produced  a full schedule of repairs  
for the works  they proposed. And our investigator  asked  esure  to provide such a schedule of 
repairs for the windows  and doors  prior to them being carried  out, in the event that Mr J 
agreed to M doing  these repairs. But esure  said that theyd  provided  a fully costed estimate, 
and as M are the experts  in this field, they saw no benefit in doing  a scope of works in 
addition to their estimate. So they declined to do so. I think this is reasonable in the 
circumstances, as esure has offered to arrange replacement  if the repair isnt successful.
Replacement of jewellery
Mr J didnt want the replacement of his stolen items and asked for a cash settlement. But he 
didnt agree he should receive the cost of settling the claim for these items to esure. This is 
because, he says the items cant be replaced.  And he expected to receive the full retail value 
for each  item and what he was being offered was substantially  below the agreed  valuation.
Again, Ive looked at the wording of Mr Js policy. This states:
If Your Contents, Personal Possessions or Specified  Items are lost or damaged  in 
any of the circumstances explained  in the policy booklet, We can choose to:
 pay the cost of repairs
 arrange  for repairs; or
 give You an equivalent replacement.
If it is not possible to repair and an equivalent replacement is not available  We will 
pay You cash based on the full replacement cost.
However, if it is possible to make a repair and/or if an equivalent replacement is 
available but You do not agree with these settlement options, We will pay You cash  
based on the applicable  equivalent repair or replacement cost to Us.
The jewellery specialists  used by esure have said they could provide replacements  of equal 
design and monetary value for many of the stolen items through  their own service. And 
esure has said the rest can be replaced with vouchers  they will provide which can be used  at 
high street retailers.
According to the policy  terms, esure is only required to pay cash  based on the cost to them  
as insurer. esure can obtain  the vouchers it supplies at much less than their face value with 
high street retailers. And their jewellery  specialist wont charge esure the full retail 
replacement cost to make replacement items. So, this means the sum esure  is obliged  to 
pay in cash will nearly always be less than the full retail replacement cost of the jewellery  
items claimed for.
Mr J has said some of the items  were  of sentimental value and nothing esure could produce 
by way of replacement or buy from the high street could replace them. So, he said he should 
receive full retail value.  But  as Ive already explained - esure is only obliged to pay what  it 
would cost them to replace the jewellery.  And theyve said some of the items can be 
replaced in high street retailers using the vouchers  they provide and some of the items  can 
be replaced by their jewellery specialist making a suitable new item of equal  design and 
Ref: DRN23785344monetary value. I appreciate these  items  wont have the same sentimental value, but this 
isnt something the policy allows for. And  in any event  its not really possible to put a 
monetary amount on sentimental  value. And Im satisfied esure can provide suitable  
replacements and the other items  can be replaced using the vouchers esure will provide.
So, I think the settlement  options esure  provided for the jewellery Mr J has claimed for are 
fair and reasonable. And, I wont be asking  them to do anything further here either.
And because I dont think esure has done anything wrong in relation  to either the repairs to 
Mr Js windows and doors or in respect  of the stolen jewellery, I wont  be making an award 
for distress or inconvenience.
my final decision
My final decision is that, for the reasons I set out above, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Js 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2378534