K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc has delayed his request to transfer funds to 
another of his accounts, which put a house  purchase in jeopardy. 
background 
Mr S opened  an instant access account with Sainsburys. He deposited £500,000 as he was 
buying property  and needed access to his funds. On 19 November 2018 Mr S wanted to 
transfer £150,000 to another  account he holds with another provider. 
As the amount was over the £20,000 online  limit, Mr S called to make the transfer. He gave 
the member of staff the bank details but they werent  recognised and so Sainsburys needed 
a copy of a bank statement to pass its security requirements. Mr S was very unhappy with 
that as he was aboard at the time, and was going to be for a number of months.  He was told 
Sainsburys would need a copy of a statement sent by post with a covering  letter  from him 
explaining he wanted this set up as his nominated account. 
In a call the following day, Mr S was told he could send a statement but write on this he 
wanted this set up as a nominated account rather than writing  a covering letter. He was also 
made aware  that the address would need to match for both accounts. Mr S expressed his 
unhappiness with the situation  and indicated he would close his account  and pursue  the 
matter further. 
To that end he got in contact with us. We made enquiries about whether or not Sainsburys 
had considered his complaint  it indicated  it had and that the matter had been resolved.  But 
Mr S was clearly still unhappy  and as well as contacting us he escalated his complaint with 
Sainsburys. During this process Mr S obtained  a statement and sent it to Sainsburys. 
Despite being  told it had been received and would  be worked, the statement was returned to 
sender. 
Sainsburys agreed to accept an e-mail attachment of the bank statement and the nominated 
account was set up on 13 December 2018.  Mr S was told the money should go by midnight 
that night unless extra security needed to be gone  through. The money didnt go and Mr S 
contacted Sainsburys  the following day and he was asked to go through extra security  
which he did and the transfer was made. 
Sainsburys responded to Mr S escalated complaint. It agreed it hadnt provided the service 
it expected and apologised. It also said that it would usually make  an offer of compensation 
but as the matter was already with us it would discuss that with us. When sending in its file it 
offered £150 compensation.  
Our investigator concluded the amount offered didnt reflect the inconvenience  caused. So 
she asked Sainsburys to increase the compensation to £250 for the impact the delays and 
incorrect information had caused. Sainsburys agreed but Mr S didnt. He doesnt believe this 
reflects the inconvenience he was put to and thinks £2,500 is more appropriate. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I find the amount 
recommended and accepted by Sainsburys to be fair compensation in resolution of this 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN20544002I would firstly like to explain  that although I have  only summarised the background and 
arguments above, I have ready and considered everything in its entirety. That I concentrate 
on the crux of the issue isnt meant as a discourtesy but is a reflection of the quick and 
informal service  we provide. 
Mr S is clearly  unhappy with the situation  that arose. Hes particularly unhappy that he 
wasnt told to set up a nominated  account  when the account was opened. Having  listened  to 
the calls provided, this wasnt part of its process  particularly  as more than one account can 
be nominated. But this information  is contained in the terms and conditions of the account 
and so something Mr s ought  to have been aware  of. 
As explained by the investigator, we dont generally interfere with the general processes and 
procedures a business has in place, as thats a matter for its commercial judgement. Im glad 
to see it made a record of the feedback, which may result in changes in the account opening 
process. 
Sainsburys tried to upload Mr S nominated account details electronically but they werent 
accepted by the system. So it followed its process that it needed a posted copy of a bank  
statement with a covering letter. Its unfortunate that Mr S was abroad  at the time. But that 
doesnt mean a bank  should ignore the security  processes it has in place, although I would 
expect it to try and help its customer.  And I can see it did this by explaining a note could  be 
added onto the statement instead  of a covering letter, when Mr S suggested he arrange his 
bank to send a statement directly to it (this would avoid the statement needing to be sent 
abroad and then back again). And during this call Mr S was told of the need for the 
addresses to match.
After a statement  was sent Mr S called to check on progress and was told it had been 
received and was in a pile of post waiting to be worked. Sainsburys acknowledges that 
information wasnt necessarily right, as the member  of staff wouldnt have known whether it 
had been received or not. And it said feedback was provided, as I would expect it to do. 
It appears that statement was returned  to sender, but it isnt entirely clear why. Sainsburys 
has indicated the address  didnt match. But I dont know if that was the case. After escalating 
the complaint  Sainsburys  agreed to step outside  of its usual process  and accept an e-
mailed copy of a statement. And it acknowledged when sending its file, that given the 
situation Mr S was in, this could have been offered  sooner.  
I appreciate there was another delay when Mr S funds  were held for a further security 
check. I understand this caused  more  inconvenience to Mr S. But what  security  checks  are 
carried out and when are a matter for the banks own security  procedures. Given  the amount 
involved Im not surprised a further  check was required  and he was warned it might  happen. 
I do accept Mr S has been caused some distress and inconvenience as a result of this 
matter, not least because the transfer  of money  was needed towards  a property purchase.  It 
must have  been  particularly worrying  not being able to make a payment despite having the 
funds available, particularly when abroad  and not having the same level of access  to 
services that others might. 
I have considered carefully Mr S request for £2,500  of compensation, which he has based 
on 1% of the property  value. The rules  under which I operate do provide for me to make a 
monetary award for distress and inconvenience.  But such an award would  be based on the 
Ref: DRN20544003impact a business actions or inaction had, rather than the percentage of a propertys value. 
And £2,500  is quite  a substantial award  particularly for non-financial loss. Im also required  
to take account  of the law and what it says about  keeping damages for distress  and 
inconvenience in perspective  a leading authority is Lord Justice  Wards  judgment in Milner 
v Carnival plc [2010] EWCA  Civ 389:
Perhaps the most acute form of distress is that which is suffered by a parent who has lost a 
child. Here  damages  are limited by statute and the present figure  is no more  than £10,000. If 
that figure may be thought by many to be derisory, it is all part and parcel  of the same policy  
considerations dominating damages for distress. Lord Steyn  said it all in Farley  v Skinner :
I have to say that the size of the award [£10,000]  appears to be at the very top end of 
what could possibly be regarded  as appropriate damages. Like Bingham LJ in Watts  
v Morrow [1991] 1 WLR 1421, 1445H, I consider that awards in this area should be 
restrained and modest. It is important that logical and beneficial developments in this 
corner of the law should  not contribute to the creation of a society bent on litigation.
I must  now stand back and look at the judges  awardsagainst the background  of 
comparable awards for psychiatric  damage in personal injury cases, for injury to feelings in 
cases of sex and race discrimination and damages for bereavement...
Damages under these heads  are of course not entirely  comparable with damages in holiday  
cases. Physical inconvenience and discomfort is necessarily ephemeral. Disappointment,  
distress, annoyance and frustration are likewise the feelings  one experiences at the time and 
which last painfully for some time thereafter. But one is not disabled, the psyche is not injured  
and one gets on with life. Every time one thinks back, one relives the horror but the reliving of 
it is transitory. There is no medical  evidence  here to indicate any recognisable psychiatric 
injury: distress falls into a different and less serious  category and does not equate with 
bereavement.
Mr S has been put to the trouble of contacting Sainsburys on several occasions about this. 
But I do need to keep in mind that it has followed it processes and procedures and stepped  
outside of those when the need  arose. Ive also kept in mind that Sainsburys has 
acknowledged Mr S wasnt always provided  with the correct information and has provided 
feedback where  necessary. But most of the problems occurred because of the need to meet 
certain security requirements  and the resulting delays, although some of these can be 
attributed to Sainsburys.   In all the circumstances  and realising Mr S doesnt agree, I find 
£250 fair and reasonable for the impact of what went wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint and require Sainsburys Bank  Plc to pay Mr S 
£250 compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20544004
Ref: DRN2054400