K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) unfairly increased her premium for her 
Landlords policy and took that premium without  her authority and without notifying her. 
background
Mrs B took out a Landlords policy with UKI in April 2016. She paid a premium of £231 for 
that year. In 2017 the premium went up to £1,497. Because the policy was on auto renewal,  
the premium was taken  through her debit card. The premium for 2018-19,  paid in April 2018, 
was £1,597. Mrs B didnt  notice how much the premiums  had risen  by until October  2018.  
She contacted UKI who explained that the reason for the increase was its reassessment of 
the flood risk to her property. It advised  her that she had selected auto renewal and 
continuous payment.  It further said the documents were sent by email and by post to the risk 
address (which was also the correspondence  address). Mrs B didnt receive the emails  
because she had moved abroad  and had changed  her email address. She nevertheless  said 
that she had received no letters through  the post.
UKI said it was satisfied that Mrs B had been  notified of the new premiums by post and 
email. Mrs B took out a policy with a different  insurer in April 2019,  at a price  of £304.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator said that UKI could have done more  to notify Mrs B 
of such a large increase. But he didnt think that she would  have received information 
through the post, given  that she had moved  abroad. So even if UKI had done more to notify  
her of the new premium,  he didnt  think it would have prevented her from allowing her policy 
to auto-renew in both 2017  and 2018.
Mrs B says that had documents been  sent by post she certainly would  have received them, 
as she had had many communications at that address.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that in light of the big increase in the premium UKI 
should have made more  effort to get in touch with Mrs B to advise her, including 
communicating by post. I noted that UKI had shown me a screen shot which it said was 
evidence that the documents had been  sent by post but I wasnt satisfied  that it did 
demonstrate this.
In response UKI now say that it had no authority from Mrs B to contact her by post so it 
couldnt send  renewal documents by post.  It insisted though that it had sent debit card 
receipts by post,  referring back to the screenshot. It also said Mrs B had accessed  her policy  
online in April 2017.
Mrs B had no further comments to make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
In my provisional decision I said:
Ref: DRN25577742auto renewal
Mrs B says she didnt consent to the excessive premium being taken from her account, and 
believes that it was taken without her authority.  From the documents Ive seen, Im satisfied 
that the policy was on auto-renewal  and that Mrs B consented to the annual premium  being 
taken through  her debit card. She says that her mind  was at peace  thinking her property was 
insured, and I note that she took no steps at the first or second renewal dates to get in touch 
with UKI. So I think she was aware that her policy  would be auto-renewing.
amount of premium
UKI has explained to Mrs B and to us why the premium went up, this was largely  due to its 
reassessment of the flood  risk. Insurers are generally free to charge premiums according  to 
their own assessment of the risk. And though I note there was a huge  increase, of nearly 
600%, UKI has shown  us that this increase was applied across the board and that it affected 
all customers in a similar situation to Mrs B. While  I note that Mrs B has now taken out a 
policy for an annual  premium of £304,  this is with a different insurer who may have assessed 
the risk differently.
notification
UKI sent notification of the increase though its standard auto-renewal  procedure.  Im 
satisfied that the documents were  sent by email. Mrs B had changed email address since 
taking out the policy  but hadnt notified UKI of this change. I cant therefore hold UKI 
responsible for the fact that its email was sent to a redundant address. 
UKI said that the documents  were also sent by post.  And UKIs file does  show that it was 
advising its staff internally  to be aware of the large  increase in premiums at risk of flooding 
under its reassessment.  Given that, I think that such a huge increase should have been 
notified by post as well as email.  However,  Im not satisfied from the evidence  UKI has 
shown us, that any documents were sent by post
Mrs B has said that if the documents  were sent by post to the risk address, she would have 
received them even though shed moved abroad.  I think it likely that she would have made 
arrangements with her tenants so that she would have eventually received post sent to the 
risk address.  But I think it unlikely that she would have received this promptly. As a result, I 
doubt that Mrs B would have become aware  of the renewal premium  in time to have  
prevented auto-renewal of the policy in 2017.  I note that she didnt check  her account  in 
respect of the premiums  until some eighteen months  after the first renewal. And she then 
opted to continue with the insurance  until the next renewal in April 2019.
So I think if UKI had sent the renewal documents by post, its likely that Mrs B would still 
have renewed  the policy  in April 2017 and kept it up until the time of the second renewal in 
April 2018 but some time before  then would have become  aware of the much  higher 
premium she was being charged. At the 2018 renewal, its therefore likely  that she would 
have bought a policy elsewhere.  I propose therefore to require UKI to refund the difference 
in the premium she paid for her new policy in 2019, that is £304 and the price she paid at 
renewal in April 2018 that is £1,597. It should  add simple interest at 8% per year from the 
date she paid the renewal premium  until the date it repays her.
UKIs response to this, that it didnt have Mrs Bs authority to send documents  by post,  
contradicts what it told Mrs B in response  to her complaint. To be clear it said In regards to 
Ref: DRN25577743authorisation you selected auto renewal on the basis you would read your documents  to 
ensure the cover and premium would meet your needs.If the documents  did not reach 
you; please take this up with the postal service and I will be happy to provide you with 
evidence the documents  have been sent.  Please note we did send information  through email 
too
It was that response  that prompted  me to ask for the evidence  from UKI that the documents  
had been sent by post. Its response was to send the screen  shot I have referred to which, 
again to be clear, doesnt persuade me that any documents  were  sent by post.  Its merely  a 
list which sets out Debit or credit card receipt  to policyholder  and three dates, of first 
payment and the first and second  renewal dates. It isnt evidence, in my view,  that such 
documents were  sent by post.  I havent seen the copy documents  it says were sent.
UKI also says Mrs B accessed her policy online in April 2017. I dont know  what she would 
have actually seen.  But it doesnt seem likely to me that she would have kept quiet about the 
increase in premium  for a year and a half.
The evidence provided by UKI in this case is unsatisfactory and contradictory,  so I cant  say 
whether it sent,  attempted to send, or didnt send the renewal documents by post. The best I 
can say is that UKI hasnt  shown to my satisfaction that, for a huge  increase in the cost of its 
premium it did anything  except send the auto renewal  documents by email.  This was despite 
its internal memos/emails  to staff warning them of the increase. The risk address  is listed  as 
the contact address and UKI does  say it would send certain documents by post.
Having regard to my findings in this particular case,  Im not persuaded to alter my provisional 
decision. My provisional findings are now therefore  final.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and to require U K Insurance Limited to refund to Mrs B the 
difference between  £304  and the premium she paid for the 2018  renewal together with 
simple interest* at 8% a year from the date she paid the premium  until the date it repays her.
.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires U K Insurance Limited to take tax off any interest it 
pays to Mrs B. Should Mrs B request  it, UKI should give Mrs B a certificate showing how 
much tax it has taken off so she can reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2557774