K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains about the delays  she encountered beyond her normal  retirement age, as a 
result of Friends Life (now part of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited) encountering difficulties 
when settling her pension benefits.
This complaint is brought by Mr M on Mrs Ms behalf. 
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 April 2020. A copy of that is attached  
and forms part of this final decision. In summary,  I reached the following  conclusions:
Friends Lifes £500 offer for the distress  it caused Mrs M was fair and reasonable and 
I intended to award this to Mrs M as part of the compensation.
Mrs Ms principal  loss was from missing out on three months income and a three-
month delay in getting her tax-free  cash sum.
I set out how the three months  missing net income should be calculated  and interest  
applied.
The funds from which the tax-free  cash was taken gained  in value by an estimated 
0.5% over these three  months.  I was prepared to consider a further award  if Mrs M 
could demonstrate she would have invested this sum at a higher return.
Aviva responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision.
Mr M, on behalf  of his wife, disagreed with the decision. In summary they said:
-I wasnt right to conclude that Mr C had become Friends  Lifes  contact for the 
ongoing administration of the scheme. Friends Life was obliged  to correspond  with 
the trustees  only, bearing in mind security  of information, privacy etc.
-Change of trustee forms were signed and forwarded to Friends Life in 2013, which 
they then failed to process and then they were more than likely lost.
-If there  had been no change  of trustees, why did it take Friends  Life until August 
2015 to realise  this and until December 2015  to issue the paperwork?
-Mrs M had always wanted to take her pension on her 65th birthday and monthly  
pension payments to Friends  Life continued  because it didnt amend the direct debit.
-There was considerable doubt that retirement  packs were sent out in October and 
December 2014, as Mr M was still working at the main  employers office and would 
view the post. This was the same  as the registered  address of his own company.
-The 2015 statements of benefits  for members of the scheme were delayed  from 
January to July 2015 but didnt  include  Mrs Ms. It had to be chased and was 
eventually received in mid-September 2015,  with the transfer value illustration a 
week later.
-Mrs M invested  £10,000 of her tax-free cash sum into premium bonds.
-I should give further consideration to increasing the compensation for missing income 
payments from 3 to 9 months.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  the further points Mr M 
has now made, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN23808612Given that the sponsoring employer is still connected with the scheme (and most relevantly 
for the day to day administration  of the scheme,  was paying the premiums), I dont think  
Friends Lifes decision to send all correspondence there demonstrates it considered Mr C 
was the trustee. As I explained in my provisional  decision, I think thats an assumption  Mr M 
made. It was also open to the employer to ask for correspondence not related to the 
collection of premiums to go elsewhere, but there  may have been  little point if Mr M also did 
some ongoing  work from that address, as hes explained.
Friends Life evidently also didnt  think there  had been a change  of trustee form completed. 
This may have stemmed for an oversight when Mr and Mrs M indicated  their wish to step 
down, but for the reasons I explained  in my provisional decision, there was still an onus on 
them to follow this matter  up as they hadnt specified  who should take over.  I accept its 
possible that they filled the form and Friends Life lost it. But given  that Mr (and potentially 
Mrs) C would  also have  had to sign, and no-one  has retained a copy,  on balance Im not 
satisfied thats  the most likely explanation.  
I understand that Mr M believes he would have seen post sent to the main employers 
address in October and December 2014. But as one of these documents  has survived and is 
correctly addressed, I can only fairly say that its likely  to have been received  and I have no 
reason to doubt that the other document wasnt sent and likely  received either.  There  may of 
course have been  problems  with the post for which I cannot  hold Friends  Life (Aviva)  
responsible.
Its not clear if Mr M is saying that the address Friends Life held for his own company was 
incorrect, if his registered address  was the same  as the main employers address. When 
Friends Life sent letters there it seems to have been as a result of Mr M following up why he 
hadnt received  items sent to the first address. Friends  Life seems  to have been acting in 
good faith by writing  to an address it had corresponded with Mr M at previously.
I understand that the renewal statements for the scheme were delayed  and then Mrs Ms 
was omitted. That may even have been because  Friends  Life was already in the phase of 
generating retirement quotes. I note it did provide a renewal statement when chased, but its 
unclear to me what more information would  have been gained by waiting for that statement  
rather than acting on the quote which was specific to her benefits. Mr M has explained his 
wife wanted to retire on her 65th birthday, so I think it would be reasonable to expect her to 
proceed on the basis of the retirement quote  which its likely was received  much earlier.
Friends Life only later realised that Mr and Mrs M werent acting as trustees in August  2015, 
because thats  when it received the retirement  pack (signed by Mr C as trustee)  via Canada 
Life. The delays  until December 2015 were,  in the main, caused by the unfortunate timing of 
Mr and Mrs M wanting to belatedly change the trustees over before settling Mrs Ms benefits 
 as I explained in the provisional decision.
So whilst Ive carefully considered Mr Ms request for the period of delay to be increased, Im 
not persuaded there is a fair and reasonable basis here for me to do so. Ive noted that 
Mrs M invested  some of her tax-free  cash into premium bonds. The prizes for those are 
currently based on a notional interest rate of 1.5%.  But even when the base rate was slightly 
higher in 2015/16, I think it unlikely premium bonds were  returning on average  more than 2% 
per year. I said in my provisional decision that the funds from which the tax-free cash  was 
taken gained an estimated 0.5% over the three  months of delay. So I dont consider any 
additional award for loss of investment on the tax-free cash is warranted.
Ref: DRN23808613my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Instead of paying Mrs Ms benefits  with an effective date of 26 
April 2016, I think but for Friends  Lifes delays, Canada Life ought to have been able to start 
them with an effective  date of about three months earlier (around 26 January 2016).
I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Mrs M the net equivalent of three missing 
annuity payments  of £134.81 gross, assuming these were due on 26 January, 26 February 
and 26 March 2016. It would be appropriate to reduce these by the amount of income tax 
Mrs M would  have  paid in the 2015-16  tax year.  Unless Mrs M can demonstrate otherwise 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited may assume she would have been  a basic  rate taxpayer. 
For the sake of clarity, this not a tax charge on those payments but an adjustment  to the net-
of-tax equivalent for compensation purposes.
Interest should  be added  to these net equivalents at the rate of 8% per year simple from the 
date each payment  was due to the date of settlement. The interest component  only will 
potentially be subject  to income tax. If Friends Life considers it is obliged  to deduct tax it 
must provide a tax deduction certificate  to Mrs M.
I also require Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited  to pay Mrs M £500 in compensation for 
distress and inconvenience its delays caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23808614Provisional decision of 8 April 2020
background
Mrs M had taken out a pension policy with Friends Life as part of her former employers pension 
arrangements. She and her husband  left the service  of the main  employer to work for an 
associated employer  in January 2013 and they signed  documents in May 2013 to attach their 
new associated employer to the scheme. They  did this in their capacity as trustees of the main 
scheme.
The following  month  Mr M told Friends  Life that he and Mrs M will not be trustees of the main 
employers scheme. Friends  Life responded  to say that it had passed this information on to its 
documentation team but it appears, from what Friends  Life has been able to provide  at least,  that 
this request was likely lost amongst the other  issues being discussed at that time (namely,  
bringing the payment of premiums from both employers up to date). 
In respect of the premiums, Friends  Life told Mr M that it was unable  to accept these from two 
different sources. It appears  that Mr and Mrs M agreed  that a director of the main employer  (Mr 
C) would pay the premiums and they would make a standing order to him. As a result,  it appears 
Mr C became Friends Lifes contact  for the ongoing  administration  of the scheme.
I havent seen documentation that shows Mr and Mrs M had instructed who Friends Life should 
replace them  with as trustees. So there was no change of trustee effected  at that time.  But as a 
result of Friends Life writing to Mr C, Mr M says that Friends Life must have  known about this 
[change of trustees] because they had included his name in their records.
Mrs M was due to reach her selected retirement date in April 2015. Friends Life has provided  
evidence that in December 2014 it sent a retirement pack (or wake up pack) for Mrs M to Mr C 
at the main employers registered office address. The letter itself refers to an earlier wake up 
letter sent several months previously, it appears  to the same address (Friends Life can no longer  
reproduce a copy of that letter).
In January 2015, Mr M contacted Friends  Life himself to discuss  Mrs Ms retirement  options as 
they hadnt  received this correspondence. Friends  Life has a copy of a further letter  dated 7 
January 2015  setting out how Mrs M could take benefits, this time addressed to Mr M directly at 
the registered address of his associated employer   at which  correspondence had been received 
previously. However  Mr M says this letter was also not received.
Friends has a note of an email on 29 June 2015 where it was asked  to change address  details.  
Again the email cant be reproduced due to system  changes at Friends Life, but it seems as a 
result, a letter providing a new quote for Mrs M (addressed to Mr C again  at the main employers 
address) was issued on 6 July. A full set of forms for taking benefits (including forms about any 
legacy tax-free  cash entitlement) were included with this quote.
Mr and Mrs M received this quote and decided  to take an open market option to Canada Life for 
Mrs Ms annuity benefits. Canada  Life wrote to Friends  Life about a month later enclosing  the 
Friends Life forms which Mr and Mrs M had completed. These indicated on the retirement 
options form that Mrs M had left service  of the employer in January 2013. 
Mr and Mrs M asked  Mr C to sign the trustee consent section of the form in his stated capacity as 
trustee. Mr C and Mrs M also signed a separate form disclaiming the need to provide further  
information in order to calculate legacy  amounts as at 6 April 2006 (when the tax regime for 
pensions changed). That meant her tax-free  cash entitlement  was limited to 25% of the fund, 
rather than any higher amount that could  possibly  apply.
Having processed  the papers it received,  Friends Life realised there was a problem. It emailed 
Mr Cs hotmail on 20 August saying, We have been collecting premiums for this member up to 
Ref: DRN23808615now, therefore, if the member has left service in 2013 the quotation  will be incorrect.  Please 
could you confirm urgently  what date the last premium  for this member should be. 
Friends Life also realised  that Mr and Mrs M rather than Mr C were still recorded as trustees  on 
27 August and emailed Mr C again. They chased both emails on 11 September, copying  the 
main employers general office email address. Meanwhile they continued to request completion 
of some further papers  by Canada Life which it duly provided.
It appears that Mr C was unable to open Friends Lifes emails due to the encrypted format used. 
Mr M then intervened by phone, and after understanding the difficulty  he wrote  to Friends  Life on 
15 October stating  that he and Mrs M would  resign as trustees  with Mr C to act as sole trustee. 
He confirmed that Mrs M had remained in employment  with the associated employer,  so there 
wasnt an issue with the further  premiums.
Mr and Mrs M now indicated the consent of the current trustees  to Mrs M taking her benefits by 
signing the unused A-Day Tax-Free Lump Sum Protection Questionnaire, which they previously 
declined to complete in favour  of the disclaimer  mentioned above. Their signatures on this form 
didnt replace the trustee consent required on the main form to select  the retirement  quote.  
However the information on this form did enable Friends Life to calculate Mrs Ms tax-free  cash 
entitlement on 21 October at £15,082, which at 33% was considerably better than 25% of the 23 
September transfer value of about £45,354.
Friends Life had also posted a letter to Mr C, who replied by email (now from his company  email 
address) on 26 October to confirm the employment dates and stating The current trustee is 
myself as previously advised. Im sure forms have already been done for this. If we need more 
than one please can you use [Mrs C].
Friends Lifes internal  notes indicate  that a new trust deed was issued on 12 November 2015. As 
this hadnt  yet been returned, it agreed  on 24 November that Mr and Mrs M could  still sign 
Mrs Ms paperwork  in the capacity of trustees. However it then received  the completed trust deed 
on 16 December, before it had a correctly  signed set of documents for Mrs M to take benefits. So 
it reissued the retirement paperwork to Mr C by first class post the same day, asking  him and Mrs 
C to sign it as the new trustees. It updated  Mr and Mrs M by email on 23 December that it was 
still waiting for their response.
Friends Life received hard copies of all Mrs Ms completed  retirement  paperwork on 6 January 
2016, including further confirmation  from the new trustees (signed 26 December 2015). At that 
point the main scheme was due for its January 2016 annual renewal, meaning  valuations  
couldnt be produced to issue any new quotes or make payments.
Again its internal notes  read, Our off-shore team have completed the renewal but are waiting  for 
the UK to check it before  processing the retirement. As a consequence  of limited UK resource 
and priority being given to another scheme we are currently unable to provide timescales for 
completing the retirement. It provided  a similar explanation in writing. 
Friends Life suggests that the renewal information  for 1 January  2016 was not received from the 
new trustees until 3 March 2016. Mrs Ms tax-free  cash and annuity werent set up until 24 April 
2016, based  on a retirement fund of around £45,857. 
Unhappy with the delays, Mrs M complained to Friends Life who didnt  uphold the complaint, so 
she referred it to our service. Mr M considered that there were two specific issues:
The retirement  pack shouldve  been sent before Mrs Ms 65th birthday.
Friends Life received the retirement option forms in September 2015 and didnt provide  
Mrs M with a tax-free lump sum or start her income  until April 2016.
Ref: DRN23808616After reviewing the file, Friends Life agreed  it had been slow in settling  Mrs Ms benefits. It said 
although we would have  expected information  regarding the employment status of the policy 
holder (are they still employed or not and should we be collecting premiums)  to be given to us by 
the employer, we do not seem from the file to have been proactive in chasing  this up. In addition, 
we seem to have been slow in processing  the [annual]  review, adding  to the delay  in settling the 
benefits.
Friends Life offered  £500 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused, however it 
appears it considered  the employer/trustee issues were partly responsible for the delay. So it 
didnt provide a calculation  of financial losses  over the time Mrs M was waiting to receive  her 
benefits.
Mr M sent us the information summarised above from 2013, which he considered amounted to 
an instruction to change  the trustees. But Friends Life said it had made  a fair offer given that 
between August 2015 and January 2016 it had to approach Canada Life for details  regarding  the 
receiving arrangement (which they did not initially provide). And it had to seek confirmation from 
the trustees/employer as to the dates of employment for Mrs M.
The adjudicator issued  his formal view on 7 April 2017. In summary, he said:
-It was reasonable to conclude that Friends  Life had sent retirement  packs for Mrs M in 
good time before her normal retirement date, even if for some reason  she hadnt received  
these.
-Friends Life should have  begun the process to pay out Mrs Ms benefits in September 
2015 because  the conflict with Mrs Ms leaving service date could  have been easily 
resolved. Had it checked, it wouldve  known from the forms completed  in 2013 that Mrs M 
had transferred to an associated employer in January 2013.
-Five to six weeks from 8 September 2015  would have been a reasonable time to 
process payment  of Mrs Ms pension.
-Friends Life should calculate if Mrs M has suffered any loss on the assumption the 
pension had gone  into payment on 13 October 2015  and additionally pay the £500  
compensation it had offered for the upset caused.
Friends Life accepted the adjudicators view but Mr M didnt. In summary, he said:
He initially had to phone Friends  Life in January  2015 and Mr C followed  this up with 
emails on 24 March  and 25 May before  it took action in respect of Mrs Ms quote.
The emails (notably also to Mr Cs hotmail address) are about a delay in completing the 
2015 scheme renewal  culminating  in a message  from Friends  Life on 1 June  2015  that 
I am afraid that there  has been a delay in completing the annual renewal  as a result of a 
systems problemI have today chased our systems experts  to ensure  the records for 
this scheme are sorted as soon as possible.  Once  this is done I will ask our processing 
team to work on the renewal as a matter of priority.
After this reply Mr M says nothing happened until he phoned on 29 June which resulted 
in the quote and forms being sent on 6 July.
Friends Life couldnt issue the retirement pack until theyd  issued  the annual review 
package. This should  have been  a relatively  easy review, being a scheme  with only four 
active members.
Its also inconsistent with Friends Lifes  later position (in 2016) that it was able to issue a 
retirement quote on 7 January 2015 (during  the 2015 annual review).
Following this it still took until September 2015 to issue Mrs Ms statement of fund value.  
A loss calculation should be carried out from Mrs Ms 65th birthday in April 2015 onwards,  
and not October  2015.
As agreement  couldnt  be reached, the complaint  was referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. The ombudsman  who was previously considering  this complaint  has moved to a 
Ref: DRN23808617different role in the ombudsman  service and it has now been passed to me. Im sorry to both 
parties for the impact this has had in terms of a further delay in this decision being issued.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.  
The events in this case straddle the period Friends Life was being acquired by Aviva and its 
evident that Friends Life has been hampered by difficulties in obtaining information from legacy  
computer systems. The information it has been able to provide to this service has emerged in 
piecemeal fashion and has taken me some time to go through, together with Mr and Mrs Ms 
evidence. Im grateful  to both parties for their patience whilst Ive been doing this.
Im now satisfied that we have  as complete a record  as we will be able to obtain of the events  
from early  2015 onwards which Mr and Mrs M consider caused a delay  in Mrs M being able to 
access her pension. Ive set out the key evidence  from both parties  above. Mr M has also 
provided his own timeline of phone  calls made to Friends Life, which Ill refer to where necessary 
in my findings which follow.
Crucially the correspondence in this case was issued to the trustees, using the main employers 
correspondence address, as this is a trust-based scheme.  Whilst I am able to consider Mrs Ms 
complaint on the basis that a contract of insurance  was taken out for her benefit through Friends 
Life, I cannot ignore the wider context in that the policy was taken out by the trustees of her 
pension scheme who were the owners  of the policy.  Im sorry if Mr and Mrs M were expecting 
direct contact at their personal address,  but this is not how a scheme of this nature is designed to 
operate.
Did Mrs M receive  the retirement packs?
From what  I can see, the process to send retirement packs  for Mrs Ms annuity options 
functioned as intended  in October and December 2014, in accordance with the Association  of 
British Insurers  (ABI) recommended  timescales. Friends Life has retained a copy of the 
December 2014 letter, and this was a standard mailing  which refers back to the October 2014 
initial wake up letter.  So I have no reason to doubt that both these letters were sent. 
Whilst it appears they went to Mr C at the main employers office,  the one copy we have  is 
correctly addressed and I think its reasonable to expect  that these would be passed on to the 
member concerned. I cant see that Friends Life would be at fault if this didnt happen for 
whatever reason.
Its unusual  for a third mailing  (dated 7 January 2015) to be issued,  but this coincides with Mr Ms 
note of phoning Friends  Life to chase for Mrs Ms annuity options. The new mailing was now 
issued for his attention at his registered company address (which it seems  Friends Life could 
accommodate as he was one of the associated  employers). Again this letter  was correctly 
addressed, and I note Mr M previously received  letters from Friends Life at this address in 2013. 
So I cant  reasonably hold Friends Life responsible for its non-receipt.  
I dont  accept Mr Ms point that it was impossible  to generate the value  in this quote. A value,  
which Im satisfied was provided contemporaneously, is shown on the document which I accept 
as genuine. It seems that Friends Life was late starting the 2015 review. But Im not convinced it 
wouldnt be possible to generate a quote for a retirement pack,  as this was an estimate  and not 
the finalised value on which Mrs Ms benefits would be based.
Mr M says that Friends Life was unresponsive  during the next six months.  Theres evidence of an 
admission from Friends  Life about a systems problem  in June 2015. In 2016, Friends  Life wasnt 
able to conclude Mrs M taking her benefits until the annual review was finalised.  However Im 
Ref: DRN23808618insufficiently persuaded that Mr M made Friends  Life aware  that he hadnt  received the 7 January  
2015 retirement quote. I think its a matter of speculation  that Friends Life wouldnt have  been 
able to do anything to help, if he had done so.
Between January and June 2015, Mr Ms records show that Mr C only contacted Friends Life 
twice by email, two months apart. The emails  were about the scheme  renewal. They didnt  
specifically reference that Mrs M was looking to take her benefits,  or that she didnt have  the 
necessary information to explore her options. On balance Friends  Life would have been entitled 
to think Mrs M had received at least one of the quotes but, as was her right, had decided not to 
take benefits exactly on her 65th birthday. My understanding (from Mr Ms October 2015 letter)  is 
that she continued paying  premiums to the scheme beyond her 65th birthday  in any case  until 
July 2015.  Thats not inconsistent with deferring  retirement.
Both parties  agree there was a discussion  on 29 June 2015  Friends Lifes  notes do record that 
on this occasion  Mr M explained his wife had reached  65 that April and hadnt received  anything 
in connection with her pension. They show  that the call handler explained information had 
previously been sent to the trustees, and he would arrange for it to be re-sent.  This request 
appears to have been turned around  within a reasonable time, because the valuation  and further 
forms Mr M did receive were issued on 6 July.
Although this corresponds to when system problems had likely  been resolved,  this seems to be 
more of a coincidence with the timing of Mr Ms enquiry than anything else. In my view Friends 
Life had issued enough  information  in October  2014, December 2014 and January  2015 for 
Mrs M to look into open  market option quotes,  and if Canada Life was the desired  insurer I think  
the wheels could  have been set in motion using the open market option form provided  with the 
January 2015  quote. 
I then wouldnt expect  the outstanding scheme renewal  to then have hampered Friends Life 
being able to issue  any further forms required  we know further forms (for example about 
Mrs Ms legacy  entitlements) were needed.  But Friends Life wasnt challenged to do this, as 
Mr M doesnt seem to have  raised the issue of his wife needing to take her benefits until 29 June 
2015. Weve now reached 6 July 2015, and I dont think there  is yet a delay for which Friends 
Life could  reasonably be held responsible.
Errors in the paperwork
Friends Life next reacted to the open market  option request  it received  via Canada Life which 
contained a mis-statement  in terms of the date Mrs M had left service. I dont take the same view 
as the adjudicator that Friends  Life should  immediately have been aware this was a mistake. Its 
not reasonable in my view to expect staff in the processing centre  to spot that the deeds from 
2013, establishing  an associated employer, post-dated Mrs Ms date of leaving  service. And even 
someone suspecting that Mrs M had continued in service beyond 2013 couldnt  have been sure,  
without checking,  that she hadnt left service at a later date.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs M completed  the form in this way, as the employer  they were 
asked about  the leaving date for referred to earlier on in the form as the main employer. However 
I need to take into account that this was a form intended for completion  by trustees and not 
members themselves. I consider a trustee  would  be in a reasonable position to appreciate that 
there was more than one employer associated with the scheme  and so the question could be 
answered in a different  way  or at the very least to query this with Friends Life first.
Mr and Mrs M were still trustees  because they hadnt nominated anyone to replace  them in 2013. 
I appreciate Mr M told Friends  Life of their intention  to step down,  and its unclear  why this wasnt 
pursued further by Friends  Life at the time. But equally,  they had a responsibility as trustees  just 
as the scheme administrator had its own responsibility. I dont  think they could reasonably have  
assumed that a change  of trustee had taken place when they hadnt signed  any paperwork  to 
Ref: DRN23808619that effect. They had in fact signed new deeds to establish the associated  employer  and 
reconfirmed their position as trustees on those deeds.  
Ive explained above that I think  Friends Life was writing to Mr C from 2013 onwards because the 
main employer was paying the premiums. This doesnt amount to an acknowledgement by 
Friends Life that Mr C was now a trustee. Friends Life would reasonably expect relevant  
correspondence sent to this administration address to be passed on to the trustees  as an 
insurers way of reaching the trustees will typically be via the employer. This extended to using  
Mr Cs hotmail when it identified  the errors with the trustees and leaving service  date. I dont  
consider this to be unreasonable, bearing in mind that email is used in the hope of generating a 
prompter response and the fact that Mr C was already  involved in the process (having  signed 
Mrs Ms retirement form).
I dont  know  precisely  why Mr C couldnt open  Friends  Lifes secure emails. An insurer is entitled 
to take steps to protect its customers data, and on the evidence we have I think  its unlikely such 
an email failed to arrive  at all. Its possible that the secure part of the content  couldnt be 
accessed without  following  further steps. I appreciate Mr and Mrs M may feel that Friends Life 
should have got in touch with them directly, but I return to the point  that with this type of scheme, 
the scheme administrator  deals  with the employer  and trustees.  
So again, I cant  reasonably hold Friends Life responsible if Mr C didnt highlight a difficulty  
reading the emails  it sent sooner.  Ive considered  whether Friends Life could have  posted a 
chaser letter to the main employer address,  but Ive taken into account that it also resent  the 
email to the employers main office address  (which was not hotmail), and that also didnt receive 
a response. It also seems  to have taken  some time for Mr M to follow up matters and establish 
what the difficulty was. So Im not persuaded  that anything Friends Life might  have  done 
differently would have significantly altered the timescale here.
With hindsight,  it might have been more straightforward for Mr and Mrs M to accept the fact that 
there hadnt been a valid change of trustee  effected in 2013  and re-sign the necessary  
paperwork as trustees (which they technically still were)  in the interests  of expediting Mrs Ms 
pension payments. I suspect matters then wouldnt have become delayed by the 2016 scheme 
review. As it was, they asked to change the trustee over to Mr (and Mrs) C straight away. It 
would reasonably take Friends Life some time to draw up the new deeds to do so and for Mr and 
Mrs C to return them. 
Delays caused by the 2016 scheme review
Where I do agree with the investigator  (and, it appears, Friends Life) is that the 2016 scheme  
review should not reasonably have  held up Mrs M taking her benefits.  Friends Life seems to 
have prioritised other schemes over Mrs Ms  and admitted doing so  when her request to take 
benefits on 6 January 2016 should have made this schemes review a high priority. The fact that 
calculations can always be done manually  doesnt suggest  to me any significant delay at all 
should have resulted.
I provisionally intend to conclude  that Friends Life ought to have  been  in a position to pay Mrs 
Ms tax-free  cash sum and send the residual  funds over to Canada Life within three weeks of 
receiving the requirements to do so on 6 January  2016. As the benefits were eventually paid with 
an effective date of 26 April 2016, this means  that there was an unnecessary three-month delay.  
Mrs M was also caused  upset as a result  of this, resulting in Mr M making seven  phone calls to 
Friends Life on her behalf during the period January to April 2016. Ive taken into account that in 
response to the investigators view, Friends Life agreed to stand by its offer of £500 
compensation for this  as well as calculating Mrs Ms financial loss over a longer period  
(October 2015) than I now think is reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN238086110Im satisfied that Friends Lifes £500  offer for the distress it caused Mrs M is fair and reasonable 
and I wouldnt have  awarded  a higher  sum.  I therefore intend to award this to Mrs M as part of 
the compensation.
For Mrs Ms financial loss, it isnt always necessary for a precise calculation to be carried out for 
this service to arrive at what we consider to be fair compensation. Ive taken into account that this 
was a with-profits type investment which would have steadily increased  in value over the period  
there was 1.1% growth from 23 September 2015 to 26 April 2016, suggesting that the policy 
would have gained about 0.5%  over the three-month delay. Also the improvement  in annuity rate 
as a result  of Mrs M gaining three months  in age would be about 0.7%, according to Canada 
Lifes rates  in published annuity  rate tables (ignoring market movements in the rate itself).
However market movements  did mean that Canada  Lifes published rates  (ignoring Mrs Ms 
increasing age) did fall by about 1.2% over that three-month period  from late January to late 
April. This effectively cancelled  out the improvement due to Mrs Ms fund value and age. Canada 
Life was quoting the following incomes on the dates shown for a £50,000  purchase price (the 
example here is a 65 year old single-life annuitant  with a 5-year guarantee):
05/01/16 £2745.48
26/01/16 £2687.88
23/02/16 £2626.20
29/03/16 £2655.36
26/04/16 £2655.36
So in my view, Mrs Ms principal  loss is from missing out on three months income and a three-
month delay  in getting her tax-free cash sum. The Canada Life personal example  suggests three 
months income would amount  to about £404 gross of tax. The missing payments would have  
been due in the 2015-16 tax year, and it would be appropriate to reduce  them  for the amount of 
income tax Mrs M would have paid.
As Mrs M was deprived of the opportunity  to spend this as regular income the rate of interest  we 
would use to reflect the loss of use of this money would be the statutory rate of 8% per year 
simple, to be applied from when each  payment was due to the date Mrs Ms complaint is settled. 
The interest component  will potentially  be subject to income tax. If Friends Life considers  it is 
obliged to deduct tax it must provide a tax deduction certificate to Mrs M.
Whilst the tax-free cash sum was delayed by the same period  of approximately  three months, the 
funds this was taken  from did gain in value as noted above. In my view the increase in value 
would be comparable to the rate of interest that would  be gained in, say, an instant access  
account. However if Mrs M provides evidence  that the tax-free cash sum was invested at a 
higher rate of growth or spent, I will be prepared to consider a further award for the loss of 
investment of this sum.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and award her £500  in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, plus the return of three months net annuity payments with interest  as set out 
above.
I will consider any additional evidence  Mrs M provides for how she used  or invested the tax-free 
cash sum.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2380861