K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund £6,430  that she lost when she fell 
victim to a scam.
background
Miss B had been  looking for a van online  when  she came across an advert on an auction 
site for a vehicle she thought met her requirements.  She contacted the seller directly, as 
requested in the advert, to confirm  shed be interested in buying  it. Miss B had previously 
successfully applied for two loans to fund the purchase of the van and had the funds 
available to her. 
The seller  of the van told Miss B he would have the van delivered to her, by a third-party 
delivery company,  as he was in the army and would shortly be deployed abroad.  The seller 
agreed to pay the delivery costs. He sent Miss B a copy of his passport to confirm his 
identity and Miss B did the same.
During her discussions about  the van, Miss B completed two online vehicle checks  and she 
has sent the results  of these checks to our service.  Both checks confirm  the van exists and 
neither raised  any concerns with Miss B at the time. Both appeared to show  the van was as 
described by the seller.  
On 14 June 2018, Miss B logged into her online banking and transferred the total cost of the 
van to the seller, amounting to £6,430. In return she was sent a consignment note from the 
third-party delivery company with the vans tracking details - a copy  of which  Miss B has 
provided to this service.  Miss B has told us that at the time,  she found all of the paperwork 
convincing and she was satisfied the seller  was legitimate. 
The day after Miss B sent the payment, she contacted the seller again  - the tracking details 
shed been sent didnt  appear to be working.  The seller  responded to Miss B and assured 
her that the van had been picked up by the delivery  company and would be delivered on the 
agreed date. Eventually, when the van didnt arrive, Miss B became suspicious and realised 
shed been scammed.  She reported  the scam to TSB as soon as she realised what had 
happened  on 18 June 2018 at around  7.30pm. This call was unfortunately cut-off before it 
was concluded  but a note was made on TSBs  internal system documenting that Miss B had 
called to report fraud on her account.  It wasnt until Miss B called  again,  on 20 June 2018, 
that TSB contacted the recipient bank  in order to see if it could retrieve  any of her funds  on 
her behalf.  But, by this time, all of the funds  had been removed. 
TSB declined to offer Miss B a refund of the amount she had lost. It said it had carried  
out Miss Bs instructions  in making the payment. The payment had been made online 
and there  had been no direct contact between Miss B and TSB and there  wasnt 
anything about  the transaction itself that would have  prompted further checks from TSB 
before it was processed. TSB also said it had followed the correct procedures  in 
contacting the beneficiary bank in attempting to recover Miss Bs funds. But as the 
money had already been removed from the recipient account, there wasnt anything  
further it could  do.
Ref: DRN24727082Unhappy with TSBs response, Miss B brought her complaint to our service and one of 
our investigators looked into things.  Our investigator  thought  Miss Bs complaint should  
be upheld. She thought  TSB shouldve contacted Miss B before  it allowed the payment 
to go through  and if it had, the scam couldve been  prevented. 
TSB didnt  accept our investigators findings and asked  for an Ombudsman  to look into 
things, so the complaint was passed  to me.
I have since contacted Miss B and informed her that I am minded to reach a different 
outcome to our investigator. Miss B did not agree. She said she felt rushed to purchase 
the vehicle by the fraudster and this affected her judgement. She also said that had 
TSB warned her about the risks surrounding scams,  she wouldnt have gone ahead 
with the payment. 
As an agreement has not yet been reached, the complaint is now with me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good  industry practice at the time.
Im really  very sorry to hear about  whats happened  to Miss B and I have a lot of 
sympathy for the situation  she has found herself in. I can understand why she feels so 
strongly that her money should  be returned  to her. But having thought very carefully 
about what shes told us happened at the time and TSBs actions, I still dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to hold TSB liable for her loss.  
So, having  considered everything, Im not going  to uphold Miss Bs complaint.  I do 
appreciate how disappointing  this will be for Miss B, but I dont think I can fairly say that 
TSB should reimburse her with the £6,430 she has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill 
explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice  and what  I consider to have been good industry  practice at the time, I 
consider TSB should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments  made  or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing  fraud and scams.
Have had systems  in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud  (among other 
Ref: DRN24727083things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years,  which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer.
In some  circumstances, irrespective  of the payment channel  used, have taken 
additional steps, or make  additional checks,  before processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions,  those  steps  may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline 
to make a payment  altogether,  to help protect  customers from the possibility of financial 
harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with Miss B when she transferred £6,430 to a fraudster and when she reported  the fraud, 
or whether it should have done  more than it did.
It is not in dispute  that Miss B authorised the transfer herself. Because  of this, TSB had an 
obligation to follow her instructions. But there  are some situations in which  it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances  surrounding  the transfer - as Ive 
explained above. I consider that as a matter of good  practice  TSB shouldve  been on the 
lookout for unusual  and out of character  transactions.
So, Ive first thought  about  whether the transfer  Miss B made could be considered out of 
character and unusual  when compared  with her usual account activity. And, having 
reviewed Miss Bs statements for the months leading up to the scam, Im satisfied a 
payment of £6,430 was unusual for Miss B and uncharacteristic for this particular account 
- there had been no comparable legitimate payments in recent  times. The transfer is also 
made to a new payee. And so, Im satisfied TSB ought fairly and reasonably,  and as a 
matter of good  practice, to have done more here. I think it ought to have made enquiries  
about the purpose of and the circumstances  leading up to the payment  before  it 
processed it. 
Because Im satisfied  TSB shouldve  called Miss B to discuss the payment before it 
processed it, Ive then had to think about  whether any further intervention  wouldve ultimately 
made a difference or not. It is impossible for me to say exactly how any conversation 
between Miss B and TSB would have unfolded. And so, I must base my decision on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened  had TSB intervened further. Ive done this by 
considering the usual  types of questions I wouldve  expected  TSB to ask Miss B had they 
contacted her - alongside what Miss B has told us about the circumstances that led to her 
making the transfer. Having done  so, I dont think further intervention  from TSB wouldve 
made a difference. Im persuaded  its most likely Miss B wouldve still gone on to make the 
payment regardless.  Ill explain  why. 
Had TSB contacted  Miss B, it seems  likely  she wouldve  explained the purpose of the 
payment was to purchase a vehicle shed  seen advertised online.   At this point, Im satisfied 
Ref: DRN24727084TSB shouldve probed further, and Ive thought about the type of questions TSB shouldve  
been asking given what Miss B had already told it. I wouldve expected TSB to ask questions 
along the following lines:
Have you seen the van in person, if not, why is this not possible?
Have you completed any independent  checks to ensure  the van exists/is legitimate?
Are you satisfied that the third-party shipping company  is legitimate?  
Have you received  the appropriate  documentation from the shipping company and 
the seller?
Ive then thought about  Miss Bs likely  responses  to these questions.  Im satisfied Miss B 
wouldve told TSB that the van would be delivered  by a reputable company that was 
designed to provide this type of service. Shes researched the company independently 
herself and had received the appropriate documentation  all of which looked legitimate. 
Miss B thought her money would be held by this third party until she had confirmed receipt of 
the van and so her money didnt appear  to be at risk or appeared to have, at least, some  
protection. Shed also have been able to tell TSB that there  appeared to be a plausible  
reason for this  the seller of the van was in the army and was soon to be deployed abroad.  
Crucially, I would have  expected TSB to direct  Miss B to carry out some independent checks  
on the vehicle  she was purchasing. A common feature  of this type of scam is that the vehicle 
either doesnt exist or has been  badly  damaged  or stolen in the past. But Miss B had already 
carried out the types of checks I would have expected TSB to direct her to and on the face of 
it, everything looked legitimate - the van was in existence, was as described  by the seller 
and hadnt been written  off or stolen.  And so I think its unlikely that any of Miss Bs answers 
wouldve put TSB on notice that Miss B was at risk of falling victim to a scam.  
TSBs role is to satisfy  itself that the payment their customer is requesting appears to be 
legitimate based  on the information they have. It is not to interrogate their customer  or carry 
out an investigation into the product being  purchased. Even if TSB had asked Miss B 
reasonable questions about  what the payment was for, I dont think the scam wouldve been 
exposed. And whilst theres no denying Miss B has been the victim  here, I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to hold TSB liable for her losses.  The fault here lies with the 
fraudsters. 
Ive thought carefully about what Miss B has said about feeling rushed by the fraudster  
which affected her judgement. Ive also taken on board what shes  said about thinking twice  
about making the payment had she been  warned about scams. But I dont think  a 
conversation with Miss B would have put TSB on notice that Miss B was about to fall victim 
to a scam.  And whilst I appreciate, she now feels like she wouldnt have  gone  on to make 
the payment,  this is now with the benefit of hindsight. At the time, the vehicle was an 
important purchase for her and she appears to have been  satisfied the seller  of the vehicle 
was legitimate  having carried out reasonable checks to satisfy  herself  that this was the 
case. There were no concerns about  the purchase  until the van failed to arrive  as agreed.
Ive then gone on to consider whether it was possible for TSB to have done any more  than it 
did when Miss B first notified it about  her concerns. Miss B first contacted TSB on 18 June 
2018, in the evening, at around 7.30pm. The receiving bank have confirmed that £131.08 
remained in the receiving account  up until the 18 June 2018 but was removed at some  point 
that day - although they havent been able to confirm at exactly  what  time. TSB have said 
they didnt contact the receiving bank until Miss B called back  on 20 June 2018.
Ref: DRN24727085Its not clear if TSB had gained enough  information  from the telephone call on the 18 June 
2018 to contact the receiving bank before the call cut-off. Its system  notes are very brief and 
it may well be the case that TSB didnt have enough  information until Miss B called back  on 
20 June 2018.  But even if I assume TSB were able to, and shouldve,  contacted  the 
receiving bank on the 18th, I still think its unlikely Miss B wouldve had any of her funds 
returned. It seems more likely to me that they were already gone. 
I say this because  Miss B contacted  TSB late in the evening of 18 June 2018. TSB would 
then have had to log Miss Bs concerns and contact the receiving bank, who in turn would 
have had to pick up the request at their end and take further action. By this point, it would 
have been very late in the day and it seems  likely  the funds  wouldve  already left. The funds  
may have  been  removed  by the time Miss B contacted TSB in the first instance.  
In summary,  I think TSB couldve  potentially  raised  the claim against the receiving bank 
account sooner  than it did. But having  said that, even if TSB had acted sooner, I dont 
think this would have  led to Miss B getting her money back. I say this because, I think  its 
most likely the funds had already been removed from the beneficiary account before the 
beneficiary bank  would have had time to act. 
I am very sorry  that Miss B has lost out, and I appreciate this is a lot of money  for her to 
have lost especially  given  that it was funded by credit. I also understand this whole 
experience was very frustrating and upsetting for her. But in the circumstances, I dont think  
I can fairly say TSB couldve  done  more to help her and should  now refund her the money 
she lost as part of the scam.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint  against 
TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February  2021.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2472708