K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) lost silver that hed purchased 
(including associated  bank records). Hes also unhappy with the way RBS conducted its 
investigation into the missing silver and associated records. Mr As complaint is brought  by 
Mrs A on his behalf.
background
Mr A opened  a deposit account in 1963 with Williams & Glyn.  Over time this became part of 
what is now RBS. At some point in the 1980s, Mr A says he asked his bank to purchase  a 
large amount of silver.  He remembers he paid £5.04 per ounce  but he no longer has any 
paperwork for his purchase. He thinks the purchase of the silver may have been arranged  
through a silver  bullion dealer Ill refer to as S. S subsequently became part of another 
banking group.
Mr A has provided copies of RBS statements dating  back to the 1990s. They show he paid 
silver storage charges  and insurance through one of his RBS accounts. He also provided a 
number of RBS debit slips. These correspond to some of the charges for silver storage and 
insurance. Some of these say that the charges are payable  to S.
As well as the payments to S, Mr As statements show regular payments to RBS for safe 
custody. The earliest safe custody payment shown  on the available  statements was in 
April 1992. According  to RBS, the last of these payments  was in 2013.
In 2014, RBS closed  all of Mr As accounts as he hadnt used them for some time.  Mr A 
became aware  of this in 2015 when he tried to pay a cheque  into his account,  but couldnt.
In 2016 Mr A asked  Mrs A to help find his assets with RBS.  In March 2018,  Mrs A collected  
the contents of Mr As safe custody envelope  from a branch of RBS. The envelope was 
sealed. Inside  were some share certificates. Mrs A also expected  to find a certificate of 
ownership for Mr As silver but this wasnt present.
Mrs A complained to RBS but it didnt uphold  the complaint. It said there were  no records of 
Mr As purchase of the silver. Unhappy  with RBSs response, the complaint was referred to 
our service.
When our investigator looked  into matters  he noted that Mr A was paying for silver 
insurance and storage  from his RBS account but which  were  paid to S. And he didnt think  
Mr A was suggesting that the sliver should  have been held by RBS.
The investigator hadnt seen any evidence that the certificate was ever held with RBS  as 
the parties agree that the safe custody envelope  was still sealed when Mrs A went  to 
collect it. So he thought  it unlikely that the certificate  had been removed. He thought  it was 
possible that Mr A had never received  the certificate  from S or that it had been mislaid over 
the years.
Ref: DRN27922862The investigator noted that RBSs  investigation was limited to contacting the branch and 
asking them to look again for the missing certificate.  He thought RBS should also have 
contacted S because  Mr A had provided statements showing hed made payments to S. 
Although the investigator thought RBSs investigation should  have been better  he didnt 
think it had caused  Mr A any loss because when  RBS subsequently contacted S it was 
without success.
The investigator also contacted the precious  metals department of the bank that S 
eventually became part of to ask if they could help in tracking down  the silver. They told our 
service that they held no records  of an account  for Mr A. They  said their records  only went  
back seven years. But they also said S would have sent regular statements to any client 
who held bullion with them.
On Mr As behalf, Mrs A disagrees with the investigators view. In summary:
she thinks the investigator concentrated too much on rationalising the loss of the 
certificate of ownership.  She says shed already  come to the conclusion prior to 
involving our service  that there may not have been  a silver certificate.  For this reason 
her complaint was about the loss (including  any associated bank records) of.silver.  
She says its the loss or failure  to maintain records including ledgers,  files, forms, 
microfiche or electronic  data together with RBS closing Mr As accounts which  
maintained the safe keeping and insurance of the silver which  has resulted in the loss 
of a substantial  amount  of silver.  She wants to know what enquiries  RBS have done to 
look for associated documentation.
she doesnt  agree that RBS conducted a fair investigation as it was provided with 
copies of bank  statements  and debit advice slips showing the silver was in existence 
and payments to S which RBS didnt follow up on.
shes unhappy  that RBSs final response  letter didnt explain what had been  looked at 
as part of their investigation.
Following Mrs As further concerns the investigator  asked the bank that S eventually 
became part of, to check its records for any accounts held with the original bank through 
whom Mr A bought his silver. Having  done  so it confirmed it had no accounts now or in the 
last seven years in the name of the original bank through which  Mr A purchased his silver.
He also asked RBS what it had done to look for records  of the purchase  of silver  rather 
than the certificate.  RBS replied and said it doesnt have records of the initial  sale of silver to 
Mr A and due to the passage of time this information  will not have been retained. In terms of 
the insurance and storage fees the investigator  asked  why the direct debit was cancelled.  
RBS explained  that the payment  wasnt by direct debit but appeared to be an invoice from 
the insurer asking  for payment. RBS therefore debited Mr As account  but if no further  
invoices were received  it wouldnt  have made a payment.
The investigator explained that Mrs A appeared to accept that RBS never held the 
certificate. The investigator thought it likely that the silver was held with S but he explained 
that S had been dissolved in 2017 so he didnt think it would have made a real difference  if 
RBS had carried out a more thorough investigation.
Ref: DRN27922863my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I sympathise with the position Mr A finds  himself  in as theres no clear explanation  about 
what has happened to his silver or to associated documents  that might help to prove  he 
owned the silver.
However, Mr A says he purchased the silver in the 1980s and a significant  amount of time 
has lapsed since then.  I wouldnt expect financial institutions to retain  records  from this long 
ago. I appreciate that Mr A has been able to provide certain information but in the absence 
of documentation  to show he purchased the silver and through whom, I think RBSs 
investigation into the missing silver and associated records was always going to be limited.
I realise Mrs A feels RBS has failed to maintain records  to evidence  Mr As purchase  of the 
silver but Im afraid that in situations  where  I dont  have all the information I would ideally 
like, I have to make  my decision based on what I consider is more  likely than not to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the surrounding circumstances.
Mr As historic  statements  show that charges for safe-keeping  of silver and insurance 
debited his account. But that doesnt  mean  I can say the silver was ever deposited  with RBS 
or that his certificate for silver was ever lodged with RBS. In any event, Mrs A appears to 
have come to the view that neither  the silver nor the certificate for it was deposited with RBS.
The information Ive seen suggests  that the payments for silver insurance and storage were  
made to S. RBS says that S would have  sent the certificate to Mr A directly and if Mr A 
wanted RBS to store it for him Mr A would have needed to put it into safe custody himself.  I 
havent seen anything to suggest the certificate  was held with RBS and as the parties  agree 
that the safe custody envelope was still sealed  when Mrs A went to collect  it, I think  its 
unlikely that the certificate  for the silver could have  been removed from the envelope.
Mrs A thinks  the investigator  concentrated  too much on rationalising  the loss of the certificate.  
Instead she says Mr As complaint is about  the loss or failure  to maintain records  together  with 
RBS closing Mr As account  through which the safe keeping of the silver was maintained.  I 
appreciate her concerns but as I explained above due the significant lapse of time I dont think 
its unreasonable that RBS no longer has records to support Mr As purchase  of the silver. I 
also note that when Mrs A raised  these concerns, the investigator asked both the bank that S 
eventually became part of  and RBS further  questions, without success.
The bank that S eventually  became part of replied  to say it didnt have records within  the last 
seven years of any accounts  in the name of Williams and Glyn - through whom Mr A thinks  he 
originally purchased the silver. And RBS replied to say it didnt have any records  of Mr As 
original purchase and due to the passage of time this information  wouldnt have been  retained.  
Mrs A doesnt think RBS adequately investigated Mr As complaint. She thinks  it should have 
followed up on the statements theyd provided showing a link to S. However, I can see that 
the investigator already dealt with this in his view. He agreed that RBS should have 
investigated the connection  with S shown on Mr As bank statements. However, when RBS 
subsequently did so, without any success, the investigator concluded there had been no loss 
to Mr A. I agree with what the investigator has said here.
Ref: DRN27922864Although Mr A would  clearly have liked RBS to have  done more to help find the missing 
silver and associated documentation I cant say this would have affected the outcome or 
resulted in any better news him. As I explained  at the outset theres been a significant lapse 
of time since  Mr A says he purchased  the silver and I wouldnt expect RBS to have  retained  
records from that long ago. In the circumstances I cant  say RBS treated Mr A unfairly and it 
follows that I wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2792286