K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Society  of Lloyds is responsible for poor service  under a home 
emergency insurance policy.
background
Mr M had a policy that covered (among other things)  his central  heating  boiler. The policy 
was in the name of an insurance  intermediary. The insurer  responsible for dealing  with 
claims was a syndicate at Lloyds. Where I refer to the insurer, I include the intermediary, 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold the insurer responsible.
In August  2017  Mr M called the insurer for help with an intermittent noise from his boiler. The 
insurers engineer  didnt diagnose or fix any fault.  But Mr M says he continued to notice the 
noise  and increasing gas consumption.
Mr M didnt  renew the policy in February  2018.  In May 2018 he paid an engineer £330.00 to 
replace the boilers fan and a conveyor. Mr M complained that the insurer shouldve fixed 
those items  in August 2017  which wouldve prevented his increased gas consumption in 
the meantime.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that the 
policy covered damage defined as follows:
impairment requiring repair or replacement  to restore operation  arising from a 
cause not otherwise excluded.
The investigator thought that the only events covered  by the policy were when the heating 
stops working. The noise, the broken fan and the cracked conveyor didnt stop the system 
from operating, so wouldnt be covered by this policy, he said.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Society of Lloyds  on 3 May 2019.  I summarise my findings:
The words  requiring  repair to restore operation arent enough to make  clear a 
requirement for a total breakdown. So  unlike the investigator - I didnt think  it was 
clear that the policy only covered a total breakdown.
The May 2018 report falls short of showing that the fan was faulty or the conveyor 
was cracked in August 2017  or that the insurers engineer shouldve identified  such 
faults at that time. And the report says nothing  about the faults  causing  an increased 
consumption of gas.
Subject to any further information from Mr M or from Society  of Lloyds, my provisional  
decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct  Society of 
Lloyds to do anything  further in response  to this complaint.
Society of Lloyds agreed with the provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN20135972Mr M said he had nothing  further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service categorises  central heating  boiler  insurance policies as 
home emergency policies. But Mr Ms policy didnt contain a definition of emergency.
It covered damage  using  the definition quoted above. That included  the word impairment . 
And the words requiring  repair  to restore operation arent enough to make  clear a 
requirement for a total breakdown. So  unlike the investigator - I dont think its clear that 
the policy only covered  a total breakdown.
The policy excluded under-floor  heating.  It also excluded the cost of repairs  by engineers  not 
authorised by the insurer.
In August  2017  Mr M called for help because of a noise. He didnt say that his boiler had 
stopped working.  But the insurer sent an engineer. And the engineer didnt decline to help 
because the boiler  hadnt  broken  down. Rather I think he tried to help but couldnt hear a 
noise or find a fault.
For me, the key question  is whether  Mr M can show that the insurers  engineer in August 
2017 shouldve  identified and fixed a faulty  fan and cracked conveyor. I will come back to 
that.
In September  2017 Mr M noticed that his heating wasnt working. He called the insurer which 
sent another engineer.  He thought  that the problem might relate to a valve  for the underfloor  
heating (not covered by the policy).
Before the insurer  sent a more senior  engineer, Mr M paid privately for an engineer.  He said 
the first engineer  had closed and not re-opened  a valve. The insurer  hadnt  authorised  Mr 
Ms engineer. But it reimbursed his cost of about £60.00. I think  this was on the basis that 
the insurers engineer had carelessly  left the heating not working  in August.
Late 2017 and early 2018  brought some cold weather. So many people wouldve seen 
increased gas consumption.
Mr M didnt  renew the policy.  So in May 2018  he paid privately for a different engineer to 
service the boiler.  He replaced a faulty  fan and cracked conveyor at a cost of £330.00.
That isnt enough  to show that the insurers engineer shouldve  identified and fixed  a faulty 
fan and cracked  conveyor in August 2017. Things couldve changed in the intervening  period 
of about nine months.
The only written report from the engineer  in May 2018 is as follows:
WATER  INGRESS  DOWN THE FLUE.  SUSPECT THE CONVEYOR TO BE 
CRACKED AND SUSPECT THIS HAS BEEN HAPPENING FOR A LONG TIME AS 
THE MAIN HEAT EXCHANGER  IS NOW BEGINNING TO RUST IN A FEW  
PLACES AND THE NOISE FROM THE BOILER IS A FAULTY FAN WHICH HAS 
Ref: DRN20135973BEEN AN ISSUE FOR SOME  TIME NOWNEW CONVEYOR AND FAN 
REQUIRED
In my view that report falls short of showing that the fan was faulty or the conveyor was 
cracked in August 2017  or that the insurers engineer shouldve identified such  faults at 
that time.  And the report says nothing about the faults causing  an increased consumption of 
gas.
Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to order the insurer  to reimburse Mr M the 
£330.00 or to compensate him for his increased consumption  of gas.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. I 
dont direct Society of Lloyds to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2013597