K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr M says Northern Bank Limited  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Northern Bank had to make Mr M aware  the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before 
adding the PPI to his card. I cant be certain  what was said at the time Mr M took out his card 
and PPI but Northern Bank has provided  a copy of the available paperwork. The application  
form Mr M completed  to apply for his card had a separate section for PPI that has been 
ticked to accept the policy. The application  has also been signed in agreement  with the 
selections that were  made. The option to take PPI didnt have to be selected to continue with 
the application. With this in mind  I think Northern Bank made  it clear  that Mr M didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
Mr M has told us that the PPI was verbally  recommended to him. But I havent  since enough 
to suggest the policy  was recommended so Northern Bank didnt have to check  if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr M got the information  he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means he had of making 
his repayments  which included generous sick pay and savings.  But the PPI offered relatively 
good value for money; it would also have paid out in addition  to Mr Ms sick pay and for 
longer than he would have received full pay. In addition to this the policy  would have 
protected Mr Ms savings  so they could be used  towards other essential expenses.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because  Northern Bank didnt tell 
Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN20249052Ive thought about everything Mr M has said. But these points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank  should also pay back to Mr M any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Northern Bank should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr M the difference  
between what Mr M owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit  share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Northern Bank should also pay Mr M 8%* 
simple interest if hep aid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2024905