K820x#14complaint
Mr S says HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in August 1997.  Mr S says he 
completed a leaflet with assistance from a representative from HSBC  in one of its branches.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint and I will explain why.
The PPI was taken  out many  years ago and because of this theres little information 
available from the time of sale. So it has been  difficult for me to understand how the policy 
was presented to Mr S. 
Ive looked at what Mr S has said about  how the policy  was sold  that he was never told the 
PPI was optional.  I acknowledge his comments. But after considering Mr Ss recollections 
and also the very limited  information that has been  provided by both sides, I cant  safely  say 
he wasnt given a choice.  
Although I cannot  be sure what was discussed, I havent been able to see any evidence that 
anything different happened in this sale and Mr Ss recollections have not persuaded me on 
this occasion that he wasnt given a choice to have it either. I am sure Mr S has provided  his 
honest recollections as to what  happened,  but memories do fade over time and so with the 
very limited information I have, I just cant conclude that HSBC did anything wrong on this 
occasion.
I cannot be sure if HSBC gave Mr S a recommendation,  but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for Mr S anyway based on what he has told us of his circumstances  at the time. It 
doesnt appear, based on what I have in front of me, that Mr S would have had enough  
provisions he could  have  relied on to make  his credit card repayments if he couldnt work 
over an extended period.  So I think  he would  have found the benefits on offer from the policy 
of use. I cant say that the policy was unsuitable for him based  on what  I have seen.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should have 
been. But even  if all of the information was clearly provided, I dont think it would  have 
changed his decision  to have the insurance.  He was not affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy  was competitively  priced and affordable. So I think  it is unlikely     
Mr S would have made a different  decision  if better information had been provided. 
Ref: DRN29847762In conclusion, I know this will be a disappointment  for Mr S but I cannot find a reason to 
uphold his complaint.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Mark Richardson 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2984776