K822xcomplaint
Ms F complains that Gain Credit LLC, previously Lending Stream,  lent to her in an
irresponsible manner.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 
28 November 2019, an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I 
wont repeat  that information here.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that Lending Stream shouldnt have 
given Ms F the three loans it gave  to her. I set out what I proposed to direct it to do to put 
matters right.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Ms F agreed with my provisional  decision.  Lending  Stream acknowledged the provisional 
decision but didnt  provide  a substantive  response 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  party  has provided  me with anything  further  on the complaint, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  So, for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Lending Stream  should have given Ms F loans one 
to three. I think it should put matters right in the way I indicated in my provisional  decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Ms Fs complaint. I now require Gain Credit LLC to:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Ms F in relation to loans one, two and three.
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Ms Fs credit file in relation to loans 
one, two and three.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Gain  Credit to take off tax from this interest. Gain Credit  
must give Ms F a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
Ms F didnt fully repay these loans and the outstanding debts  have now been sold to third 
party debt collection companies.  I dont know whether Ms F has repaid any of those debts 
to the debt collection companies.
Ref: DRN24658292It seems reasonable that if Ms F still owes some of the capital she borrowed, the refund due 
to her should be used  first to repay  that debt.  But to do so, Gain  Credit must  first take the 
debts back into its own books and reduce  them to reflect just the capital that Ms F borrowed. 
Once it has recovered the capital Ms F borrowed,  any remaining compensation should be 
paid directly to Ms F.
If Gain Credit is unable,  or unwilling, to repurchase the debts within four weeks of Ms F 
accepting my final decision, it must ensure  that all its interest  and charges added  to 
these loans and any other interest  and charges added by the debt collection companies, 
are refunded  to Ms F, so she can choose  whether  to use the compensation to settle her 
debts directly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN24658293extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Ms F complains  that Gain Credit LLC, previously  Lending Stream, lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner.
background
Ms F took out three loans with Lending Stream in January  2014 and February  2014. The loans  were 
repayable in six, monthly repayments. Ms F made initial  repayments in relation to loans one and two 
but didnt repay any of the loans in their entirety. A summary of Ms Fs loans with Lending Stream is 
as follows:
Ms F says that Lending  Stream didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. She
says that, had it done so, it would have realised that she couldnt afford  to repay the loans. Ms F 
wants a refund of interest and charges, with interest.
One of our adjudicators assessed Ms Fs complaint.  He didnt think that Lending Stream  was wrong 
to lend to Ms F. Ms F didnt agree with the adjudicator  and asked that an ombudsman  consider her 
complaint, so it was passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about  short-
term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  - on our 
website.
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice, this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms F could  
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  
income and expenditure.  With this in mind,  in the early stages  of a lending relationship,  I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending  Stream should fairly  and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors include:
    the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN24658294    the greater the number and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Ms F could sustainably repay her loans 
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer  could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow  this is the case. This is 
because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending guidance defines sustainable as being  
without undue  difficulties and in particular,
the customer  should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other reasonable  
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a 
lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to 
make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Fs complaint.
Before each  loan, Lending  Stream carried out credit checks. The information a prospective lender  
can obtain from a credit check isnt in the same detail as Ms F can see from her own credit report. 
Nevertheless, Lending Stream has shown  us that the credit checks  it carried  out revealed that Ms F 
had a number of defaults  and delinquent accounts at the time.  The dates  of the defaults  and 
delinquencies arent clear from the information provided. But I think the number of defaults and 
delinquencies should have prompted Lending Stream to carry out further checks  on Ms Fs 
finances. In the particular circumstances here, I think that proportionate checks would have  
included establishing a fuller picture of Ms Fs financial  position before deciding to lend to her.
Based on what Ive seen, if Lending Stream had carried out fuller checks  before lending to
Ms F I think  it would likely have seen that at the time Ms F applied for loan one, she had four other 
short-term loans with two other lenders. I think that proportionate  checks wouldve shown that Ms F 
was having difficulty repaying previous loans. I think that there  was significant risk that Ms F wouldve  
been unable to meet her repayments  for any further borrowing in a sustainable way. So, I dont think 
that Lending Stream should  have given
Ms F loans one to three.
putting things right  what I intend  to require Lending Stream to do
I intend to uphold  this complaint. To put things right, I intend to require  Gain  Credit  LLC, 
previously Lending Stream, to:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Ms F in relation  to loans one, two and three.
Add simple  interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Fs credit file in relation to loans  one, two 
and three.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Gain Credit to take off tax from this interest.  Gain Credit must  
give Ms F a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN24658295Ms F didnt fully repay these loans and the outstanding debts have now been sold to third party debt 
collection companies.  I dont know whether  Ms F has repaid any of those  debts  to the debt collection 
companies.
It seems reasonable that if Ms F still owes some  of the capital she borrowed, the refund due to her 
should be used first to repay that debt. But to do so, Gain Credit must first take the debts  back into its 
own books and reduce them to reflect just the capital that Ms F borrowed.  Once it has recovered the 
capital Ms F borrowed,  any remaining compensation should be paid directly to Ms F.
If Gain  Credit is unable, or unwilling, to repurchase the debts within four weeks of Ms F accepting 
my final decision it must  ensure that all its interest and charges added to these loans,  and any 
other interest and charges added by the debt collection  companies, are refunded to Ms F so she 
can choose  whether to use the compensation to settle her debts directly.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Ms Fs complaint. I intend to require  Gain
Credit LLC,  previously Lending Stream,  to put matters right as indicated above.
Ref: DRN2465829