K822xcomplaint
Mrs K and Mr H complains that Calpe Insurance Company  Limited (Calpe) paid too high a 
price when it settled a third party claim against  their motor insurance  policy.
background 
Mrs K and Mr H have  a motor insurance policy provided by Calpe. The policy  they hold has 
a £3,000 excess on all areas of the policy, this means that they are responsible for the first 
£3,000 of any claim under the policy.
While pulling into a parking space in a car park, Mrs K hit a parked car. The left hand  
bumper of the car hit the third party car in the area of the passenger door. As the third party  
car was unattended Mrs K left a note with her contact details.
The third party contacted Mrs K and said they could have their car repaired at a cost of 
around £380. Mrs K thought this was expensive and so passed  on the insurance details so 
the claim could be made under the insurance policy.
Calpe received a third party  claim it was supported by an engineers report  which showed 
the damage to be across  the passenger door and the front wing.  
Calpe investigated  the claim and sent an investigator out to take a statement from Mrs K. 
Mrs K confirmed in the statement the circumstances around  the accident  and accepted  
responsibility for it.
As the repairs being claimed for were in line with Mrs Ks version of events, Calpe accepted 
and paid the claim at a total cost of £1,786.  As the claim cost was less than £3,000 Mrs K 
and Mr H were  responsible for the full amount of the claim and so Calpe contacted them  to 
pay it. They felt this was too expensive and that other damage they werent  responsible for 
had been repaired  so complained to Calpe. Calpe explained that the claim costs were as 
follows:
Repair to third party car: £1,137
Hire car costs for third party: £449
Claims investigation fees: £200
It said these costs were reasonable and so Mrs K and Mr H brought their complaint to this 
service.
The investigator partially upheld Mrs K and Mr Hs complaint in summary she said:
As liability was never in dispute  Calpe didnt  need  to instruct  an investigator but 
chose to do so. She said that it shouldnt try to claim back  the investigation costs 
from Mrs K and Mr H as this is part of the cost of carrying  out insurance business.
The repair and hire costs for the third party were reasonable and she was satisfied  
from the engineers  report that no pre-existing damage had been  repaired under the 
claim, and the work carried out was only for damage  caused by the accident.
Calpe agreed  with the investigators view and agreed to remove  the investigation costs.
Ref: DRN21251252Mrs K and Mr H disagreed, Mrs K said that she didnt cause any damage to the wing only 
the door and so this is all that should be covered  under the claim. The investigator  
reconsidered the engineers report as well as the photo of the third party damage that Mrs K 
provided when  she brought her complaint to our service.  And let Mrs K and Mr H know  that 
she remained of the opinion that the repairs were consistent with the damage caused by the 
accident. And so, Calpe had acted fairly in settling the claim for £1,586.
Mrs K and Mr H disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so I have to tell Mrs K and Mr H that I think  the investigator  has reached the 
right outcome here and for broadly  the same reasons,  so Im not sure how much I can 
usefully add here.
I understand that Mrs K feels strongly  that she only hit the passenger  door and didnt do any 
damage to the wing of the third party car. And her testimony to that fact is important but 
having reviewed  the file there are three key pieces  of evidence that satisfy me, on balance, 
that the wing was also damaged at the same time:
At the time of the accident Mrs K took a photograph of the damage to the third party 
car. Having looked at this I can see that there is a scratch  on the passenger  door, 
and it looks as if it extends onto the wing. 
The engineers  report indicates the impact is to the offside (passenger) front wing 
area, extending into the door
Mrs K provided a screenshot of text messages with the third party from when they 
were going to arrange repairs  themselves. The text message says: 
 Door  and wing need re spraying
It follows, I think it was reasonable  for Calpe to pay the claim for the damage as listed in the 
engineers report  and the hire car costs,  as the third party was entitled to this under their 
insurance policy. 
Calpe has already agreed to remove the investigation cost of £200 from the claim total 
reducing Mrs K and Mr Hs liability in this matter  to £1,586. I think  this is a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint and wont be asking to do anything more  to put this 
matter right for Mrs K and Mr H.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and require 
Calpe Insurance  Company Limited to deduct the claim investigation costs  of £200 from the 
total claim to reduce  Mrs K and Mr Hs liability under this claim to £1,586.
Ref: DRN21251253Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 December  2019.
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2125125