K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that Harvey & Thompson Limited  (H&T) sold items she had pawned  
without giving her the required amount of notice  or sending her any letters.
background
In around August 2015 Miss T pawned seven items, many of which  were  of sentimental 
value. The expiry  dates  of the agreements  were between July and October 2017 and the 
items were sent for auction  in December 2017. The business says it sent Miss T reminder  
letters both before and after the auction. It says that it also tried to call her before the auction  
on a number of occasions. The items are now no longer available. There  was a surplus on 
some of the items and Miss T is owed the balance of £40.24
Miss T says she did not receive any of the letters and they were  not sent to her. Miss T says 
she tried to find out where her items had gone so that she could buy them  back  but H&T 
were unhelpful.
 
Miss Ts complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it was 
upheld. He said he could  understand  how upset Miss T must be to have lost items of 
sentimental value. However, he couldnt  say that H&T did not tell Miss T about the auction or 
that it acted too quickly in selling them. He considered that Miss T was aware that the 
contract was due to expire and she needed to repay  the loans to get the items back. He said 
that the emails  between  Miss T and H&T showed that Miss T was aware  that the items 
would be sold and she asked H&T to stop sending  her letters in April 2017.
Miss T didnt agree and said she had not been  sent the letters  and she wanted an 
ombudsman to review  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Miss Ts disappointment at losing the sentimental items which had been 
given to her by her late grandmother.  However, I cannot say that H&T broke its contract with 
her. She borrowed money for six months and as it hadnt been  repaid the business  was 
entitled to sell the pawned items. I have looked  at the contracts and they clearly set out the 
expiration dates and what would happen if the loans were not repaid.
In April 2017 Miss T sent an email to H&T asking  for the reminder letter  about  her loans to 
be sent via email as she didnt  want  it posted  to her address. I agree with the adjudicator that 
this suggests  that Miss T was aware that her loans needed to be redeemed and that she 
knew when they were due.  
The items were sent to an auction house in October  2017 and H&T left a message on 
Miss Ts phone to explain that the items would be held until 18 October. Miss T sent an 
email asking for this to be extended until 27 October 2017. Miss T didnt contact H&T again 
until January 2018. The items were eventually sold in December 2017 so I dont think  the 
business rushed  to sell the items  or didnt give Miss T enough opportunity  or notice  to get 
them back. I cant say that she didnt know what was happening or that sending further 
Ref: DRN24943762letters would have  made any difference. I note that she said she wouldnt have enough 
money to get the items back until 27 October 2017 and so I cant  be sure that Miss T was in 
a position to buy her items back before they were  sold.
I sympathise with Miss T and I understand how upsetting it must be to lose these  items.  But I 
cant say that H&T did anything wrong so I cant uphold  her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or reject  my decision before 
14 August 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2494376