K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S say the used car they acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with Go Car 
Credit Limited was not fit for purpose. They now wish to reject the car.
background
In November  2017 Mr and Mrs S acquired  a used car via a four year hire purchase 
agreement with Go Car Credit. The car had a diesel engine and was seven years  old with 
a mileage of around 88,870.
Mr and Mrs S say that at the time they agreed  to buy the car theyd been clear  
when discussing it with the salesman that they wanted a car for short local 
journeys.
The car required a repair to the boot lock which was carried out and then in April 2018  the 
key fob required  a repair followed by another to the cars battery. In July 2018  Mr and Mrs 
S paid for repairs to the cars suspension.
In October 2018 the car began to lose power and broke down. Mr and Mrs S had to call 
out a roadside  assistance company on three  occasions. The roadside assistance engineer 
diagnosed a problem with the cars  diesel particulate filter (DPF). They  advised Mr and 
Mrs S that they needed to take the car on regular long runs to clear the filter.
Mr and Mrs S complained  to Go Car Credit that the car wasnt fit for purpose as they had 
purchased the car to do short local journeys and werent told about  the need  to take the 
car for regular long journeys to clear the DPF.
Go Car Credit didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. It said that at the time theyd 
acquired the car they wouldve been provided  with a leaflet by the dealership that wouldve 
set out generic information  about the upkeep of the vehicle. Go Car Credit also said there 
wasnt any evidence the DPF was faulty  and this was a wear  and tear issue  that required 
maintenance which was Mr and Mrs Ss responsibility.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy at Go Car credits decision and complained to this service. Our 
adjudicator recommended  that their complaint should be upheld. He said that as he hadnt  
been provided with a copy of the information leaflet he didnt know what had been said at 
the point of sale by the salesperson. However,  he thought it was likely that the maintenance 
requirements of the diesel  engine hadnt  been adequately discussed with Mr and Mrs S. Our 
adjudicator said it wasnt  reasonable  to expect  Mr and Mrs S to have  had a good 
understanding of diesel  engines to enable them to recognise that this type of engine  
wouldnt be suitable to their needs.
Our adjudicator said he didnt think it was reasonable for the salesperson to have 
recommended a diesel engine car to Mr and Mrs S after theyd said they wanted a car for 
short local journeys. He said a reasonable person wouldve expected  the salesperson to 
pick up on the information given by Mr and Mrs S and recommend a more suitable car to 
them. He said it was fair for Mr and Mrs S to now reject the car.
Our adjudicator said he had noted  the other faults  that had developed with the car but as
Ref: DRN23121132Mr and Mrs S had driven it for a further 11,000 miles he thought they had been able to 
have reasonable use of it. He also said that given the cars age and overall  mileage, it was 
reasonable to expect repairs to be necessary  over time due to wear and tear. Our
adjudicator said he thought the faults  with the boot lock, key fob, battery and suspension 
had developed after the point of sale and that it wasnt fair or reasonable to require Go Car 
Credit to reimburse Mr and Mrs S for the cost of those repairs.
After Mr and Mrs S had complained to this service the car developed  a problem with its 
clutch and flywheel. Our adjudicator said he thought  that it was likely these issues had arisen 
through wear  and tear and that Mr and Mrs S should  repair the car before handing it back  to 
Go Car Credit.
Our adjudicator concluded that it would be fair for Mr and Mrs S to reject  the car, for the 
agreement to be ended with nothing further to pay and for any information  about the 
agreement to be removed from Mr and Mrs Ss credit files. The car should also be 
collected at no cost to Mr and Mrs S and they should  receive  interest of 8% per year 
simple on all the payments theyd  made  under the agreement  together with £200  
compensation for the trouble and inconvenience  caused.
Mr and Mrs S agreed with our adjudicators  view but Go Car Credit disagreed. It said that Mr 
and Mrs S had been able to use the vehicle for 11 months and travel 11,000 miles since  the 
agreements inception. This indicated more than reasonable  use and that if the car hadnt  
been fit for purpose  then an issue with the DPF would  be expected to have arisen  earlier 
than it did.
Go Car Credit said the normal life span of a DPF was 100,000 miles and the car had 
travelled 97,700 miles when the problem  arose.  It said that Mr and Mrs S had 
averaged 1000  miles per month and if the car was used most days (say six out of 
seven) then this meant an average  daily mileage of 35. So it was more likely than not 
that Mr and Mrs S were undertaking longer journeys and so the car was suitable for 
them.
As the parties  werent able to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
I thought Mr and Mrs Ss complaint raised two issues on which  I must  decide. Firstly was 
the car misrepresented to Mr and Mrs S and secondly whether the car was of 
satisfactory quality.
Misrepresentation arises  when a false statement is made by the seller that induces the 
buyer to enter into the contract. Here Mr and Mrs S said they wouldnt have purchased the 
car if theyd  know that as it was diesel they would  need to drive it on frequent long journeys 
in order to keep the DPF from getting blocked. They said this type of driving  wasnt  how they 
intended to drive  the car and that theyd told the salesman this. They  said its because of the 
way they used the car that the problems with the DPF had now arisen.
I didnt  know what was said between the salesman and Mr and Mrs S but I didnt  have 
any reason to believe  the car wasnt recommended  to Mr and Mrs S by the salesman. 
So the issue  for me to decide was whether  the car was one that was suitable or not.
From the evidence Id seen problems with DPF arose after Mr and Mrs S had driven the car 
for 11 months and for around 1,000  miles per month. This was an average  mileage  and I 
Ref: DRN23121133didnt think I could  reasonably say it was consistent  with driving  only locally  for short  
journeys.
I was also aware that the average life span  of a DPF is 100,000  miles which was very 
close to the mileage of Mr and Mrs Ss car at the point the issues with this part arose. I 
thought most people  would think that it was likely the problems with the DPF arose due to 
wear and tear and not because Mr and Mrs S hadnt maintained  the car by driving  it for 
insufficiently long journeys to regenerate and therefore clean the DPF.
I also thought it was likely  that if the DPF wasnt being adequately regenerated then it 
wouldve caused problems prior to October 2018  especially taking  into account the 
number of miles being driven by Mr and Mrs S.
So I thought  that the car was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S and how they had used  the car. I 
didnt think the salesperson advised them to purchase a car that wouldnt meet  their needs 
or made any representations  about it that werent true. I didnt think the salesman 
misrepresented the car to Mr and Mrs S.
Id seen that the car has had a number  of issues with other parts  as well as the DPF 
problem. Ive also seen  that the car was around  7 years old at the point of sale with a 
mileage 88,800. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 a car must be of satisfactory quality 
at the point of sale. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect 
taking into account  all the relevant circumstances such as age, condition  and mileage  of the 
car. Durability is also part of satisfactory  quality as although no one would expect all the 
components of the car to last forever they also wouldnt reasonably expect issues  to arise 
with the car for a period of time.
If the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale then the retailer would have an 
opportunity to repair.  If that wasnt successful then the consumer would be able to reject 
the car. And where  a car was supplied under a finance agreement  then it was the finance 
company, in this case Go Car Credit, who was responsible for dealing with the fault.
However, I thought a reasonable person would expect Mr and Mrs Ss car to require 
repairs due to wear and tear after a period of reasonable use. And looking at when
the issues with the key fob, battery and suspension  arose I thought  a reasonable 
person would say that these had arisen after a period of use and the car was 
reasonably durable.
I was unclear when  the issue with the boot lock arose but it appeared from the 
evidence that this was repaired by the dealership  and not by Mr and Mrs S paying for 
this to be fixed.
So for the reasons given  above I didnt intend to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with my provisional  decision. They  said they hadnt  driven  an 
average of 1000  miles per month  as suggested by Go Car Credit as theyd taken the car on 
a holiday and had two long drives arranging  for some repairs to the car. They  said they 
generally used  the car for short trips which had caused the issue with the DPF. 
They also disagreed the problems with the DPF had started in October 2018 but said the 
problems had actually  started in May and carried on until October 2018.
Ref: DRN23121134Go Car Credit hasnt  said anything about my provisional view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at the evidence but Im afraid I havent changed my mind. Looking first at 
the mileage, while  I accept there  may have been  couple of months with heavier use when  Mr 
and Mrs S went on holiday or the car was driven back  to the dealership  for repairs I cant 
reasonably say those  events were the main  cause of the 11,000 miles driven  in that time. I 
still think its more likely  than not that the car was used  to close  to the average mileage over 
the 11 months Mr and Mrs S had the car. And I dont think that size of mileage  was 
consistent with using the car for short local journeys  only.
Mr and Mrs S say problems with the DPF started  earlier than October  2018.  Ive seen that 
they replaced an air filter at the recommendation of roadside assistance. The invoice for this 
part is dated  September 2018 which would be consistent with issues  with the DPF arising  
after Mr and Mrs S had the car for around 10 to 11 months. I dont have any evidence  that 
the DPF was causing  issues in May. And as Ive set out above, the life span of a DPF is 
around 100,000 miles which this car had nearly  completed when the problems  with the DPF 
arose. So I still think it would be reasonable to expect this type of repair  to be required at the 
time that it did.
I also think that if the car wasnt being  driven in a way that regenerated the DPF adequately 
problems would have  occurred earlier.
So although  I appreciate Mr and Mrs S are disappointed by my decision for the reasons set 
out above Im not upholding their complaint. Im satisfied  that the car was suitable for their 
needs and was of satisfactory  quality at the point of sale. 
my final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 December  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2312113