K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the way that QIC Europe Ltd dealt with their home insurance 
claim for collision  damage.
background 
In March 2018 Mr and Mrs A were  on holiday with their family when they were advised that a 
car had collided with their home. They made  arrangements  to return  home and made a claim 
to QIC on 22 March.  Arrangements were made to make the property safe. QIC then 
instructed a structural engineer to report.  Subsequently QIC instructed contractors to draw  
up a scope of works.  This was passed to the structural  engineer  to agree and after review,  
the scope was approved on 27 April. Mr A had indicated they would prefer  contractors that 
he knew to carry out the repair.  So QIC put forward a proposed  cash settlement. Mr A then 
said they wanted QICs contractors to carry out the repairs.  
Work commenced on 14 May.  Essentially, they were completed  by late July. There  were  
delays because of the matching of the bricks  with the rest of the house. The bricks supplied  
by the contractors werent a suitable  match, so after negotiation with Mr A it was agreed  that 
the bricks  would be coloured by a specialist.  There was an issue  with the colour washing off 
after rain but this was corrected.
Mr A complained that QIC (via its claim handling company) had failed to action the matter 
and that there was substantial maladministration  on its part. He said that no advice had been 
given to them and that he had had to chase the matter. They had to take time off work and 
there were missed appointments.  He believed that QIC had no regard for the family's safety 
and that it was only at his insistence that QIC sent out a contractor to make  the property 
safe. He also complained  that the contractors had carried out poor work  and had failed to 
protect the rest of the property from dust and debris and had failed to clean up properly after 
finishing the work.
QIC said the delays  were unavoidable and that it felt that it had dealt with the claim 
reasonably.
On referral to this service  our investigator  agreed  that the claim had been handled fairly, 
except with regard  to the failure to contain  or clean  up dust and debris. For that he proposed  
that QIC pay £200 compensation. In respect  of the poor work  Mr A says was carried out by 
the contractors I understand that he is in the course  of compiling evidence in respect  of this. 
As this issue  hasnt been put to QIC, and it didnt comment on it in its final response,  the 
matter will be dealt with as a separate complaint. 
QIC agreed to the proposed compensation.
Mr A didnt agree and said that his detailed  complaints hadnt been looked  at properly. In 
particular he pointed out that QIC had only acted when he pushed it to do so.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN29028522I should say first of all that although  Mr A has made a very detailed complaint,  I think its fair 
to take an overall  view of the matter and not go into forensic detail about everything  that 
happened during the claim. Hes also received a copy of the business file that Ive 
considered in reviewing  the progress of the matter. Mr A hasnt pointed out any particular 
missing papers or records. I would remind Mr A that we are an alternative  dispute resolution 
service and we set out to resolve complaints informally.
Firstly when the claim was made  Mr A made  it clear  that because of his job, he had 
experience of dealing with building  work.  The claims handler on the initial call would have 
had to assess what the familys situation was and although he says they didnt need 
alternative accommodation it was nevertheless a consideration. Mr A says there was no 
consideration for the familys safety,  but I note that QIC sent out its contractor the following 
day. Mr A had already made it clear that he intended  to hire some  acrow props  to make the 
room safe. The structural engineer appointed at the same time emailed  Mr and Mrs A to say 
that that was appropriate.
With regard to the starting of the work and any delays, the engineer came out to the property 
on 29 March, He drew up his report which he passed to QIC on 3 April. I know that Mr A 
expected a loss adjuster to attend at the same time to draw up the schedule of works.  
However this was initially left to the engineer who proposed to revisit with the contractors. 
That proved  not to be possible  but the contractors  did attend and drew  up the schedule 
which was later agreed with the engineer. Some parts of it were amended but it was 
approved by 27 April.  And as Ive said above once Mr and Mrs A decided  they wanted  QICs 
contractors to carry out the work  that was arranged to start on 14 May. 
The work wasnt extensive, involving only the front room. But it did include structural repairs, 
so I think the process of scoping the work  and liaising  with the structural  engineer took a 
reasonable length of time. Mr A may have  perceived QIC as only acting when he chased up 
the matter, but my review of the documents indicates to me that it acted promptly to arrange 
repairs. It may well have  pushed matters along because Mr A had already made it clear to 
the engineer that he wasnt happy  about  the way the claim was being dealt with. But I dont 
think theres any evidence  of mismanagement as alleged  by Mr A.
Mr A complained about the delays in getting the bricks matched. He says the contractors 
could have saved  time by purchasing a palette  of bricks rather  than cutting costs  by sourcing 
left over bricks from another  job. I appreciate what he says but these  sorts  of jobs are always  
tightly priced. I dont know exactly what transpired with the contractors at the property. But 
Mr A had made it clear  that they wouldnt accept a failure to match  bricks. But as with a lot of 
attempts to match that we see this can prove to be rather difficult. Mr A was given the option 
of sourcing the bricks himself.  While  he didnt think he should  have  had to do that, I think the 
ultimate solution reached, in employing an expert  to tint the bricks  was reasonable even 
though it took longer. 
Mr A says he had to take time off for missed  appointments  and had to attend for schedules  
to be drawn up and had to curtail his holiday. Unfortunately  theres always going to be a lot 
of disruption due to an insurance claim and the policy doesnt cover compensation for that 
sort of disruption. With regard to missed appointments I think  there was only one missed,  
through illness. Whilst I understand the annoyance  this caused and that Mr and Mrs A 
should have been given  more notice, I think QICs apology for this was reasonable.
Ref: DRN29028523Mr A says that the property wasnt protected properly from dust, particularly as there were 
young children  in the house. He says that affected the whole ground floor of the property and 
that it wasnt cleaned  up properly. QIC only offered for the property  to be re-cleaned  about 
six weeks after the works were finished.  I see that as a special  request  QIC did contact the 
contractors and asked  them  to take particular  care in this respect. Nevertheless I dont think  
enough care was taken,  leaving  Mr and Mrs A to carry out the cleaning themselves. Our 
investigator proposed  that QIC pay £200  for the inconvenience  caused and I think  thats 
reasonable.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require QIC Europe Ltd to pay to Mr and Mrs A £200  
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 August 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2902852