K820x#14Complaint
Mr C says AXA France IARD (AXA)  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
Background
Mr C took out the PPI in-store  alongside  a hire purchase (HP) agreement  in 1998. The PPI 
protected his monthly repayments if he couldnt  work due to disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
It was for AXA to explain to Mr C that the policy was separate to the HP agreement and was 
optional. Mr C says he didnt know it had been  added. 
Unfortunately, not all of the evidence from the time of the sales still available. I dont find that 
surprising given how long ago it took place.  And, while Ive taken into account what  Mr Cs 
recalls of the sale, I have  to bear in mind  his memory of it might not be as strong as he 
believes given the time thats passed. 
Ive also thought about the credit agreement  AXAs  provided from the sale which was signed 
by Mr C. It includes a section headed Protection  for Your Payments and requires that a box 
is marked if PPIs to be added to the account.  The box was marked with a printed X.
Mr C argues the printed X doesnt prove he agreed  to have the PPI. But, from experience of 
how AXA sold these policies at the time, I think its likely there was a discussion between the 
member of staff and Mr C about PPI and that Mr C agreed to have it, knowing it was 
separate and optional.  
I dont think AXA recommended the PPI to Mr C. But it should still have provided  him with 
clear, fair and not misleading information  about the PPI so he could decide for himself  
whether it was right for him. I dont know if AXA did that but, from what I know  about his 
circumstances in 1998 and the likely  terms of the policy:
Mr C would have been  eligible  for the cover. And he wouldnt have been  affected by 
any of the other exclusions  to, or limits  on, the PPI. 
Mr C seems to have  had a need  for the cover  he says he had some work benefits 
but these were discretionary. He had no other means he could have relied  on if he 
wasnt working due to disability or unemployment.  On the other hand, the PPI 
benefits would have paid out on top of any work benefits and could potentially have 
paid out for up to 12 months per claim.  So I think hed have found  the PPI useful.
Ref: DRN24365712Its not clear now what the PPI premium was but, from experience,  it was likely to be 
no more than £10 a month (AXAs confirmed the total premiums  paid amounted  to 
less than £54). So I dont think Mr C would have considered it to be unaffordable. 
And the policy was flexible in that he could have  cancelled it any time if he decided  
he no longer wanted  it.
 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr Cs lost out because of how AXA sold him 
the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2436571