K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) mishandled a 
parking charge notice for a car he has via a hire purchase agreement.
background 
Mr S has a car via a hire purchase agreement with VWFS. In December 2017  Mr S parked 
the car in a private car park. Mr S says he paid the correct parking charge but either  made 
an error when entering his registration  into the ticket machine or the machine itself was faulty 
as the recorded registration  had an extra letter.
In January 2018 a parking  charge notice (PCN) was issued for £30 (reduced  to £18 if paid 
within 14 days)  as it was said no valid payment had been made when  the car park had been 
used in December  2017. This notice was sent to VWFS as the registered keeper of the car.
VWFS says that in February 2018 it attempted to pass the liability  on to Mr S but neither he 
nor the parking company  received any correspondence about this.
The parking  company sent reminders to VWFS about the PCN  in February and April 2018. 
Due to the delay in payment the charge  increased to £125.  VWFS  paid this amount and in 
June 2018 contacted Mr S requesting reimbursement of this amount.
Mr S replied  to VWFS saying that he would have challenged the PCN  if he had been aware 
of it as he had paid the correct amount to park in December 2017. He asked for a copy of 
the PCN  to be sent to him by VWFS.
In July 2018 VWFS attempted to deduct £125 from Mr Ss bank account but Mr S instructed 
the bank to decline this payment. He immediately complained  to VWFS. VWFS said that it 
had to ensure the fine was paid to avoid further  risk to the vehicle  and so it cleared the 
outstanding demand from the parking company.  It said that it had credited back £107 to Mr S 
as it had waived  the escalation and admin fees leaving £18 remaining to be paid.
VWFS also said that Mr S could still appeal  this matter to the parking company and it had 
issued a permission  letter allowing Mr S to contact the parking company directly over this 
matter.
Mr S was unhappy at this response and complained again to VWFS that it hadnt fully 
addressed the issues he had raised in his complaint.  VWFS said it wasnt upholding Mr Ss 
complaint and the £18.00  remained  outstanding. It said he hadnt lost his right to appeal  the 
matter with the parking company.
Mr S was unhappy at VWFSs response  and complained to this service. Our adjudicator 
recommended that Mr Ss complaint should  be upheld and the outstanding £18 should be 
waived by VWFS.
Our adjudicator said that the PCN set out that if it was received by the hirer of a vehicle then 
it should provide  the name  and address  of the person who had hired the car to the parking 
company. He said that this didnt appear to have happened. And although  it was recorded on 
VWFS notes that an attempt to transfer the liability to Mr S had been  made  he didnt think a 
reasonable effort had been  made  to do so. 
Ref: DRN22273102Our adjudicator said Mr S wouldnt have been  aware a PCN  had been  issued and VWFS  
was incorrect to say he could still appeal the notice. This was because once the fine had 
been paid it was taken by the parking company as an admission  of liability.
Our adjudicator said looking  at the ticket that Mr S had produced and the nature  of the error 
over the registration  number he thought  it would be more likely than not that Mr S would win 
his appeal.
VWFS agreed with our adjudicators view but Mr S said he thought it was fair that VWFS 
compensate him for the amount of time and stress  caused by dealing with the problem  that 
was entirely of VWFSs making. He said he hadnt  seen  the full PCN and so was unaware  of 
its terms and conditions  and the instructions given if the car was a hired  one. He said he 
didnt think there had ever been  an attempt to pass the PCN on to him and he felt VWFS  
hadnt been open and transparent in how it had dealt with this matter.
Our adjudicator said he agreed VWFS should have passed on a full copy of the PCN when 
Mr S had requested  it. And that the process would have been clearer  if VWFS had provided  
Mr Ss name to the parking company  when  it first received the PCN. But it was VWFS whod 
had to absorb  the full cost of the PCN as a consequence of not doing  so.
Our adjudicator said he thought Mr S would have had the same inconveniences if hed 
received the PCN directly  from the parking company  and there was no guarantee an appeal  
would have been successful. He said he was satisfied  Mr S wasnt in a worse position for 
VWFS delays.  He said he didnt think compensation was warranted in this particular 
complaint. 
Mr S disagreed with our adjudicators view on compensation. He said he thought  he was in a 
worse position. He said hed had to send a number of emails  to VWFS and spend a vast 
amount of time dealing with the matter. He said hed only have had to deal with the parking 
companys appeal system  if the PCN had been passed directly to him. And it was VWFSs 
failure at the beginning to follow the correct process  that had caused him to have to spend 
his time dealing with the matter.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me.        
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its agreed that Mr S parked in this particular car park on the date and at the time stated in 
the PCN.  Its also accepted by Mr S that the registration of his car was wrongly entered into 
the machine either by human error or due to an error with the machine  itself. So the issuing 
of the PCN itself was nothing to do with VWFS. This notice would always  have been issued 
by the parking company  and would have required dealing with.
VWFS received the PCN around a month later. I agree with our adjudicator that things would 
have been more straightforward had it followed the instructions on that notice to tell the 
parking company the car was being  hired  by Mr S and allow  the company to deal directly 
with him. Had it done so then its clear Mr S would have  appealed this notice.
Ref: DRN22273103Instead by delaying the notification to Mr S, VWFS  caused the PCN cost to rise to £125 as 
the discount for early payment was lost.
As its agreed Mr S has no liability  to pay the PCN, the full amount being covered by VWFS, 
the remaining  issue for me to decide  is whether its fair for VWFS to compensate  Mr S for 
the time taken in dealing with this matter.
Mr S says that it would  have been quicker  and easier for him to have dealt with the parking 
companys appeal process than with VWFSs  demand  for payment for the PCN. But I dont 
think I can reasonably say that there  wasnt a possibility his appeal might have been 
rejected. And Mr S would still have had to provide a full explanation  and a copy  of the 
parking ticket hed received from the machine.
I agree  that when  Mr S requested a copy of the PCN  from VWFS that he should  have  been  
provided with the full documentation and not just the first page. But I dont think  VWFS was 
trying to hide anything by providing this. It was also too late by then for Mr S to have dealt  
directly with the company as the fine was paid shortly afterwards thereby closing the matter  
as far as the parking company was concerned.
The outcome of the way VWFS dealt with this PCN was for the fine to increase from £18 to 
£125. But its VWFS that has had to absorb that cost and its agreed this shouldnt be 
passed on to Mr S.
So, looking  at the impact of this matter on Mr S Im satisfied that had the PCN  been passed 
on to him so that he could have dealt with it directly then he would have inevitably been  
involved in correspondence with the parking company. Although I accept  he had a strong 
likelihood of winning  an appeal  it is still possible that the appeal  may not have been 
successful.
And while I appreciate  Mr S has found  this matter  stressful  I dont think  I can reasonably  say 
it has placed him in a worse position  than had he dealt with the PCN himself. So I dont think 
its reasonable to ask VWFS to compensate Mr S for the time he has taken dealing  with the 
matter as its quite possible he would have spent a similar amount of time dealing with the 
parking company about an error that was not VWFSs fault. And Im not upholding that part 
of his complaint.  Im not asking  VWFS  to do more than waive the outstanding  £18.00  charge. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im asking  Volkswagen  Financial Services  (UK) Limited to 
waive the outstanding £18.00 charge but Im not asking it to do more.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2227310