K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  the interest  and charges Lloyds Bank  PLC applied to their joint 
current account.
background
Mrs H says she and her husband been Lloyds  customers for many  years,  and theyve been 
charged more than £500 a year in fees and charges in recent years.  She says the fees and 
interest meant that they cant  get out of their joint account overdraft. So theyre  in a cycle  of 
charges that have  caused financial hardship. Mrs H doesnt think  Lloyds has treated them 
fairly, or done  what it should to help customers in financial  difficulty.  She wants Lloyds  to 
reimburse them for the fees and charges applied over the last six years.
Our investigator sympathised  with Mrs H. However,  she didnt think Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint should  be upheld.  She appreciated the situation Mrs H has told us shes in. But 
she said that following  a Supreme Court  ruling  in November  2009 about current account 
charges, its clear that Lloyds was entitled  to apply charges as long as they were  applied in 
line with the terms  and conditions of the account.  
Our investigator could  see that Mrs H had previously complained to Lloyds about this matter  
in 2013. Lloyds issued a final response  on 19 March 2013, but Mrs H didnt  take the matter 
further around that time.  So she said we couldnt consider the fees and charges applied 
before that date.  Thats because the rules  that govern our service say that where the 
financial business has objected (as it has in this case), we cant  look at a complaint made 
about events which happened more than six years before the complaint was made, or (if 
later) it is more than three years  since the consumer knew  or ought reasonably  to have 
known that there was cause for complaint.
As Mrs H complained in early 2013,  our investigator thought it was clear that she knew she 
had cause for complaint.at this time.
So our investigator considered the fees and charges applied  to Mr and Mrs Hs account after 
this point. She said that having looked  at the relevant bank statements, Mr and Mrs H were 
mostly overdrawn  (but within their arranged overdraft) since  March  2013. In 2017  Mrs H told 
Lloyds she was in financial difficulty, but after a financial review she said she wanted to 
leave the account as it was. Lloyds responded by telling Mrs H to monitor the account 
regularly. In October 2017 Mrs H told Lloyds there  wasnt  an issue maintaining the account, 
and that they didnt  need assistance.
Our investigator said that lenders  are required to treat consumers in financial difficulties 
positively and sympathetically. But they need  to be aware of the situation  before they can be 
expected to assist.  As Mrs H told Lloyds she didnt need help until she complained in early 
2019, she didnt  think it was fair to expect Lloyds to have acted sooner. Lloyds didnt uphold 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.  But in April 2019  it froze one months worth of fees and charges 
to help them  reduce their overdraft. Lloyds also told Mrs H about organisations that help 
consumers to manage their finances who are in a financial  difficulty.  And it advised Mrs H to 
contact its Customer Support  Unit
.
Ref: DRN26625402In the circumstances, our investigator thought that Lloyds hadnt made a mistake in the way 
that it handled this matter.  Mrs H disagreed and asked for this complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. She said she has contacted  numerous financial companies about  their 
financial difficulties, and Lloyds were the least helpful by far.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about  the difficulties Mrs H says she and her husband  have had. I can 
see that theyve  been within their arranged overdraft for most of time since March 2013  and 
Im conscious of the amount of money  theyve  been  charged in fees and charges.
However, the Supreme Court has considered current account  charges. In November 2009 it 
made it clear  that bank  charges  couldnt be challenged on the basis  that they are too high or 
unfair. In other words, Lloyds was entitled  to apply charges as long as they were  applied in 
line with the terms  and conditions of the account.  Im satisfied that the charges  Lloyds  
applied in this case were in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mrs H has argued  that Lloyds shouldve done  more to help as the charges caused  hardship. 
I dont underestimate  her strength of feeling  about this, but I think Lloyds  could reasonably 
expect Mrs H to tell it about how the charges  were  causing her hardship, if she wanted  it to 
help her. The only instance of her doing that before this complaint was made was in 2017. 
But Mrs H hasnt disputed the fact that she told Lloyds to leave  the account as it was in 
October 2017. 
After Mrs H complained in 2019 it froze  one months  worth  of fees and charges to help 
reduce the overdraft on the account. Lloyds also told Mrs H about organisations that help 
consumers to manage their finances who are in a financial  difficulty.  And it advised Mrs H to 
contact its Customer Support  Unit. These actions are in line with what  we would expect 
Lloyds to do after being told that a customer is in financial difficulty.
In the circumstances, I cant say that Lloyds made a mistake in the way that it handled this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 October  2019.
Laura Forster
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2662540