K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002 and increased in 2005. Mr and Mrs W say HSBC  UK Bank  Plc mis-sold them  the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs W paid for the policy with a regular  monthly premium,  which  did not attract  
interest. It covered Mr W in case he was off work  sick or lost his job.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I can see Mr and Mrs W went through  their circumstances with HSBCs advisor. 
According to the record of the advice, the advisor  found  they had a need for PPI and 
recommended it to them. This was only a recommendation, not a requirement  and 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  accept all of the advisors  recommendations, so it looks  like they 
knew they didnt  have to. From  the electronic record of their mortgage  application, it looks 
like Mr and Mrs W took out PPI for Mr W.
Similarly, its recorded that they increased the benefit in 2005  when  they took out a further 
advance. The PPI was not a condition of the mortgage, and indeed the 2005 mortgage 
offer confirmed that Mr and Mrs W didnt have  to buy any insurance from HSBC  if they 
didnt want to. And it seems they knew they had the policy, as they successfully claimed 
on it in 2013.
I cant be sure of exactly what  happened,  since  because of the time thats passed neither  
side have the original documents from the sale. But Ive not seen any evidence which 
shows that HSBC  added the PPI without Mr and Mrs Ws permission or misled them into 
taking it. Nor have I seen  any wider  problems with HSBCs sales  process  from the time. 
And from the evidence  I have, it looks like Mr and Mrs W were given a choice and chose  
PPI. So I think thats whats  most  likely to have  happened   though I can understand if 
Mr and Mrs W no longer  remember choosing PPI after so many years.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, so it had to check that the policy  was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  
that it was. For example, it looks like Mr W was the main  earner,  was eligible for the 
cover, and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. While he had some  
sick pay and savings,  the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and it offered  him more 
comprehensive cover. It also meant that Mr and Mrs W could, in effect, protect their 
savings and use them for other things. Its worth bearing in mind that if Mr and Mrs W had 
fallen behind  on their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So it looks  like the PPI 
couldve been useful  for them in protecting their home and giving some peace of mind  
as it was when  they successfully  claimed on it.
Ref: DRN20894562Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But as I said above,  it doesnt  look like Mr W was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI, and it would have  been useful for Mr and Mrs W if 
something went wrong. The PPI was competitively priced given  how much it could pay 
out in a claim and it looks like it was free for the first six months.  And the policy  was paid 
on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs W could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put them  off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But HSBC  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because  HSBC  didnt  tell 
them, that was unfair.  
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
What the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should  also pay back  to Mr and Mrs W any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
That means HSBC  should  pay back to Mr and Mrs W the extra  they paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. HSBC 
should also pay Mr and Mrs W 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs W can claim  back  the tax if they dont  pay 
tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc doesnt  have  to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 September 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2089456