K820x#14complaint
Mrs R has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  unfairly 
refused to pay her claim under her pet policy.
background
Mrs R bought her policy with Red Sands on line. It started on 3 September 2018. On 21 
September 2018, she brought  her dog to the vet given she was passing blood  in her urine. 
The vet notes detailed  Mrs R said this had been going on for a few weeks.
Mrs R made  a claim for the costs of treatment  from 21 September 2018 to 2 January 2019. 
Red Sands  said her dogs  issues pre-dated the start date of her policy  and as this was 
excluded from cover under the terms and conditions, it wouldnt pay her claim.
Mrs R then brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think  Red Sands had done 
anything wrong. Mrs R disagreed so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
The policy terms are very clear that no condition is covered if it started  before the cover date 
of the policy. This is standard  in almost all pet policies, so I dont find it unusual.  Mrs Rs 
policy started on 3 September 2018. It consequently provided cover  for any claim resulting 
from an accident from 8 September  and any illness from 17 September.
When Mrs R took her dog to the vet on 21 September, the vet history clearly  said Mrs R said 
this has been  going on for a few weeks. Whilst that doesnt indicate  precisely  how many 
weeks, Red Sands have decided this was at least more than two weeks and I dont consider 
that assumption is unreasonable. Therefore on the face of it, that means  her dogs issues 
began before 17 September when cover  for illnesses started  under  this policy. 
There was some discussion  as to whether the blood in the urine noted on 21 September  was 
related to the later treatment in December,  but its clear the claim is for treatment  from 21 
September. Therefore I dont consider its reasonable to say it all wasnt related. Further,  
Mrs Rs dog had stones  in her bladder, so additionally, it seems  reasonable to me the issues 
was all related since  she presented  with blood in her urine  on 21 September.  Her vet said it 
could have been unrelated, but he wasnt definite  on the issue.  
Therefore the history  shows  an issue from sometime before 17 September which culminates 
in a claim presented  to Red Sands  on 4 January 2019 which includes the vet visit costs  of 
21 September 2018 onwards. Given the claim includes  the first visit of 21 September,  that 
further indicates to me it was assumed by the vet that the issue  started from 21 September.  
As no pre-existing conditions are covered by this policy and given this presentation of 
Mrs Rs claim, I dont  consider Red Sands did anything wrong in refusing to pay it and saying 
it was excluded. 
Insurers are entitled to rely on what the vet history  says, as its a virtual  contemporaneous  
account of what  was going then.  Mrs R said Red Sands  couldnt  possibly know  when her 
Ref: DRN23861942dogs symptoms started.  However that is exactly why it and indeed  any other pet insurer 
relies on what is put down in the vet history by the vet. Mrs R also said she told the vet her 
dogs problems had only being going on for a few days, but theres  no evidence before me 
that her vet agrees this was the case,  or that he agrees the notes for her visit of 21 
September on the vet history for her dog are wrong. If Mrs R is still of this view,  then its a 
matter for her to take up with her vet and not Red Sands.
It doesnt matter for insurance coverage issues,  when  a policyholder takes  their pet to a vet, 
as what matters is the initial account of the history  of the matter  the vet is being asked to 
treat or diagnose as recorded by the vet in this initial consultation. Here the vet history is 
clear that her dogs  issues on 21 September had been going  on for a few weeks. I think the 
assumption that it had started before 17 September isnt unreasonable, given theres no 
other evidence to the contrary. Consequently I dont consider Red Sands did anything  wrong  
in deciding not to pay this claim.
my final decision
So whilst I appreciate  Mrs R will be disappointed,  for these reasons, its my final decision 
that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2386194