K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz), as the insurer, should 
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Allianz as the seller 
in my decision.
Ms B says Allianz mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Ms B took out with a charge card in 1995.  It was added 
to her account when  she applied  for the card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for her 
and Ill explain my reasons why.
Allianz had to make  it clear to Ms B that the policy was optional and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied to the account. Allianz has said the optional nature of the policy was 
made clear. Ive been given a copy of the application  form completed  at the time of the sale 
and I can see that there is a section for the PPI. The box has been  ticked to confirm the cover 
is required and Ms Bs name and date of birth have been entered  in the box to confirm  she is 
to be the insured person.  If Ms B didnt want to take out the PPI, she could have left this 
section blank. Ms B has signed the overall application which  suggests  that she agreed  with 
everything that had been entered. 
Ms B has said she was told she had to take out the cover to help with her application.  Ive 
thought about this carefully but, when reviewing the application, I cant  see anything on the 
form which suggests that the PPI is a condition of the lending  or that it would improve the 
chances of making  a successful application.  So without any evidence  to support her 
recollections, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
So, on balance, I think Allianz made  it clear  the policy  was optional and Ms B chose to take 
it, knowing she could  refuse it if she wanted to.
Allianz didnt recommend  the policy to Ms B. This means it didnt have to check  if the policy 
was right for her. But it did have  to give her clear enough information to enable  her to decide 
for herself if she should take the policy.
Its possible  the information Allianz  gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But even  if Allianz had given  her better or clearer  information,  I dont think it 
would have made a difference.  I still think she would have taken the policy.  I say this 
Ref: DRN22003202because Ms B was eligible  for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main 
exclusions or limitations to the cover, such as having unusual  working  arrangements  or 
suffering from a medical condition of which she was already aware.
Ms B cant recall  if she was entitled to any sick pay from her employer if she was too ill to 
work. But this policy  would pay out until she was able to return  to work  or until the 
outstanding balance was paid  whichever came first. And this would be in addition to, and 
potentially for longer  than, any sick pay she may have received. And the policy  would have 
provided cover for the same term if she was to lose her job. As Ms B has told us she didnt 
have any savings or other means with which to meet her repayments if she wasnt earning,  I 
think this policy could  have provided  her with a useful benefit  if something had gone wrong.
So when taking  everything into consideration, I dont think  Ms B has lost out as a result of 
anything that Allianz  may have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2200320