K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that the vehicle he acquired  on a conditional sale agreement financed by 
PCF Bank Limited was not of satisfactory  quality. He wants  to reject it or have the cost of 
repairs refunded.
background
Mr T tells us that the vehicle was acquired, in early March 2018, from a dealer Ill refer to as 
M. He says he had problems from the outset and made complaints about the vehicle to M 
before turning to PCF in August 2018. Issues have included oil leaks, and a noise from the 
engine. He says PCF arranged for the vehicle to be inspected  following which  it rejected his 
complaint. Mr T says hes now obtained  two independent reports  on the vehicle  which he 
says shows the faults were present  at the point of supply. And he states he had to pay for 
repairs costing over £4,000 in order to get the vehicle back  on the road.
PCF told us that it had arranged to have  the vehicle independently  inspected  by a company 
Ill refer to as A. It said As report had found the faults with the vehicle werent  present  at 
the point of supply. And that theyd  arisen from wear  and tear during the time Mr T had 
possessed the vehicle.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 January 2020. I said that I was 
minded to uphold  the complaint. And that I intended to require PCF to repay the cost of 
relevant repairs and refund two monthly  payments in respect of impaired use. I said I also 
thought Mr T should receive £100  for the distress and inconvenience  hes experienced.
Since issuing my provisional  decision PCF hasnt responded. Mr T has replied and has said 
he partially agrees  with my provisional decision. But in addition to the recommended awards 
he thinks he should be allowed to reject the vehicle  and receive  a refund of his deposit.  He 
also feels the finance should  be cancelled  and the agreement removed from his credit file. I 
thank Mr T for his reply  and Ill deal with the specific points  he raised in my final decision 
which is set out below. But for the reasons Ill explain Im not minded to alter the terms of 
settlement Ive suggested in my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts conditional  sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement  and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. PCF supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act of 
2015 (CRA).
Ive been provided  with a large  amount of evidence  by the parties in this case.  And if I dont 
comment on an individual item, its not that I havent taken it on board. Its just that I dont 
think I need to refer to it separately in order to give the reasons for my decision. And where  
information is contradictory, unclear or inconclusive  - as some  of it is here - Im required to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN27728842The vehicle in this case was about  nine years of age when supplied. The invoice refers to 
the odometer reading of 99,876 but this is inconsistent with the reading of 102,001 at an 
MOT test on 9 March  2018. And the latter reading  is in my view likely to be the more reliable.
As an older, used vehicle  I wouldnt expect it to be perfect. But its still required to be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied - taking into account such considerations as age and 
previous use. And it cost £13,950. Satisfactory quality also contains an element of durability 
and so Mr T was entitled to expect a reasonable period of use from the vehicle.
Ive seen information relating to three inspections of the vehicle. These inspections were  
carried out by A, on behalf of PCF, on 6 September 2018.  And Mr T arranged for inspections  
to be carried out by B - a garage  approved  by the vehicle manufacturer.  This inspection 
took place on 12 October. And on 21 November  the vehicle was inspected  by a company Ill 
refer to as MA, which subsequently carried out repairs.
At the time A came to inspect the vehicle on 6 September the odometer reading was 
106,760 miles. It identified  oil leaks and engine noise which it attributed  to a possible issue 
with the prop shaft and cam belt tensioner  area.
A said it thought  the discrepancy  in the mileage figures at the time of supply was critical in 
establishing whether the faults  were  present  or developing at the point of supply.
I can only infer this meant that if it were to be established that the lower mileage figure at the 
time of supply was correct  it would make it less likely the problems arose  from faults existing 
at that time. Conversely,  if - as proved to be the case - the higher mileage was accurate then 
that would  seemingly support the view that the faults  had probably been present at the point 
of supply.
It was therefore, somewhat surprising that A upon learning the higher figure was correct then 
said it didnt think the faults were  present  at the point of supply. And it went on to state that 
the wear rate would typically increase in the final 1,000 - 1,500 miles. Given A knew the 
vehicle had - even on the lowest  calculation  - travelled around 4,000 miles its surprising this 
wasnt stated in its initial findings.
Bs report identified several oil leaks including major oil leaks from the turbo; oil sump  
gasket; leak between engine and gearbox  and leak between transfer box and engine.  In 
addition it said the diesel  particulate filter was at the end of life and also found  the rear 
differential internal  bearings were faulty.  Bs mechanic thought it unlikely that all the faults 
wouldve occurred when  Mr T was in possession of the vehicle.
MA commented that the car had faults  which do not occur over a short period of time.  And it 
stated that it considered the multiple  oil leaks were  likely to be present at the point of supply. 
MAs invoice showed that repairs included the fitting  of a new prop shaft; turbo; repairs to 
rear differential,  rocker  cover gasket and breather  unit and automatic gearbox filter and 
sump. At the same time it also fitted front and rear brake pads and discs.  The total repair bill 
came to over £4,400.
Ref: DRN27728843Clearly theres a significant  difference between some of the opinions offered following  the 
inspections of the vehicle. But one common factor is that all three  experts agreed that there 
were oil leaks and other  major  faults.  On a balance of probabilities, I think the conclusions 
drawn by B and MA - which both felt faults  were probably present at the point of supply - are 
the more reliable. As initial  report stressed the importance of knowing the accurate mileage 
before determining if the faults had been present when Mr T acquired the vehicle. But having 
discovered the higher mileage figure was correct it then reached what - based on its original  
report - seemed to be an inconsistent conclusion. And a further  inconsistency  was apparent 
when it went on to explain that a higher wear rate might be expected in the final 1,000  - 
1,500 miles. A fact it hadnt mentioned  originally.
I think, even if the experts opinions were to be discounted, that it would require an unlikely 
coincidence for so many  separate oil leaks and other faults to each arise  independently  in 
the short period between  Mr T acquiring  the vehicle and the inspections. So Ive concluded 
that the most  probable  explanation is that these faults were present or developing at the 
point of sale. And this meant the vehicle  wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Im aware from his reply  to my provisional  decision that Mr T thinks  PCF has unreasonably 
delayed the resolution of the complaint. And he feels that as he gave M several  chances  to 
repair his vehicle he should now - in the light of my findings that the vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied - be allowed  to reject it and be returned  to the position he 
was in before acquiring the vehicle.  Ill explain  why Ive reached  a different conclusion.
Mr T first complained  to PCF on or around 22 August 2018. Ive no information to suggest  it 
was aware of any problems with the vehicle before this time.  It arranged  for the vehicle to be 
inspected by A and this took place on 6 September 2018. So I think PCF acted promptly and 
there wasnt any unreasonable delay at this stage.
When it received As report  and later clarification - which indicated the faults probably 
werent present  at the point of supply - it was hardly surprising that PCF should wish to rely 
on it. And it issued a final response letter  on 2 October 2018.  Again I consider this was done  
in a timely manner. And having issued  a final response letter  a business is entitled to see the 
complaints process  through to a conclusion in just the same way as a consumer.
Mr T went ahead and had the vehicle repaired on or around 21 November 2018. I 
understand and respect his reasons for doing  this. But I think  its a relevant consideration in 
reaching my final decision. 
If PCF had upheld Mr Ts complaint when  it was brought  to it in August 2018  Id have 
expected it to have paid for the vehicle to be repaired. At this stage PCF wouldnt have had a 
previous chance  to repair the vehicle as it hadnt  been aware  of the issues.
Similarly, if it had been possible for me to issue a decision when he first brought his case to 
this service in October 2018 Id have expected to reach much the same conclusion.
Where repairs  are to be carried out the CRA  expects them to be done within  a reasonable 
time and without significant inconvenience  to the consumer.  But its inevitable  that some  
inconvenience will occur  where a vehicle experiences a serious fault and theres  a dispute 
about who is responsible for paying the cost of repairs. Here the delay is around three 
months. 
Ref: DRN27728844I dont seek to minimise Mr Ts difficulties  in this time but I dont think  PCF unreasonably 
delayed the process.  It simply took a different view as to who was responsible  for putting 
things right with Mr Ts vehicle.
Its been over a year since the repairs were carried out in November 2018. Mr T has recently 
confirmed the vehicle is in working  order and as of late December 2019 the mileage was 
over 113,000. So it seems that the repairs he arranged and paid for have put things right.
As the vehicle has been successfully repaired, I think its fair and reasonable that the parties  
should, so far as is possible, be restored to the position that wouldve been anticipated at the 
start of the agreement. Namely  that Mr T has a fully functioning vehicle which is subject of 
the regulated  agreement.
In my opinion that requires the refund of the cost of the relevant repairs  and compensation 
for the impaired use of the vehicle.
Looking at the invoice for repairs - which came to £4,479.13 inclusive of VAT - I can see that 
in addition to the repairs Ive already mentioned there were  new brake pads and discs fitted. 
These are serviceable items and so I shant be asking PCF to pay for these. With a vehicle 
of this mileage its to be expected theyd need  replacing. These items and the associated 
labour costs amount to £500.70  inclusive of VAT. So I think its fair and reasonable for this 
amount to be deducted which leaves a balance of £3,978.43.  
In summary,  Im upholding  Mr Ts complaint  and whilst I understand he wont  be wholly 
satisfied at this outcome  I consider it to be a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint.
In the light of his reply  to my provisional decision I would respectfully advise Mr T that he is 
only able to accept  or reject my decision in its entirety. Its not possible to accept or reject  
individual parts.
And my decision - whether accepted or not - brings  to an end this services involvement in 
seeking to bring  an informal  resolution  to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
In full and final settlement  I now require PCF Bank  Limited to take the following action:
1.Refund the cost of repairs  to Mr T in the sum of £3,978.43;
2.Refund two monthly  payments to reflect impaired use;
3.Pay £100 to Mr T for distress and inconvenience  caused.
Ref: DRN27728845In respect of items 1 and 2 above  simple interest  at the rate of 8% per year should be added  
from date of payment  to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2772884