K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999 by post.  Mrs J says MBNA Limited mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
MBNA had to make Mrs J aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding  
the policy to her card. MBNA has sent us a copy of Mrs Js credit  card application form. The 
form had a separate section for PPI with the option  take either accept or decline the policy  
by ticking a yes or no box on the form. The option  to take the policy  has been selected and 
the form has been signed by Mrs J in agreement with the selections have been made. So I 
think MBNA made it clear  that Mrs J didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
MBNA didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs J so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs J got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included sick pay, savings and help from family. But the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to Mrs Js sick pay and for longer. It would also have allowed Mrs J to 
keep any savings she had in place so they could be used towards other expenses.  And 
While Mrs Js family would have wanted to help, their ability  to would have been  dependent 
on their circumstances  at the time, which could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Js circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means MBNA doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN21307322
Ref: DRN2130732