K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss T says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Miss T took out in 1996.  It was 
sold to her in-store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ts case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL should have  taken  reasonable steps to make  it clear the PPI was optional.  Miss T says 
she was told she had to take the PPI to be approved for the store card.  
FICL has provided a copy of Miss Ts application  form.  The form has a section for the PPI 
and applicants have  to tick a box in this section if they wish to take out the policy. The box 
has been ticked on Miss Ts form. Miss T says the form was completed  by the sales 
assistant and that they ticked the box. Ive thought about what Miss T has said,  but I think its 
likely the form has been completed as a result of a discussion  between Miss T and the sale 
advisor. And Miss T wouldve had the opportunity  to review and query anything on the 
application she wasnt sure about  before she signed  it. 
There is also nothing to indicate the policy was compulsory  to Miss T receiving  the store 
credit. So, on balance I think FICL made  it clear  that Miss T didnt have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss T so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Miss T got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
Miss T says she cant remember if she had any employee benefits. But policy wouldve paid 
out alongside any benefits she mightve  had. Miss T didnt have any other means  such  as 
savings  to help her make her repayments if she was too unwell to work or became 
unemployed. So I think it would have been useful for her if something  went  wrong. It also 
Ref: DRN23302192looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Miss T has said, including  what shes  said about 
family members being able to help her out if she couldnt make her card repayments. But 
peoples circumstances  can change. And whilst  I dont doubt that her family  members 
wouldve wanted to help, this help cant be guaranteed. So this point doesnt change  my 
decision. 
Overall, I dont  think Miss T has lost out due to anything  FICL mightve  done  wrong.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.  
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2330219