K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  that Santander UK Plc sent a letter containing their personal data 
to an incorrect address. 
background
Mr and Mrs C had a mortgage  with Santander. They say, following their complaint about 
payment protection insurance, they received notification from another  Santander customer 
who had received their letter in error. Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with this as it contained 
their personal data. 
Mr and Mrs C complained  to Santander. It apologised for the error and acknowledged that 
there had been  a delay in responding, so it offered £50 for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs C werent  happy with its response  so they brought  the complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and she thought Santanders offer was fair. She 
also explained that our service  doesnt decide  if Santander had breached data protection 
laws as thats the role of the Information  Commissioners Office.  
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They thought  the offer wasnt enough compensation based on 
the error  Santander  had made  and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C also sent us a copy of the letter  they received from the other Santander  
customer containing their personal information. The investigator shared this with Santander, 
but it says its position remains the same, so the complaint  has been passed to me. 
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to uphold this complaint. I said:
I understand Mr and Mrs C are concerned that Santander breached the relevant  data 
protection legislation, by sending a letter about their payment protection  insurance to an 
incorrect address. And theyve said its mistake has caused them  upset.
Its important  to explain that this services  role isnt to decide if a business  has breached data 
protection laws.  This is for the Information  Commissioners Office to decide.  But, where a 
business has acknowledged it sent a letter  to the wrong address, I can consider what impact 
this had on a consumer. And, whether  the business should pay compensation for the trouble 
and upset its actions  have caused as a result.
Santander has agreed to pay an amount  of £50 compensation to Mr and Mrs C for sending 
the letter to the wrong address and for its delay in responding. So, in this case, I need  to 
decide whether  Santander acted fairly or not in the compensation it has offered to pay 
Mr and Mrs C, and whether it needs  to do any more. 
Mr and Mrs C have provided  us with a copy of the letter sent to the other Santander 
customer containing their personal information. This information included their address, 
account number,  salary and place of work  at the time of taking out their mortgage.  
Ref: DRN20844002Santander says it based its offer of £50 on Mr and Mrs Cs testimony and without seeing  any 
documentation, so it doesnt need to do any more. After seeing  the documentation  which  we 
shared with Santander, it says its position remains the same and it didnt give any further 
reasons. 
Taking into account the individual  circumstances of this complaint, I think a document  being 
sent to the wrong address  which contained that amount of personal information  about 
Mr and Mrs C would  understandably cause them worry. So I think Santander should pay an 
additional £50 for the trouble and upset caused.  I feel this is a fair amount when considering 
the type of personal information  disclosed and the level of impact which in this case was 
worry and upset caused to Mr and Mrs C. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Both Santander and Mr and Mrs C confirmed receipt but didnt have any further points to 
add. But Mr and Mrs C raised  a question about  whether  the level of compensation would be 
the same  whoever the complainant was. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  compensation for trouble and upset, we look at the individual  
circumstances of each  complaint  and the impact  on the individuals  concerned  which in this 
case are Mr and Mrs C. 
Taking everything into consideration and as no further points have been raised by either 
party, Ive no reason to change  my mind from my provisional decision.  For the reasons  Ive 
given in my provisional  findings I uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
I require Santander  UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs C an additional £50 compensation, for the 
trouble and upset  caused, so the total amount paid to Mr and Mrs C is £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2084400