K822xComplaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the response of Shawbrook  Bank Limited (Shawbrook), following a 
claim against in under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974.
Background 
I issued a provisional decision in July 2020  concluding that Mrs Bs complaint should be 
upheld. I also set out what Shawbrook should do to put things right.  I attach a redacted 
version of my provisional decision which forms part of this final decision.
I invited further comments  from both parties  before  I reconsidered the complaint for a final 
time. Both Mrs B and Shawbrook accepted my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  overall  conclusions as set out in my provisional  
decision. Both parties have agreed to what I require Shawbrook to do to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. In full and final settlement of it, Shawbrook 
Bank Limited  must:
1.Refund the extra £51.94 paid each month with the Shawbrook loan  £207.76
2.Add simple interest* from the date of each payment until Mrs B receives her refund
3.Refund the extra Mrs B paid with the Loan  2 - £2,759.52
4.Add simple interest* from the date of each payment until Mrs B receives her refund
5.Pay Mrs B £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much it has taken off. If should also 
give Mrs B a certificate showing this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN21989872Provisional decision
Complaint
Mrs B is unhappy  with the response of Shawbrook Bank  Limited (Shawbrook), following a claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1972 (CCA).
Background
Mrs B was contacted by a company, Ill refer to it as H, that supplied  and installed solar panel systems.  
Following a sales meeting,  Mrs B agreed to enter  into a contract  with H for it to supply  and install a solar panel 
system at her home. To pay for the system,  Mrs B also agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement 
with Shawbrook. 
Mrs B made  a claim under  Section 75 (s75) of the CCA via her representative. The representative said that H 
had told Mrs B that the solar panels would be self-funded and that the monthly loan repayments would be more 
than off-set by the feed-in-tariff  (FIT) income. But that hadnt  happened. Instead,  the monthly loan repayments 
had been  much higher  than the income Mrs B had received.
In its final response  letter, Shawbrook  said it didnt  think that the benefits of the solar panel system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs B. Unhappy with this response, Mrs B referred her complaint to this service.
Following our involvement,  Shawbrook  made an offer to resolve Mrs Bs complaint. It said it had had worked out 
the potential  savings and income  to Mrs B from her solar panel system over the term of the loan. It offered to 
restructure the loan so that she wouldnt pay any more than this over the 10 year term of the loan. It also offered 
Mrs B £100  for the trouble  and upset caused. 
Mrs B, via her representative, didnt accept the offer.  The representative  said that Mrs B had refinanced  the 
Shawbrook loan when she realised it wasnt self-funding. She did this as she was able to secure a lower interest 
rate. At the same time as refinancing the Shawbrook loan,  Mrs B also borrowed some additional funds. The 
representative said that Shawbrook should also refund  Mrs B the interest she was charged on her new loan that 
related to the amount borrowed  to settle the Shawbrook loan.  
One of our investigators  looked  into the complaint. She though  that in addition to its offer to make the solar  panel 
system self-funding over the 10 year term of the loan,  Shawbrook should also refund  the interest charged on the 
new loan that related to the amount borrowed to settle the Shawbrook loan. She also thought  Shawbrook should 
pay Mrs B £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Shawbrook didnt accept the investigators views. In summary it said:
It thought its current offer was fair as it would make the solar panel system  self-funding  based  on the 
amount that Mrs B borrowed  when  she took the loan out.
It didnt think it should  compensate  Mrs B for the interest she was charged  on the new loan as it couldnt 
be held liable for any decision Mrs B made after the entered into the contract  for the fixed sum loan 
agreement.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been  passed  to me to review.
My provisional  findings
Ive considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.   
Mrs B says that she was cold-called by H and during a subsequent sales meeting  told that the solar  panels would 
be entirely  self-financing.  Neither  Shawbrook nor Mrs B dispute that H misrepresented the benefits  of the solar 
panel system  and as a result this decision will deal with what I consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service  is to help settle disputes  between  consumers and businesses providing financial services 
fairly and reasonably with minimum  formality. My role is to arrive  at a fair and reasonable outcome  taking  account  
of the particular  circumstances. 
Ive considered  whether it would be fair and reasonable for Mrs B to be put back  in the position she wouldve  
been in if there had been  no misrepresentation. However, here I dont  think it would  be fair or proportionate to 
Ref: DRN21989873arrange for the removal of the solar panel system from her home. I think  a fair outcome here is to put Mrs B in a 
position where her solar  panel  system is self-funding  over the original term of the loan. By allowing Mr B to keep  
the panels,  Im satisfied that she will likely  benefit  from lower electricity bills and FIT payments  going forward.  
Shawbrooks current offer is to make Mrs Bs solar panel system self-funding over the original term of the loan. 
To do this, it has calculated the expected income and savings to her over the original term of the loan and has 
said it will restructure the loan so she would pay no more  than this over the 10 year term. Usually, I would  
consider this to be fair and reasonable as it would mean that the system would  be cost neutral  to Mrs B over the 
term of the loan.
Shawbrook has calculated that the income and savings  that Mrs B will make over the 10 year fixed  sum loan 
agreement will be £6,378.54.  It has said that Mrs B paid a total of £8,526.62 towards her solar panel system and 
will refund her the difference plus compensatory  interest at 8% to recognise  where she has been deprived of her 
money. 
However, here Im not satisfied  that this provides a fair and reasonable outcome. Mrs B has said that when  she 
realised that her solar panel  system wasnt self-funding  she decided to refinance  the Shawbrook loan to a lower 
interest rate to reduce her losses. By not taking  into account the refinanced loan and associated interest, Mrs B 
will have ended up paying more  than the overall income and savings that Shawbrook said that she will receive. 
Therefore, her solar panel system will not be cost neutral as she will end up paying more than the expected 
savings and income over the 10 year loan term. So, the current offer from Shawbrook doesnt make Mrs Bs solar 
panel system  self-funding  and therefore, I dont  consider it to be fair.
Shawbrook has said it cant be liable for the impact of Mrs Bs decision to refinance her loan.  I disagree. Mrs B 
refinanced her Shawbrook loan to a lower interest rate and I would consider this to be a reasonable decision for a 
consumer to make. I think, on the balance of probabilities, Mrs B decided to refinance her Shawbrook loan as it 
was clear that the financial benefit she was receiving from her solar  panels werent sufficient to meet her 
contractual monthly loan repayments. Therefore, she was trying  to reduce her losses  by refinancing  to a different 
loan provider at a lower  interest rate. 
As Shawbrook has already accepted  that it was the misrepresentations made by H to Mrs B that the solar panel 
system would  be self-funding that induced her into entering the contract  with H, Im satisfied that it is liable for 
the additional costs  Mrs B incurred by trying to reduce  her losses, by borrowing money elsewhere to refinance  
her Shawbrook loan.
For the reasons Ive given above Im satisfied  that Shawbrook should take into account Mrs Bs refinanced  loan 
when calculating its offer to make Mrs Bs solar  panel  system  self-funding. Ill now move on to what I consider to 
be fair compensation.
Fair compensation
Ive reviewed  the figures that Shawbrook  has provided  to this service. It has said that Mrs B paid a lump sum of 
£8,106.26 to settle the loan and four monthly payments  of £105.09 (£420.36).  This gives the total of £8,526.62 
(£8,106.26 + £420.36). Ive set out below the approach  Shawbrook should  follow  to reach an outcome that I 
consider to be fair and reasonable.
Mrs B borrowed  £12,610.80 (including any other  fees and interest) to pay for the solar panels.
Mrs B made 4 payments of £105.09 to repay this loan (the Shawbrook  loan).
Shawbrook has calculated that the total achievable  benefit  of the system  over the 10 year term of the loan is 
£6,378.54. The monthly benefit Mrs B should  have  expected to receive is £53.15 (£6,378.54 divided by 120).
This means Mrs B paid an extra £51.94 (£105.09 minus  £53.15)  when she made her Shawbrook loan 
repayments - £207.76  in total. Shawbrook needs  to refund this with simple  interest  at 8% per year from the 
date of each payment until the date of settlement  to compensate  Mrs B for being out of pocket.
Mrs B refinanced her Shawbrook loan with another loan (Loan 2). She borrowed £8,925.46 (including any 
other fees and interest) to refinance the Shawbrook loan.
The term of Loan 2 is four years (48 months).
To repay Loan 2, Mrs B has to pay £185.95 every month  (£8,925.46 divided by 48).
When whats left of the total achievable benefit is adjusted  to reflect the term of Loan  2, the monthly benefit 
is £128.46. (The total achievable benefit is £6,378.54. £212.60 (£53.15 multiplied by 4) has been already 
been accounted for, which means £6,165.94 is left. The term of Loan 2 is 48 months  £6,165.94 divided by 
48 is £128.46.)
Ref: DRN21989874This means Mrs B paid an extra £57.49 when  she made her Loan 2 payments   so, assuming Mrs B made 
her contractual payments, shes paid an extra £2,759.52 in total with Loan 2. Shawbrook needs to refund this 
with simple  interest at 8% per year from the date of each payment until Mrs B receives her refund, to 
compensate her for being out of pocket.
In simple terms, to put things right Shawbrook needs to:
1.Refund the extra £51.94 paid each month  with the Shawbrook loan  £207.76
2.Add simple interest from the date of each  payment until Mrs B receives her refund
3.Refund the extra Mrs B paid with the Loan 2 - £2,759.52
4.Add simple interest from the date of each  payment until Mrs B receives her refund
My understanding, from reviewing the paperwork that was provided, is that Mrs Bs refinanced  loan has now 
reached the end of its term. 
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs B first contacted Shawbrook that 
means her claim should have been upheld. The fact that this didnt happen undoubtedly caused her trouble and 
upset and consequently Ill make an aware of £100 to reflect  this.
My provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions I should receive from either party by 29 August  2020, my provisional decision 
is that this complaint should be upheld.
In full and final settlement of it, Im minded to require Shawbrook Bank Limited to:
allow  Mrs B to keep the solar panels,
follow  the approach I have described under the heading Fair compensation  to calculate the refund Mrs 
B is entitled to,
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date of the payment until the date of the 
settlement; and,
pay Mrs B £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much it has taken off. If should also give Mrs B a certificate showing this, if 
she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2198987