K820x#14Complaint
Miss B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, have  taken  responsibility  for the sale.  To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
Background
Miss B was sold the PPI in 2003  over the phone,  a couple of months after taking  out a store  
card. It covered her in case she was off work  sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Miss Bs store card application  offered  her the option to take PPI. At that point, she didnt 
choose it and her card was approved  without  PPI. She had use of the card for some time 
before being sold PPI over the phone, which wouldve indicated  to her that she didnt have to 
have it. Because  of all the time thats  passed, neither side still have a recording of the call or 
the paperwork Miss B mightve been sent.  But from what Ive seen of the telephone sales 
process FICL used  around the time of Miss Bs sale, they wouldve made  it clear  the PPI 
was optional and given her the choice to take it or turn it down. So I think  its most likely  that 
FICL made Miss B aware she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she chose to take 
it at the time  though  I can understand  if she no longer recalls doing so after so long.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss B, so they didnt  have  to check  if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Miss B enough  information to decide  if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Miss B about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. Here, it looks like Miss B was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of 
the main things it didnt  cover. She didnt have any other cover in case  she was off sick or 
lost her job, so the policy couldve been useful for Miss B in case  something went wrong. 
And the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly  basis, so Miss B could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall,  I dont  think that better information was likely to have put her off 
taking out the policy.
Lastly, Miss B said she may have been able to claim on the policy, but didnt. It may still be 
possible for Miss B to make a back-dated claim on the PPI. If shed like to do that, she 
should get back in touch  with FICL.  Then if Miss B has any issues making  the back-dated 
claim, she may be able to bring that to our service  as a separate  case.
Ref: DRN25494642My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Bs complaint about the sale of this 
PPI policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2549464