K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that Santander UK Plcs failure to make  a payment to a family member 
within a certain timescale meant that the family member lost out on a bonus payment in to 
her account.
Mrs T wants Santander  to pay more compensation than it has so far paid.
background
Mrs T made a payment from her Santander  current account to a Lifetime ISA held by a 
family member at a different business.
Mrs T says that Santander  told her that the payment would credit the ISA before midnight on 
the same  day. This was important  to Mrs T and the family member as the payment needed 
to reach  the ISA before the end of the tax year in order to qualify for the bonus.
The payment didnt reach the ISA account  until the next day. Mrs T says that this meant her 
family member lost out.
Before this service became involved, Santander  agreed that the advisor gave Mrs T the 
wrong information and offered to pay £20 compensation.
The adjudicator thought  that Santander  should  pay Mrs T more  than it had paid so far. The 
adjudicator recommended  that Santander  pay an additional  £80 to reflect  the distress and 
inconvenience that Mrs T had sustained.
Mrs T isnt willing to accept the adjudicators recommendation as she says it doesnt 
adequately reflect the loss sustained  by the family member.
Santander doesnt consider that its fair to require it to make an additional payment to Mrs T.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators recommendation.
I appreciate Mrs Ts sense of frustration  that Santander gave her the wrong  information  
when she called. However, Mrs T had already made the payment when she contacted 
Santander and she had chosen  to make the payment on a certain  date rather than 
immediately. 
There is always the possibility that a faster payment wont go through until the next working 
day. This means  that I cant say that Santander  made a mistake in terms of processing    
Mrs Ts payment. 
Even if I was to have  decided that Santander made  a mistake  in processing the payment, it 
was the family member  who lost out on the bonus payment  not Mrs T. So I cant  
reasonably require Santander  to compensate Mrs T for a loss that she didnt personally 
suffer.
Ref: DRN24406732Overall, I consider the adjudicators recommendation that Santander should  pay Mrs T a 
total of £100 is fair and reasonable. I think this payment  better reflects  the upset and distress 
that Mrs T suffered as a result of disappointing her family  member.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mrs Ts complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I require 
Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs T a total of £100. For the avoidance of doubt,  if Santander has 
already paid Mrs T £20, it will then need to make a further payment of £80. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2440673