K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that Santander  UK Plc gave him incorrect advice about cash withdrawals 
abroad.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 24 January 2020, a copy of which is attached  as it forms 
part of this final decision. Santander didnt have any further comments to make.  But Mr L has 
provided further information, so Ive looked at that carefully and considered everything again.
In relation to the conversation Mr L had in the branch before he went abroad,  he says there  
was no misunderstanding.  He says he made it very clear that he wanted to withdraw  the 
cash while he was abroad and that he had no reason to ask about  withdrawing cash in the 
UK. He says its most  likely  that the branch  advisor  told him he could withdraw  £10,000 each 
day while he was abroad but has since denied saying so. Mr L points  to the fact that he 
asked for a note to be placed on his account  about the intended  withdrawals and asks why 
he would  make this up. Mr L also points out that in each phone call he made to Santander, 
he told them  he was phoning  from abroad.
Mr L has provided details  of the original property he wanted to buy. Hes also explained how 
property purchases work in the country where he was buying. He says its a much quicker 
and more straightforward process than in the UK. 
I said in my provisional decision that I thought  Mr L would have travelled abroad in 
November 2018  anyway, because hed booked the flight before the mortgage was approved. 
But Mr L says he travelled there specifically to buy this property and for no other reason. He 
says his mortgage broker had told him there  should be no problems with the loan, so he 
went ahead  and booked  the flight.
I said in my provisional decision that Santander  have already paid compensation of £25 to 
Mr L. But Mr L says he hasnt accepted any compensation from Santander.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at everything again in light of 
the new information Mr L has provided.  And Ive considered all his comments  carefully. I 
know Mr L feels strongly about the situation so will find my decision  disappointing. But I 
havent seen anything which changes my mind  about the outcome of this complaint.  Ill 
explain why.
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr L told the branch advisor that he wanted to withdraw cash  
abroad. As I said in my provisional decision, Mr L has been  consistent about what he wanted 
to do. But that doesnt  mean the branch advisor fully appreciated the facts. In the same  way, 
I found when I listened  to the phone calls that Mr L had told each person he spoke to that he 
was calling from abroad. But the first two agents  still didnt seem  to realise that, and as a 
result there was confusion  about what Mr L wanted.
I know Mr L thinks that Santander arent being  straightforward about the conversations  which 
took place, and that they may have withheld or altered  information  about those 
conversations. I havent seen any evidence of that. I can only make a decision  based  on the 
Ref: DRN26472382information available to me. Whats apparent is that both the parties  feel strongly  about  the 
information they provided at the time. So I still find it most likely that this is a case  of mis-
communication in the sense that Mr L and the branch advisor were talking at cross-
purposes. I havent  seen anything which suggests the fault for that lies with either  party. So I 
cant fairly conclude  that it was Santanders fault or that they gave Mr L incorrect information, 
based upon what they thought he was asking.  
As to the adverse  consequences Mr L says hes suffered as a result  of what  the branch 
advisor told him, I cant safely conclude that they were caused by Santander. Ive looked  at 
the information from Mr L about  the property and his contact with the mortgage broker. But it 
doesnt demonstrate that Mr L was committed to buying the original property or the reason 
why the sale to him fell through. And what Mr L has said confirms  that he booked the flight  
before the mortgage had been concluded and before his visit to the branch.  So Im still not 
satisfied that Mr L made the trip in reliance on anything said by Santander. And I cant  fairly 
conclude that theyre  responsible for the losses he says hes suffered.
In relation to the phone calls, I think the compensation  of £100 in total offered by Santander  
is fair. Mr L says he hasnt already accepted £25. But Santander have confirmed that £25 
was credited to Mr Ls account in December 2018  and, from the information  Ive seen, Im 
satisfied thats  the case. So Santander  should  pay Mr L a further  £75. But I dont think  they 
need to do any more here.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, and as set out in my provisional decision (attached  below), I uphold 
this complaint in part. Santander UK Plc should now pay to Mr L the sum of £75.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26472383copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr L complains  that Santander UK Plc gave him incorrect advice about  cash  withdrawals abroad.
background
Mr L says that, in 2018, he travelled abroad and found a property he wanted to buy. He returned to 
the UK and re-mortgaged his UK home in order to fund the overseas  purchase. The mortgage was 
granted by a third party  bank.
Mr L says he knew he would need to pay for the property with cash. He says he travelled abroad 
again in November 2018 to make the purchase. A couple of days  before he was due to leave the UK, 
Mr L says he went into his local branch of Santander to check  that he would be able to withdraw the 
cash from his account while he was abroad.  He says he was told in the branch that he could withdraw  
£10,000 in cash each day. The purchase price of the property was around £50,000, so Mr L says he 
thought he would be able to withdraw the cash he needed over five days. Mr L says the branch  
advisor referred him to the cashier to put a note on his account saying that he would be doing this.
A few days after he arrived abroad, the mortgage funds were transferred into Mr Ls Santander 
account. Mr L says he tried to make  a cash withdrawal but the request was declined. He says he tried 
again, unsuccessfully, several  times.  He made some phone calls to Santander  in the UK. There  was 
some confusion on the calls but, in the end, Mr L was told he could  only withdraw £1,500 in cash  each 
day while he was abroad. 
Mr L says that, as a result, he couldnt buy the property he wanted because he couldnt  access  his 
funds. He says it was sold to another buyer and that he had a wasted trip. 
When he came back to the UK, Mr L went back into the Santander branch and says he spoke to the 
same advisor.  He says he then spoke to another member of staff who told him that what  hed wanted  
to do wouldnt have been possible because of restrictions and embargoes concerning  the country 
hed visited. Mr L raised a complaint with Santander.
He said he was given incorrect information by the branch advisor before his trip. He said this meant 
the time and money  he spent on his trip were wasted and he missed  out on the property he wanted to 
buy. 
Santander paid Mr L £25 as a gesture of goodwill. He wasnt happy  with their response, so he brought 
his complaint to this service.  At that stage,  Santander  reviewed the complaint and offered a further 
goodwill gesture of £75. That was on the basis that theyd misunderstood Mr Ls query when  he 
phoned them from abroad. And they recognised  that hed made two long distance phone calls. But 
Santander werent  willing  to do any more because they say they didnt  give Mr L the wrong  
information.
Mr L wasnt happy with Santanders offer.  He says hed re-mortgaged his UK home  to buy the 
property abroad. Because he missed out on the one hed wanted,  he says he had to fly abroad a 
second time to buy a different property. This meant he had to pay for another flight as well as 
expenses while staying abroad. And he had to take more time off work. Mr L says the situation has 
had a serious impact  on his health and has been very stressful. He feels very strongly  that this is all 
the result of Santander giving  him incorrect information. He wants them to reimburse him for the cost 
of both his flights and accommodation. And he thinks they should pay him compensation  for the effect  
on his health and the loss of two weeks holiday.
When our adjudicator looked into it, he thought Santanders  offer of £100 in total was fair so he didnt 
ask them to do any more.  But Mr L didnt  accept  the adjudicators findings and asked for his complaint  
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN26472384my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The issue at the heart of this complaint is whether or not Santander told Mr L that he would be able to 
withdraw £10,000  each day while he was abroad. Mr L says they did. Santander say they didnt. 
Because the evidence around this issue isnt particularly extensive or conclusive,  Ive had to reach  my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely  to have happened,  in 
light of the evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr L remembers the date he went into the branch to ask about  the cash withdrawals. He doesnt 
know the name of the member of staff he spoke  to, but he clearly recalls the person and is able to 
describe him. He says he also spoke to a cashier, to ask them to place a note on his account  saying 
that he would be making the withdrawals.
Ive listened to the calls Mr L made to Santander while he was abroad. Although there was confusion 
on Santanders part about what Mr L wanted to do, Mr Ls position is consistent on each call. He told 
each of the agents he spoke  to over the phone that hed been told in branch that he could  take out 
£10,000 each day.
And Mr L says that the only reason he transferred the mortgage money  to his Santander account was 
so that he could withdraw it in cash. He says he wouldnt  have put the money into his Santander 
account if hed known he wouldnt be able to access it while he was abroad.  The reason  he went  into 
the branch was to check he would be able to do this. Hes been consistent in saying  that Santander 
told him he could withdraw £10,000 each  day. And Mr L is adamant that this is what  he was told. 
Santander accept that a conversation took place in branch between  Mr L and one of their advisors. 
But they dispute that Mr L was told he could withdraw that amount of cash  abroad.  Ive asked 
Santander for a statement  from the advisor Mr L spoke to. They say he was an experienced  personal 
banker. But he no longer  works for Santander so it isnt possible to ask him for his recollection of the 
conversation. But the branch  manager who dealt with the complaint recalls speaking  to the advisor  at 
the time. The manager  says the advisor didnt tell Mr L he would  be able to withdraw £10,000 each 
day while he was abroad. 
The manager  says that no advisor would  tell a customer they could  withdraw that much cash  per day 
abroad, especially  not in the country Mr L was visiting. I dont  find that evidence to be conclusive on 
the point. But I accept its unlikely that an experienced personal banker would think  it would be 
possible to withdraw that much cash abroad, especially  in the country in question.  And the call 
handler Mr L spoke to from abroad was able to confirm straight  away that the daily withdrawal limit 
while Mr L was abroad was just £300 (which he then obtained approval  to increase to £1,500).
Where theres conflicting  evidence about a conversation which took place, Id usually expect  to find 
some more information  in the banks records which helps to shed some light on the issue.  Ive looked  
at all the information  Santander  have provided. But I havent seen  anything  which confirms  what  was 
said, one way or the other. Mr L says he asked a cashier to put a note on his account about the 
withdrawals. But there is no such note on his account.
On the evidence  available  to me, I cant fairly  conclude that Santander told Mr L that he would be able 
to withdraw £10,000 per day in the country he was visiting. On balance,  I think  its most likely  that 
there were some crossed wires between the branch advisor and Mr L during their conversation. Mr L 
is adamant he was told the specific figure of £10,000 when he asked about the daily cash  withdrawal 
limit. Santander say thats the daily limit in the UK. So its possible the branch advisor didnt 
appreciate that Mr L would  be abroad when  he wanted to make the withdrawal.
Ref: DRN26472385Ive listened to three calls Mr L made to Santander while  he was abroad.  In the first two calls,  the 
agents didnt seem  to realise that Mr L was abroad, even though hed told them where he was. The 
first agent arranged  to send internet / telephone banking  details to Mr Ls address  in the UK, thinking  
he wanted to set up a new payee for a bill payment.  And the second agent didnt  seem to realise Mr L 
was calling  from abroad and gave advice  as though  he was in the UK. So I think  its possible  that, in 
the same way, the branch  advisor also hadnt appreciated the full facts.
In any event, Im not satisfied that Santander are responsible  for the losses Mr L is claiming.  He says 
his trip abroad was wasted because he wasnt able to buy the property. But the information Ive seen 
indicates he would have made the trip anyway. I say that because  Mr L had already booked  his flights  
around two weeks before his visit to the branch and before the mortgage had been completed. So he 
cant have booked the flights in reliance  on anything  said by the Santander branch  advisor. And even 
if hed managed to buy the property, it couldnt  have  happened until the very end of his trip. Thats  
because Mr L was due to fly home around six days after he first attempted to withdraw  cash. So I 
cant conclude that the trip was wasted.
Mr L says that, if hed known he wouldnt be able to withdraw the cash  from his Santander  account, 
he would have withdrawn  it directly from his account with the mortgage provider and taken it with him 
on his trip. This is what he ended up doing a couple of months later when he managed to buy a 
different property. But Mr L wouldnt have been able to take the cash with him on his November trip. 
Thats because the information Ive seen indicates that the mortgage money wasnt released to him 
until after hed left the UK  around  nine days into his trip.
I havent seen any information about the property Mr L planned to buy or confirmation that he would 
have managed to buy it even if his funds were accessible. But I understand he bought  a different 
property around two months later. For the reasons above, I cant  safely  conclude  that Mr L was 
wrongly informed by Santander before his trip, or that its their fault he missed out on the property in 
November.
I do think Santander  could  have  handled Mr Ls calls better. I understand  theyve already  paid him 
£25 for that. And theyve offered a further  £75. I think the total amount of £100 is fair in the 
circumstances. But I dont think  that Santander need to do more  here.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties, I intend to 
uphold this complaint in part and direct Santander UK Plc to pay the sum of £75 to Mr L.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2647238