K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains American Express Services Europe  Limited (AESEL) held a credit balance  
on his account  since June 2008 and he wants it to return the money to him plus interest.
background
Mr F discovered there  was a credit balance of £8.35  on his American Express  account. 
When he asked it to refund the money plus interest it said itd sent him a cheque  (which he 
said he hadnt received)  but it wouldnt pay him any interest.
American Express said itd sent Mr Fs cheque  to a previous address by mistake. It 
apologised and said it would  refund  the credit balance plus interest from 10 July 2018 which 
was the date Mr F had requested the refund.
The adjudicator didnt think American  Express should do anything more. He thought  a credit 
card account  wasnt the same as a savings account. So interest  wouldnt be applied on any 
credit balances. So he concluded the offer from American Express was a fair one.
Mr F didnt  agree and said American  Express should  pay interest from the date it closed his 
account. He said it had every opportunity to refund him the money in July 2008 and hadnt 
made any effort to contact him to tell him hed overpaid. He only found out about the credit 
balance last year and since then has had to keep chasing it for his refund.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons.  And theres very little I can add.
Our rules usually prevent us from looking into events that happened more  than six years 
ago. So its very difficult  for me to say what did or didnt happen when a credit  balance was 
left on Mr Fs account. But I think he shouldve reasonably been aware about his account 
status so it seems to me American  Express didnt have a duty to notify him about  the credit  
balance. 
Mr F asked  for a refund  in July 2018. American  Express sent his cheque  to the wrong  
address. Its apologised and said it would reissue the cheque plus 8% interest from 10 July 
2018. I know Mr F wont agree with me but I think thats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN22202322my final decision
My decision  is that American  Express Services Europe Limited  (AESEL) should refund Mr F 
£8.35 plus 8% interest from 10 July 2018 to the date of settlement.  
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2220232