K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) declined  her claim for a gastric  bypass 
at a particular  hospital when shed  previously been under the impression that it had been 
approved. As a result, she feels shes been  discriminated  against.
background
On 9 August  2018, Mrs M set up a claim online with Vitality to see if itd cover the costs of a 
gastric bypass procedure.  Mrs M was then asked  to phone Vitality to discuss  this. 
During the call, Vitality  said the claim itself was eligible and it was something  itd look to 
cover. It explained it needed Mrs M to get a referral letter from her GP. The call handler 
mentioned this could  be to a particular consultant or specialist at a private hospital local to 
your area. He went on to explain that, once thatd been done, Vitality would review it and 
check the information to take it forward. 
It wasnt until Mrs M contacted Vitality at the end of August as she hadnt heard back after 
sending the GPs referral  letter  that she became aware of a problem. Vitality told Mrs M that 
she could have the surgery with 75% of the costs being covered by Vitality but this would 
only be through a particular  provider,  S. And the only location where the surgery could be 
done with S was in London.
Mrs M asked  Vitality  to either refer her to a hospital  closer to where she lives in Scotland  or 
to cover 75% of the cost of the surgery at R, just like it wouldve if shed gone  through  S. She 
told Vitality that she had the surgery booked for 15 October and had already attended a 
number of pre-operative appointments and tests at R.
Vitality explained  that it wouldnt change its decision  the claim had to be made through S 
and the only hospital to be referred to for the surgery through S is in London.
Mrs M wasnt happy with this and raised  a complaint. But Vitality still declined to pay for the 
gastric bypass at R. 
Even though  Vitality  refused  to cover the procedure, she went  ahead paying for it herself. 
She says she could not have gone  through with the operation if she had to go to London as 
there have  been  a significant number of pre and post-operative appointments which  she 
wouldnt have been able to go to if theyd  been  in London. She feels shes  been  indirectly  
discriminated against for being Scottish  and not living in or near London. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. To put things right, she wants Vitality to 
compensate her for the cost of the procedure  at R in the way it wouldve if itd been done  
through S and believes they charge a similar amount.
Our investigator looked into matters and felt that, although Vitality  shouldve told Mrs M 
sooner than it did that the procedure wouldnt be covered, it had accepted this and took 
steps to put things right. These steps  included the following:
1.apologised to Mrs M. 
2.offered to refer her to S for the surgery where shed be covered for 75% of the costs.
3.offered to reimburse Mrs M for any costs  shed incurred from 9 August to 31 August 
2018 subject to seeing receipted invoices.
Ref: DRN21686002Taking all of the above into account, she felt Vitality  had dealt with this matter fairly and 
reasonably to put things right. So she didnt ask Vitality to do anything more. She also 
thought that the terms and conditions of Mrs Ms policy were clear about  how gastric bypass 
operations are covered by Vitality. It says,
The consultant group nominated by us will make the arrangements for treatment at a 
facility near you, where possible. Some facilities may be close to where you live but 
gastric banding  and bypass may only be available at one site in London.
Finally, our investigator also explained to Mrs M that whether a breach of the Equality Act 
had occurred wouldnt be a finding our service  can make. 
Mrs M was unhappy with our investigators  view. She says she feels  so strongly about this 
injustice, and cannot simply accept that Vitality can act in this way. And when she took out 
the policy several years ago, she didnt have any intention of having a gastric  bypass and so 
hadnt considered whether it was covered. Even so, she had no say in where the policy  was 
actually purchased.
Mrs M says it was only when it was confirmed that it was covered by Vitality  did she allow  
herself to get excited  and make the decision to go ahead and have the operation. And, 
having made the decision to go ahead,  it was something she wouldve found  very difficult 
and detrimental  to her mental health to go back on. Mrs M explained that she suffers  very 
badly with depression and anxiety.  As a result,  she had the operation  at a cost of £11,200. 
The matter  has now been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Having done so, I have to tell Mrs M that I think the investigator has reached the right 
outcome here. And I think she set out the position  clearly about why she didnt feel Vitality  
needed to do anything more to put things right. So theres not much I feel I can usefully add 
to what has already been said.
In this matter, I have to decide whether Vitality can require Mrs M to use S as a provider for 
gastric bypass surgery even though  its based  out of only one location which is very far from 
her home. And, if it was able to do this, then I need  to go on to consider if the actions Vitality 
took in this matter  are fair and reasonable.
As explained by the investigator, I think Vitalitys use of S in relation to gastric  bypass  
surgery is set out clearly in the policies terms and conditions, including stating that the 
surgery may only take place at one location  in London. And I think that Vitality  has applied  
these terms fairly in this particular case.  
Whilst I accept  this level of detail is in the terms and conditions and isnt included in the 
policy summary, I wouldnt expect Vitality to include all details  in the summary for the very 
reason that it is just that, a summary.  Even so, I think that if someone was considering this 
Ref: DRN21686003surgery, I dont think itd be unfair or unreasonable to expect  them to also look to the terms 
and conditions for the remaining details  about  the cover.
Having said this, Ive thought about whether the actions Vitality took to put things right in this 
matter are fair and reasonable.
Vitality accepts it couldve told Mrs M sooner  than it did that it wouldnt cover  the procedure  
she was having  other  than through S. And that this meant she wouldnt be able to have the 
surgery at R or any other hospital local to her. But I think its important to keep in mind that 
any medical claim under private medical  insurance would need to be assessed in the usual 
way. Although a claim is potentially be eligible,  theres always a chance that it might not be 
approved by the health insurance provider for a number  of reasons. And I think Vitality  was 
clear that the procedure  wasnt  being approved during the first call with Mrs M.
As a service,  our awards are designed to compensate consumers, not punish organisations. 
We look at the impact any mistakes have  had on the consumer concerned.  I can see from 
what has been said by Mrs M how concerned she has been by this. But I think Vitality took 
this matter seriously and took steps to reduce  the impact of its lack of clarity.  It apologised to 
Mrs M and offered to cover the costs  that Mrs M had already incurred or would be liable for 
up to the point shed been told that she couldnt  have  the surgery  at R.
Although Mrs M decided to go ahead  with the procedure, it was an option for her to have it in 
London or cancel  it knowing that she wouldnt have been out of pocket. And I believe this is 
a fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Whilst I appreciate she says that she only made  the decision  to go ahead with the surgery 
once shed been told itd be covered, I do feel its fair to balance this with what  she said in an 
email to Vitality with her GP referral  letter  where  she mentioned that she was going  to self-
fund as the NHS wouldnt cover her. 
I know Mrs M will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings  to an end what  
we  in trying to informally resolve her dispute  with Vitality  can do for her. 
Finally, Im not ignoring the fact that Mrs M has told us that she feels Vitality are in breach of 
the Equality Act. She says they have  indirectly  discriminated against  her and others like her 
who dont live in or near London, which is where S offers gastric bypass surgery where 75% 
of the costs are covered  by Vitality.  But my role is to consider whether Vitality have acted 
fairly and reasonably in its handling of Mrs Ms claim in this matter.  And I think it has for the 
reasons set out above.
Having said this, I think its important  to explain that were an informal dispute resolution 
service and its not my role to determine  if there  has been a breach of the Equality Act. That 
would be for a court to decide. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against 
Vitality PPP Healthcare Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Ref: DRN21686004Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2168600