K820x#14Complaint
This complaints about a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1991. Mr and Mrs F say National & Provincial  Building Society, now known as Santander UK 
Plc, mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
Ill refer only to Santander as the seller in this decision.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Given the time thats passed, its understandable that the available  informations limited.  But, 
from what Ive seen,  I cant  fairly  say that Santander  suggested Mr and Mrs F had to have 
the PPI if they wanted the mortgage as theyve argued. Theres  nothing  to suggest they 
werent told the PPI was optional or that they didnt  agree to take it.
In saying that, Ive taken  into account a sample mortgage application form and sample PPI 
application form Santanders provided from 1991 and 1990 respectively. These indicate to 
me that Mr and Mrs F had to tick relevant boxes on the mortgage  application  form if they 
wanted PPI and would then have  been  asked to complete and sign a separate form to 
continue with their application for PPI. I cant see anything in how either  of these documents 
was worded to suggest the PPI was in any way compulsory or would help with the mortgage 
application. 
From experience, its likely Santander  recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F so it had to 
check that the PPI was right for them   and based  on what  Ive seen of their circumstances 
at the time, I think that it was. For example, they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to, 
or limits on, the PPI cover. And they seem  to have had a need for the cover despite having  
some other means  such as enhanced sick pay from their respective employers  of 
meeting their monthly  repayments  for a time if either  of them wasnt working.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But I think it likely they chose  to take it out  so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr and Mrs F have  lost out because of how 
Santander sold them the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN27133612Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2713361