K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs H bought the policy in 1997 in connection with a store  card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint  and Ive set out my reasons below:
Mrs H says she took out the PPI over the phone,  and that she was told it was 
compulsory. But FICL  has provided  a copy of Mrs Hs store card application form 
and says she bought the PPI policy at the same time, while  she was in store. On 
balance I think its more  likely  thats the case.
 
Mrs Hs store card application  form was completed to show that she wanted the PPI. 
Card protection was also available on the form, but it seems Mrs H chose not to take 
that. So I think  she wouldve realised she had a choice about whether or not to buy 
the PPI. 
From what  Ive seen, I havent been  able to safely conclude that FICL didnt make 
Mrs H aware that the policy  was optional.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. That means it didnt have to ask about  her circumstances, or whether she 
had any other means to cover her repayments.
But even if FICL had recommended  the policy to Mrs H, it doesnt look as though it 
was unsuitable  for her, based  on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. 
Mrs H has told me she was self-employed. But it wouldnt have been any more  
difficult for Mrs H to make a successful unemployment claim on the policy than it 
wouldve been for someone  who was employed. So I think  the policy  wouldve been 
useful to Mrs H.
Its possible  the information FICL  gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mrs H would have been  affected by any of the 
Ref: DRN22059902main things the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit.  So I 
dont think better information  wouldve stopped her buying it. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2205990