K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  Barclays  Bank UK PLC wrongly  recommended an unnecessary and 
unsuitable life and critical illness policy and implied  this was a condition of its mortgage offer.
background
At the time of the sale, Miss S was applying for a mortgage and it was recorded that she was 
single, and with no dependents. The policy  was sold to cover a mortgage for £56,000  over 
10 years.  The policy  was sold on a decreasing cover basis.  
An adjudicator at this service  said the policy was one of the cheapest and most suitable 
types of policy for a repayment mortgage,  and included critical illness cover which  is suitable  
for a single person with no dependents. In the event that Miss S had suffered a critical illness  
the policy would have paid out a lump sum, enabling  her to repay the mortgage.
She noted that the adviser had said:
As you wish to leave your estate to your chosen beneficiaries without any outstanding 
mortgage debt you have insufficient cover  in place. She felt this showed that a
discussion also took place  concerning  the life cover element.
Taking all this into account, she didnt believe that the policy  was unsuitable at the time of 
the sale. There was nothing to show that it was compulsory  and Barclays had confirmed 
that the policy was not a condition of the mortgage.
Miss Ss representative did not agree, and said:
In the event of Miss S's death, there would've  been no-one to benefit from the pay-
out; this clearly shows the policy was unsuitable
She was in an extremely good financial  situation, owning a business  which  produced 
a considerable  income without her needing to be hands-on. If she was off work due 
to sickness or illness she would still have had the means  to pay off her mortgage, 
particularly given  the size of her savings
She was never given  the option  to decline the policy  and was advised that without it 
she would not have been eligible  for credit
The adjudicator  noted that Barclays said this policy was not compulsory, but what  
documents or evidence led her to reach this conclusion?
The adjudicator said the application was for a mortgage not credit, and that Barclays 
recommendations letter stated that the policy was not a condition of the mortgage  offer.  She 
said shed taken into account that Miss S was single with no dependents  but the policy  
provided critical illness cover as well. If she had suffered a critical illness,  the policy  would 
have enabled  her to repay the mortgage. The cost of the policy was just £10.29 per month 
and it was stated  that she wanted to leave her estate debt free in the event of her death.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and for the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN20082802Its important to explain that my role, when considering a complaint, is to decide  whether a 
business clearly did something wrong or made a mistake, not whether it might have done 
things differently (such as made a different  recommendation).
In this context I do not think  there is sufficient evidence to safely  conclude  that the advisor 
did offer poor or unsuitable advice. 
Firstly, the evidence clearly indicates  that the advisor told Miss S this policy was not a 
condition of the mortgage, meaning she had a choice as to whether to go ahead  or not. In 
this context, the question is whether the recommendation was manifestly  unsuitable i.e. 
whether the advisor should not have even suggested taking out life and critical illness  cover  
to protect  her mortgage.
I do not think it was an unreasonable recommendation, and for the reasons outlined by the 
adjudicator. Many people  choose to take out all sorts of insurance policies even when they 
have substantial savings  and/or independent income or wealth. This is so that  for a modest 
sum  they can have  the reassurance that if they face, say, critical illness they can cope with 
this without depleting their assets. So I do not believe the advisor  was wrong  to recommend 
critical illness cover.
I accept that Miss S may not have had a specific need for life insurance given she had no 
dependents but this would  have represented a small percentage of the monthly  premiums  
and it may be that standalone critical illness cover would have cost just as much, in my 
experience.
Crucially, I am satisfied that Miss S was in a sufficiently informed position to make a decision 
as to whether  to go ahead  with this recommendation. I have seen no persuasive evidence  to 
indicate that the advisor misled her into believing this cover  was a pre-condition  of the 
mortgage offer.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2008280