K820x#14complaint
Mrs T and Mr P complain that Bank  of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) is unfairly refusing to 
remove Mrs T from a joint bank  account.
Mrs T wants Halifax to remove  her name  from the joint bank account.
background
Mrs T and Mr P opened  a joint back account  with Halifax.  Mrs T says that she asked Halifax 
to remove her name from the joint bank account  when she was divorced about 16 years ago.
Halifax says that it doesnt  have a record of Mrs Ts request. As there  is an overdraft on the 
bank account  Halifax isnt willing to remove Mrs Ts name as both customers are responsible  
for the overdraft.
Mrs T says that Mr P is happy to sign a document to say that he accepts sole responsibility 
for the account.  
The investigator didnt  recommend that Mrs T and Mr Ps complaint be upheld.  He said that 
Halifax couldnt find any record  of Mrs T or Mr P asking to have Mrs Ts name  removed in 
the past. 
The investigator explained that Mrs T and Mr P are jointly liable for the overdraft. As the 
account is currently in collections due to exceeding the overdraft limit Halifax  isnt willing  to 
remove Mrs Ts name. 
Mrs T isnt happy with the investigators recommendation.  She thinks Halifax is being 
unreasonable as Mr P has agreed  to take full liability.   
Mrs T says that she put in a request to remove her name years  ago.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this, where  the evidence is inconclusive,  I reach  my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. That means  Ill look at all the available evidence and decide  what  I think is most 
likely to have happened.
I can appreciate Mrs Ts sense of frustration  with the fact that her name continues to be 
associated with a joint account that she hasnt used for many years. However, as the 
account was set up in joint names, both customers are liable for the overdraft, even  if one of 
them doesnt  know about it. 
I cant require Halifax to remove Mrs Ts name  from the joint bank account even if Mr P signs  
something to say that he will accept responsibility for the overdraft going forward. 
Mrs T says that she asked Halifax to remove her name from the joint account some time ago 
but Halifax hasnt  got a record of this. Halifaxs records  indicate that Mrs T contacted the 
bank in November  2017 to discuss a change of name but I cant  see any reference  to 
Ref: DRN26811432removing her name from the joint bank account.  So based on the evidence  that I have,  I 
cant reasonably  say that Halifax made  a mistake  by leaving Mrs Ts name on the bank 
account.
If Mrs T remains concerned about the way in which the joint bank account is being operated 
she can contact Halifax to discuss possible changes to the management of the account so 
that both account  holders need to agree before certain steps are taken in the future.
Halifax has agreed that it would remove Mrs Ts name from the account  once  the overdraft is 
repaid. I consider this to be fair and urge Mrs T and Mr P to try and agree a way forward so 
that this can happen.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 May 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2681143