K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  Santander UK Plc should have actively  managed  their investments.   
background
Mr and Mrs M took out joint investments with Santander during a branch meeting with an 
adviser, Mr N, in 2012. They paid an arrangement fee at the time,  and say Mr N told them  
that Santander would manage  these investments for them.  
Mr and Mrs M say it appeared  Santander was managing the investments initially,  as they 
were receiving income from them but later were able to contact the branch and opted out of 
this. 
In 2019 Mrs M contacted  Santander to discuss the investments. On being  told that the 
investments werent  being managed by Santander, Mr and Mrs M complained.  They felt 
theyd been charged fees under false pretences, as their investments were not being actively  
managed by the bank. 
In response to the complaint, Santander  explained  it had only provided an execution  only 
service to Mr and Mrs M. It also sent them information about how to contact an independent 
financial adviser if they wished to do so. 
Mr and Mrs M were  unhappy with this and brought their complaint  to our service.  Our 
investigator looked into it but didnt think it should  be upheld. As Mr and Mrs M disagreed, 
the case has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of Mr and Mrs Ms money was invested in funds, which are managed by a fund 
manager. I appreciate  this terminology  may be confusing, and our investigator has 
explained how a fund manager differs from when a portfolio of investments is managed by a 
financial business. For clarity, the fund manager  will have made decisions about the fund  
for example, which companies the money  in the fund will be invested into. Theyd  do this in 
line with that funds investment strategy, on behalf  of all the investors  - but not in line with the 
objectives of individual  investors, such as Mr and Mrs M. 
If Mr and Mrs M had an agreement that Santander would manage their investment portfolio, 
then Santander  would  be responsible for actively monitoring  their different investments  and 
part of this would include deciding which funds they might invest in. Santander would provide 
Mr and Mrs M with advice  about  what to do on an ongoing basis, for example buying  or 
selling different investments, and might also make  decisions about the investments on their 
behalf. This is distinct to a fund manager managing the money invested in one specific fund, 
on behalf of all the funds investors.  
But for this to have  been the case  for Mr and Mrs Ms investment portfolio  to be actively  
managed by Santander  they wouldve had to have entered into a specific  agreement with 
the bank. This agreement  wouldve outlined  the terms of the relationship,  including Mr and 
Ref: DRN27492272Mrs Ms investment objectives. Santander  would then be expected  to manage all their 
investments in line with these. 
Ive seen nothing  which suggests such an agreement was put in place. Or that a 
management fee for this service was ever charged. So taking everything into account, I 
cannot say Santander should  have been actively managing Mr and Mrs Ms investments. 
Mr and Mrs M have  provided illustrations for the investments which  say How much will any 
advice cost? But this advice  refers  to the advice they were  given when  buying  the 
investments initially, not ongoing advice to manage  them. The fee does include an ongoing 
annual charge, but this isnt unusual, and its clear  its part of the cost of the initial  advice 
rather than payment for an additional service. 
Ive reviewed documents from when the investments were  sold to Mr and Mrs M in 2012, 
including fact finds and recommendations. Nothing  in these documents suggests the adviser 
told Mr and Mrs M that he or Santander  would manage their investments. 
Mr and Mrs M say they received some advice from Santander in branch, after theyd taken 
out the investments. However  even  if this is the case, I havent seen evidence  to say 
Santander was under any obligation  to provide this, or that this was a service  Mr and Mrs M 
were paying  for. 
Mr and Mrs M say they took out these investments on the understanding their portfolio would 
be managed by Santander.  Ive been provided with nothing to show  Santander was under 
the obligation to do so, such  as evidence of a management agreement being entered into or 
management fees being charged. And Ive seen  nothing  to suggest Santander gave Mr and 
Mrs M the impression that it would  manage their investments  when this wasnt  the case. So I 
cannot fairly uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  30 April 2020.
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2749227