K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, should  accept 
responsibility for this complaint. To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller of the 
PPI in my decision.
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 2000 Mrs M took out a store card with PPI whilst she was out shopping. 
Among other  things, Mrs M said she had a health  problem when she took out the PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Ms complaint upheld it. She didnt think Mrs M wouldve 
taken out the insurance if FICL  had made  her aware  that the policy  wouldnt have covered 
accident and sickness claims  for any health  problem Mrs M had when she bought it.
FICL has responded to our adjudicators view to say it requires further  information  about the 
medical conditions.  It also says that as it considers both conditions mentioned by Mrs M are 
manageable it has been unable to determine the impact this wouldve had on her decision to 
take out the policy.
Mrs Ms complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL needed to give Mrs M enough clear information about the PPI for her to be able to 
make an informed choice  about whether it was right for her. 
FICL and Mrs M say the policy was taken out instore. I dont know  exactly what was said 
when the policy was sold to Mrs M.
The policy Mrs M bought  didnt cover claims resulting  from any sickness, disease,  condition 
or injury which she knew about,  or should have  known  about, or for which she received 
advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the policy  start 
date.
Mrs M says she was diagnosed with her health conditions around the mid 1990s.  So I think  
its likely  that the policy  wording wouldve excluded cover for accident and sickness  claims 
for Mrs Ms health problems. 
Ref: DRN20833872I think the limitation on cover for health conditions is likely to have mattered to Mrs M. I say 
this because I think that her conditions are relatively serious. Mrs M takes daily medication to 
manage her conditions. So, as shed only been  diagnosed a few years  before taking out the 
policy, I think Mrs M might reasonably have expected that her health conditions  could 
potentially have a significant impact on her day to day life and lead to her needing to take 
time off work.
But I cant see how or if FICL drew this information  to her attention, as it shouldve done.  
And, if it had, I think its likely that Mrs M wouldnt have bought the policy.  
Ive taken carefully into account  what FICL  has said in response to our adjudicators  opinion.  
But this doesnt  affect my overall view. Based on all the information  Ive seen, I think  Mrs M 
has lost out because of what FICL did wrong  and it should put things right. 
putting things right 
FICL should put Mrs M in the financial  position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
How it does this will depend on whether Mrs Ms store card account is still active  or has been  
closed.
If Mrs Ms account  is still active, the policy should be cancelled  if it hasnt been cancelled 
already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs M would owe on her store card if the policy  hadnt  
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs M owes and what  she would 
have owed.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Mrs M would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs M 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying  interest until the point  when Mrs M 
wouldve owed FICL something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
C.FICL  should tell Mrs M what its done to work out A and B.
If Mrs Ms account  has been closed: 
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs M would have owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN20833873FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs M owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs M would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs M would have owed each  month without PPI  
Mrs M paid more than enough to clear her balance,  FICL should also pay simple  interest  
on the extra Mrs M paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when 
Mrs M wouldve owed FICL something  on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% 
a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs M what its done  to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs M that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2083387