K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr G says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I wasnt present at the meeting, I've to decide what I think is more  likely  than not to have 
happened based on all of the evidence.
 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Gs credit card application  form. Theres an option to indicate if 
PPI is required and an X has been typed  next to this option. Mr G has signed  the 
overall agreement.
As this was a sale where Halifax were making a recommendation  to take PPI, I think  
that its more likely than not that a discussion took place about PPI and the X was 
added by the adviser to indicate what he wanted. Some  of Mr Gs other  personal  
details have also been added to the form, such as his job details and salary 
suggesting that a conversation took place about  Mr Gs personal circumstances.
Mr G has said that the PPI was added  without his knowledge and that he would have 
seen the terminal  that the adviser  was using to populate the form. But even if Mr G 
couldnt see what was being added to the form, he did have an opportunity  to review 
the form before he signed it. 
In fairness to Mr G, even though I think what Ive described above is more  likely than 
not to have happened (a discussion and then the X was added), Ive also 
considered what  if he had signed the form without fully realising that hed be taking 
PPI.
But Ive then considered that the PPI premiums would have appeared on Mr Gs 
credit card statements when he had an outstanding balance. So I think  that Mr G 
would have reasonably questioned why he was paying for PPI when the cost 
appeared on his statements. But the evidence is that he didnt and PPI remained on 
his account for some  time after it was taken out.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr G so it had to check that it was right for him.    
Mr G has told us that he had a pre-existing medical condition (PEMC) at the time of 
sale and this policy would have excluded PEMCs 
But based  on what Mr G has told us about his PEMC, the limited  impact that it seems 
to have had on his life and that he controlled it by medication, I still think that the 
recommendation to take PPI was suitable and the policy was right for him.
Ref: DRN27522452I say this because  I think  that the chances  of Mr G needing to claim for his PEMC 
were relatively low and that hed still want to be covered for all of the other  reasons 
why he might be unwell and unable to work  potentially for a lot longer. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his wider circumstances at the time,  I still think that the 
recommendation was suitable and the policy was right for Mr G. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the other  exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said - including  what hes said about his existing  
means of making  his repayments if he was unwell  and unable  to work or if he was made 
unemployed.
Mr G has told us that he was entitled to a period of full sick pay, but it would decrease to half 
pay after six months. This policy could have  paid out for up to 12 months per claim and         
I think that Mr G could  have found it useful if he was unwell  and unable  to work. Ive also 
noted what Mr G has said about  his redundancy entitlement. But the three  months 
redundancy entitlement is less than the 12 months  that the PPI could have paid out for.
Mr G has also referred  to other loan PPI complaints being upheld. This was a credit  card PPI 
complaint and our Service considers each complaint on its own merits. Ive not seen 
anything to persuade me to uphold this particular complaint and it would  also be 
inappropriate for me to comment on a decision made by Halifax on a separate  unrelated 
complaint.
So these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr G paid for it. But Halifax  has already  offered to give Mr G back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr G now Ive issued my final decision. Its possible 
that its already  done this.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Ref: DRN27522453Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2752245