K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) dealt  
with the renewal of their home insurance  and with a data protection breach by it.
background
Mr S called RSA in June  2018 to renew  his and Mrs Ss joint home policy. There  was some  
initial confusion over whether he wanted to cancel, but it appears that a premium  was 
agreed. Because of the confusion and Mr S having  to make a number of calls, RSA agreed  
to pay £30 compensation. RSA then made several  attempts to contact Mr S to collect the 
premium. When  it managed to speak  to him in July 2018, Mr S was on holiday and it was 
agreed that he would call when he returned. RSA agreed to mark the policy  as live so it 
didnt auto cancel.  Mr S didnt call back in August as he had agreed.  He did call in October to 
check cover  under the policy, he was told it was still live but no mention was made about the 
premium.
In December 2018 Mr S wanted to make a claim.  RSA then noted that the renewal premium 
hadnt been paid. It nevertheless agreed to deal with the claim if Mr S paid the renewal 
premium. In the course of a phone call, a member of staff at RSA neglected to carry out data 
protection checks and then disclosed  the address on the policy  to Mr S. RSA apologised and 
agreed a further  payment of £20. It acknowledged the error and assured Mr S that the staff 
member concerned had been given feedback to address the issue and prevent recurrence.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy  and registered  a complaint with this service. In particular Mr S 
was concerned that he had been  asked to pay the premium in December  which caused him 
difficulty and with the fact that RSA could have given out his address to anyone.
On review by this service,  our investigator  thought that RSA had acted appropriately in 
dealing with Mr and Mrs Ss complaints. In particular whilst  she acknowledged his concerns 
over the data protection issue, no information  was given out to a third party.
Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy and the matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S had several conversations with RSA about policy renewal. RSA agreed that this, with 
the confusion  about whether the policy  was cancelled,  had caused  some inconvenience for 
which it paid £30.
It was then up to Mr S to pay the renewal premium  and I note that RSA attempted  to call him 
several times. When it managed to speak  to him, he was on holiday and could only offer to 
pay with a charge  card,  which RSA couldnt accept. Nevertheless it agreed to mark the 
policy as live to enable  him to pay the premium in August  when he returned. Mr S didnt 
contact RSA then, as he was ill. But he still took no steps to pay the premium. He called 
RSA in October when,  presumably  as the policy was marked as live RSAs  staff member 
didnt think to ask for the premium. And I note that Mr S didnt offer it, when he would have 
known it was still outstanding.
Ref: DRN24016422RSA didnt contact  Mr S about the premium until he made a claim in December. I think  it was 
reasonable for it to ask for the outstanding premium then before it could deal with the claim. 
Had it not marked the policy as live it would have been within  its rights to cancel the policy 
and not reinstate it. So, although a payment in December may have been difficult, 
Mr and Mrs S had had several months  of cover  under their policy  without paying. I think 
RSAs initial  payment of £30 was reasonable and that it acted reasonably after that.
As for the data protection breach, it isnt my function to decide  whether there  has been such  
a breach. That is a matter  for the Information Commissioner. We would only consider 
awarding compensation where there has been  a direct impact on the customer because  of 
the breach eg their personal details given  out to a third party. I cant make an award for what 
might have happened. So whilst I understand Mr and Mrs Ss concern, I think  RSAs  
payment of £20 and its assurance that it had taken steps to prevent any recurrence was 
reasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019..
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2401642