K822xcomplaint
Miss C is unhappy that First Rate Exchange Services  Ltd (FRES) blocked her Travel Money 
(TM) card while  she was overseas. She wants First Rate to compensate  her for the costs 
she says she incurred  because of this block. 
background 
Miss C has a TM card issued by FRES. This is a pre-paid card for use when travelling. 
Miss C used her bank debit card to load £1,100 on to her TM card as she was going  
overseas. But when she arrived at her destination, her TM card wouldnt work.  This meant  
she didnt have any money to pay for her accommodation. 
When Miss C called FRES, she was told that her TM card had been blocked due a report of 
fraud four months earlier. FRES asked Miss C to send  it various  documents to prove her 
identity. But as she was overseas, Miss C couldnt send FRES all the information it wanted. 
Despite numerous  phone  calls, her card remained blocked. In the end, Miss C was able to 
get her bank to transfer money from a savings account into her current  account. She could  
then access money for her travelling expenses. 
When Miss C returned to the UK she continued to discuss this issue  with FRES and sent it 
further information from her bank.  But her TM card remained blocked and she couldnt 
access the £1,100 shed  loaded on to it. So Miss C complained to FRES.  She also asked her 
bank to help her get this money  back. But after initially  crediting her account with £1,100,  her 
bank then had to reverse this when FRES disputed the refund. 
FRES didnt  uphold Miss Cs complaint. In short, it said there was a query on two 
transactions that Miss C had disputed as fraudulent  and, as it hadnt  received all the 
information it had asked her for, it couldnt unblock her account.  
Miss C wasnt  happy with this, so she brought her complaint to us. She explained she wasnt 
comfortable providing further information  to FRES as she was cautious  about how her 
personal information was handled.  In the meantime,  FRES had returned the £1,100  to her 
bank account.  
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Cs complaint.  Briefly,  while  she could see that 
FRES was following its security procedures, she thought  it had acted unfairly by not taking 
Miss Cs circumstances  into account.  Our investigator said FRES  should refund the cost of 
the calls Miss C made while trying to sort this out, and pay her £200 compensation. 
Miss C accepted this view. FRES  didnt. It made  numerous points, mainly relating  to its 
security procedures. As the matter remains unresolved, this complaint has been passed  to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
Ill explain  why. 
Ref: DRN20426302But first, Im aware  that Ive summarised  this complaint very briefly,  in far less detail  than has 
been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Ive done this for 
several reasons.  
Ive focussed  on what I think is the crux of the matter  here:  did FRES act fairly and 
reasonably when Miss C made it aware  of the problems she was having when trying to use 
her TM card while overseas? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  point or argument  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Also, our decisions are published. So its important that I dont include any information which  
might identify Miss C. Similarly, FRES has provided a great deal of detail about its security  
procedures. To protect the integrity  of these security procedures  and to keep them  out of the 
public domain, Ive only referred to these in very general terms. 
As above, Ive referred only briefly to whats happened  here,  rather than providing an exact 
timeline of the events  which  Miss C has complained about. In any event, what actually 
happened is broadly agreed  by both parties.  Whats in dispute  is how FRES handled this 
issue once Miss C found out her card had been blocked. Ill now turn to that. 
My starting point is whether it was fair and reasonable for FRES to block  Miss Cs TM card in 
the first place. It did this in August 2018 after receiving a report of fraud  involving the card. 
This related to an issue shed had when loading various  amounts  to her TM card using her 
bank debit card around three months  earlier.  
Miss C recently told us that one of these  for £110  didnt appear  on her TM card straight 
away. She contacted  her bank about  this. Its fraud  team looked into this. The bank  then 
cancelled Miss Cs debit  card,  sent her a replacement  and re-credited  her bank account with 
the £110. 
This incident was flagged  up to FRES  as it involved a payment to its TM card. It then 
followed its security process and blocked Miss Cs card. Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions for the TM card. These make it clear that FRES can suspend  the use of the card if 
it has concerns over its security. Given that it had been notified of an issue with a payment to 
the card, I think it was fair and reasonable for FRES to put a block on it. 
But FRES didnt tell Miss C her TM card had been blocked.  Four months later she was able 
to load £1,100 to her TM card. Miss C didnt find out her card was already blocked until she 
was alone, in a foreign country, unable to pay for accommodation. 
FRES has explained how its security process works and the reasoning  behind  this. I can 
fully appreciate why FRES operates in this way. FRES has told us that its process works in 
the vast majority of cases  and this makes  its product  undesirable to potential  fraudsters.  
FRES also told us that Miss C was an exception but this doesnt warrant  a process  change. I 
accept this. As above, Im not going  into any details here. 
I would point out here that its not our role to tell a business what systems and processes it 
should have in place. Nor do we have the power to tell it to change these. That falls within 
Ref: DRN20426303the remit of the relevant regulator. But what we can look at is if those systems and 
processes mean Miss C was treated unfairly. 
FRES security process meant that Miss C was unaware that her card had been  blocked. So 
she was unaware  there was a problem when she was planning her trip and loaded  her 
money onto her TM card. Ive listened  to the call she made to FRES after she couldnt check 
into her hotel as her TM card wouldnt work. 
When Miss C was told her card had been blocked,  she was quite clearly and quite 
understandably very distressed. She repeatedly told FRES that she was stuck,  alone, in an 
overseas city that she didnt know well, unable to pay for any accommodation. Miss C told 
FRES that she was scared and worried. In response, she was asked for various  documents 
to prove  her identity. 
While Miss C was able to send FRES copies of her passport and driving licence to prove her 
identity, quite naturally,  as she was overseas, she didnt  have  access  all the documents  she 
was being for asked  for. In response, all FRES could tell her was that it would contact  its 
head office urgently and hopefully have some  news for her the following day. 
I can fully understand  why Miss C, given her circumstances, felt this response was 
inadequate. She asked FRES  to refund the £1,100 back  to her bank account  the account 
she used to load the money on to her TM card. But FRES told her it couldnt do this without 
the documents it had asked for. 
I can see from the available evidence that over the next 24 hours,  Miss C had to make  
numerous calls,  at some expense, to try and sort things out. Fortunately, her bank was able 
to transfer some money into her current account  so she could access this with her debit 
card. But this issue clearly  caused  distress and inconvenience to Miss C. 
Our investigator thought it would have been reasonable for FRES to have refunded  the 
£1,100 back to Miss Cs bank account  once shed provided  a copy  of her passport and 
driving licence. FRES would already  have  known the sort code and account  number  the 
money came from. It could also have called  bank to verify the origins of the funds. 
FRES told us that relationships with banks  are hard to establish and its not practical to call 
them regularly for every individual case. But its also told us that it was in contact  with the 
bank only a few days after this issue was raised. Given  the circumstances of a clearly 
worried and frightened customer, alone overseas and unable to pay for her accommodation, 
I think it would have  been fair and reasonable for FRES to call her bank as soon as possible 
to try and resolve the situation. Im satisfied it could, and should, have done  more here.  
FRES also seems concerned that Miss C asked her bank to get her money  back from FRES. 
But Im satisfied that she merely wanted her money returned to her account as shed  not 
been able to access it. This is evidenced by her banks  letter  to her explaining that it wasnt  
able to uphold  her merchant dispute. 
As Ive said,  FRES rightly points out that its process  and systems work in the vast majority  of 
cases and this exception  doesnt warrant any changes. I fully accept that  and its a position 
that FRES  is absolutely  entitled to take.  But when there is an exception, and the process  
doesnt work and produces an unfair  and unreasonable situation for a consumer, as it does 
here, FRES needs  to put things right for that consumer. 
Ref: DRN20426304Here, Miss C had to make numerous calls over a 24 hour period. I can see from her phone  
bill that while  the first calls are included within Miss Cs call allowance,  she had to pay for the 
rest. The cost of these  calls totalled  £173.08.  As I think FRES should  have done more, 
sooner, to assist Miss C, Im satisfied it should  cover the cost of these calls.  
Also, its very clear to me that Miss C was upset and inconvenienced by the actions of FRES  
and its reluctance to assist her. Im satisfied that compensation of £200 is proportionate  to 
the circumstances here.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. First Rate  Exchange Services  Ltd must pay 
Miss C £173.08 for her call costs, together with £200 to compensate her for the trouble and 
upset shes experienced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2042630