K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained about poor communication and customer service by Bank of Scotland 
plc (trading as Halifax) in relation to her mortgage  account. The mortgage is held jointly with 
Mr B and he has consented to the complaint being brought.
background
Ms M and Mr B have  a mortgage with Halifax taken out in 1999. They separated  in 2014  and 
Ms M left the property. Mr B is still living there. They arranged  payment of the mortgage 
between them, but are jointly and severally liable for the repayments as far as Halifax  is 
concerned.
In 2018 Ms M complained  that Halifax hadnt  contacted her about  the missed  payments on 
the account between September and December 2017, as a result of which she was unaware 
that the account had fallen into arrears. This has affected her credit file. Mr B was also 
unhappy about the contact with Halifax, as he thought it was excessive.
Halifax didnt uphold  the complaint. It explained  that it had written to the primary account  
holder (Mr B) at the security address and spoken to him on the phone about  the arrears.  
Halifax also said that it had been  in telephone contact with Ms M in the past about other 
matters but shed confirmed that post was to be sent to the security  address. Halifax said it 
wouldnt remove any credit entries, as these were  correct, although Ms M could, if she 
wanted, send  a notice of correction to the credit  reference agencies.
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Ms M complained to us, with the consent of Mr B. An 
adjudicator looked at the complaint. In a detailed  letter dated 29 April 2019, she set out a 
timeline of the contact  Halifax had had with both Ms M and Mr B. She analysed  the payment 
history and didnt think  Halifax had done  anything  wrong. 
After listening to telephone calls between Ms M and Halifax,  the adjudicator was also 
satisfied that Halifax  had done  nothing  wrong  in writing to the security  address. Thats  
because Ms M had instructed Halifax to do so.
Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators findings. She said that the mortgage was paid from 
her bank account so she considered herself  to be the primary account  holder.  Ms M says 
that she appreciates  that all correspondence was sent to the security  address. But she 
argues that, if Halifax hadnt been able to speak to Mr B, it should have made more of an 
effort to contact her. 
Because Ms M didnt agree with the adjudicators  findings, the file has now been passed  to 
me to issue  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive listened to the call recordings and 
taken note of everything provided by Ms M and Halifax.
I wont repeat the background  history  here.  Thats because, in her letter dated 29 April 2019, 
the adjudicator  set out a detailed chronology  of events setting out payment history and the 
Ref: DRN24128372contact between Halifax, Ms M and Mr B over the relevant period. All parties  have a copy of 
that letter, so I dont need to repeat the details here.
Having reviewed the file and listened to the telephone calls relating  to previous complaints, I 
dont think Halifax has made any error.  Halifaxs systems  in common with most mortgage  
lenders  are set up so that the first-named applicant  is considered  to be the primary on the 
account. In this case, it is Mr B who is primary. So he is the party Halifax  has contacted.
I appreciate Mr B has been unhappy at the amount of contact hes had from Halifax  about  
the account. But where there were missed  payments, Halifax was entitled to contact him to 
find out the position. I dont think the level of contact  was unreasonable.
As far as correspondence is concerned, Im satisfied that Ms M instructed Halifax not to 
change the address on the file but to keep it as the security address. She explained that she 
could go to the property to collect post. So although  Ms M had given Halifax different 
addresses for complaint correspondence to be sent to her when shed made complaints in 
the past, this isnt the same as changing  the address on the account  from the security  
address to another property. 
Ive reviewed the payment history and Im satisfied that the arrears  figures  are correct. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied Halifax has correctly reported missed  payments on Ms M and 
Mr Bs credit  files.
I know this isnt the outcome Ms M wanted. It seems  that the problem arose  not because of 
Halifax, but because  of communication difficulties between Ms M and Mr B. He was aware of 
the arrears position,  but didnt let Ms M know. Whilst I appreciate this is not a situation of 
Ms Ms own making,  its not Halifaxs fault either. Thats why I cant uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 October  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2412837