K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mr and Mrs R payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs R disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully the comments of Mr and Mrs R. However, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  I will explain why:
Mr and Mrs R say they were never  asked  if they wanted PPI and they didnt need it. 
However Ive looked at the paper work from the time and I can see that the PPI is 
presented as a choice, and there  is a tick to apply  for PPI on the form which Mr and 
Mrs R signed. There is also a separate  application form which  sets out the 
percentage of any benefit they each  would receive   Mr R 66% and Mrs R 34%.  This 
does suggest  there  was some discussion about the PPI
Ive also born in mind  that this did happen  about 18 years ago, and I wouldnt expect  
someone to recall in detail  everything  that happened  so many years back. Overall,  on 
the evidence available, I couldnt fairly say the PPI was added without Mr and Mrs 
Rs consent.
Lloyds Bank PLC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R, but it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable,  based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances  at the time.  Being 
unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid 
benefits at the same  time as Mr and Mrs R received  any employer sick pay, and 
potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay. And it would have  put off the time when they would need to fall back 
on any savings  although it seems they didnt have substantial savings at the time. 
(It seems Mr R was also covered  by another insurance, but this was for particular 
serious problems and did not cover  all the situations that PPI would cover.)
This all would have  put Mr and Mrs R in a more secure position, if they eventually 
lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. So, despite  the good  
benefits they had from their work,  the PPI was still potentially useful and so the 
recommendation by Lloyds  was reasonable. 
The monthly price of the policy was shown. So I think Mr and Mrs R would have  
understood how much it would  cost. 
Ref: DRN21574052Its possible Lloyds Bank PLC didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy  didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr and Mrs R would have been affected by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2157405