K820x#14Complaint
Miss M says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold her mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
Background
Miss M took out a regular premium PPI policy with her mortgage  in 2001. The policy  covered 
Miss M if she couldnt work due to disablement. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Miss M disagreed with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Miss Ms case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Unfortunately, there are gaps in the information thats still available from the sale in 2001. I 
dont find that surprising given how long ago that was. Nevertheless,  Ive taken into account  
the information I do have, together with the arguments raised by the parties. I note, for 
example, that Miss M says she believed  she had to have the PPI when she applied for the 
mortgage. But Im mindful that, so many  years after the sale,  she might  no longer have a 
completely accurate recollection of it. 
Ive also taken into account Miss Ms mortgage  offer which, albeit was issued after the sale, 
suggests the PPI was presented as optional and separate  to the mortgage. 
Overall, I havent seen enough  evidence to suggest  that Nationwide presented the PPI to 
Miss M as compulsory or as part and parcel  of the mortgage. I think  she aware that she had 
a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it knowing that was the case. 
I dont believe Nationwide  recommended the PPI to Miss M, so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss M got the information  she needed in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way to decide  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt  
look like better information would have put her off the policy  anyway. I say that because, for 
example, Miss M wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover.  And 
I cant see that shed  have found the monthly premium  unaffordable. 
It seems  as though Miss M was entitled  to enhanced sick pay from her employer. But the 
PPI benefits were considerable and potentially  paid out for up to 12 months for each 
successful disability claim. If she had savings, the PPI meant she could  have retained  them  
or used  them to cover her other  living costs  if she wasnt working.
On the whole, I believe the PPI provided  affordable and useful protection  for Miss M if 
something went wrong especially as the borrowing was secured against her home.  
Ref: DRN28811772Ive carefully thought  about all of Miss Ms comments. Having taken everything into account,  
Nationwide doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to her. But Nationwide will pay 
back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Miss M about  that. Because Nationwide didnt tell 
Miss M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwides  basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers fair in 
this case.
What the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Miss M any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  already  done so. Nationwide  should  also pay back 
to Miss M any extra interest she paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Miss M the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide  should  
also pay Miss M 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss M can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2881177