K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limited, it provides his home insurance and made an 
offer to settle his stolen jewellery  claim,  which he accepted, only for it to decrease the offer.
background
Mr D made  a claim following  a burglary at his home.  Ageas  had a jewellery  specialist assess  
his claim and the specialist reported that the stolen jewellery was worth just over £19,000.  
Ageas considered the policy excess and took note of some  policy  limits. It told Mr D it would 
settle the claim at a value of £18,220 for the items  listed. Mr D considered and agreed to that 
settlement for those  items.  But, he said, there were some items not on the list. He asked 
Ageas to consider these.
Ageas didnt answer Mr Ds email  but did ask its specialist to review the claim regarding the 
other items. During that process Ageas noted  that a policy limit had been missed by it when 
its initial offer had been made. When Mr D emailed Ageas asking for an update  it told him 
the most  it could pay for all of his items was £13,500  (£8,000, being the limit for unspecified 
jewellery items, plus £5,500 for some stolen specified items). 
Mr D was unhappy. He told Ageas hed accepted  its offer of payment which made  it binding.  
He said it should  honour that offer. Ageas apologised  for the mistake made and paid £50 
compensation for the upset caused but it wasnt prepared to honour the original offer.  Mr D 
complained to this service. 
Our investigator noted that Mr D hadnt  acted  on the offer made by Ageas and accepted by 
him. She noted  the later offer now made did reflect what  Mr D was entitled to under the 
policy in place. She didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to make Ageas pay any more.  
Mr D said three people  had advised  him that as hed accepted  the offer Ageas was bound to 
pay that sum. He said he hadnt had any funds to buy replacement  jewellery  but if Ageas 
had paid that figure he would have done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr D when Ageas offer was revised.  And I accept that 
Ageas had intended to be bound by the offer made  at the point it made it. However, because 
Mr D didnt act on the offer following his acceptance of it, perhaps by ordering replacement 
items, the promise Ageas had made to pay didnt become a binding  contract. 
Further Ageas  did nothing following receipt  of Mr Ds acceptance which might be considered 
affirmation by it that it was to pay the sum accepted  by Mr D. In fact Ageas  first contact 
following Mr Ds acceptance was its email  advising of the revised offer. So again, I dont 
think there are any grounds  for seeing  Ageas  offer as anything more  than a promise  to pay. 
A promise which it then broke.
If an insurer breaks a promise that will usually cause upset, disappointment and sometimes 
inconvenience. This service views that compensation should be paid in that instance.  I see 
Ageas has already acknowledged its failure,  along with the upset it caused and apologised 
Ref: DRN24052072as well as offering compensation. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances. Making 
Ageas pay the original  offer amount  would  be punitive  as the difference  in question  is nearly 
£5,000 which is a far higher sum than our service awards in circumstances like this. That 
sum is reflective of the broken promise rather than the upset that failure caused, and it is the 
latter that we award compensation  for.
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded there are any grounds for me to fairly and 
reasonably require Ageas to honour its original settlement offer made  to Mr D. Furthermore, 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable to make  Ageas pay any more 
compensation for the upset its mistake  and revised  offer caused.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Ageas  Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2405207