K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about TenetConnect Limited (TenetConnect). Hes unhappy with the advice 
he received to transfer benefits from a final salary  occupational pension  scheme  (OPS) to a 
personal pension  plan (PPP). Mr F considers that the advice was inappropriate.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 15 April 2019. Ive recapped the background below:
Mr Fs complaint is being brought on his behalf  by a Claims Management Company (CMC). 
My references to Mr F should be understood to include this CMC.
Mr F received the advice  hes complaining  about  from an appointed representative of 
TenetConnect. Ive only referred to TenetConnect below but my references  should be 
understood to include  the adviser Mr F originally dealt with.
In February 1994  Mr F was initially contacted  by a TenetConnect financial adviser. It invited 
him to find out how he could free  the pension he held with his former employer. Mr F later 
completed the form required to give TenetConnect authority to get information from the 
Trustees of Mr Fs OPS regarding his deferred pension benefits.    
At the time Mr Fs circumstances and pension  provision  were as follows:
he was 31 years old, single and had no dependents
his stated occupation at the time was that he was an engineer
hed accrued over 12 years pensionable service with his former employer between 8 
January 1980  to 7 December 1992
his OPS was a non-contributory pension scheme  which  provided a preserved 
pension payable when  Mr F reached  age 60
his OPS was index linked
the transfer value of Mr Fs OPS at the time was £12,326.03
Having met with Mr F TenetConnect requested two Transfer  Analysis Reports be prepared  
for him- one by a pension  provider Ill refer to as Provider  A (to which  Mr F later transferred 
his OPS benefits)  and one by an independent actuary.
To summarise, Provider As Transfer Analysis  Report said the following:
its report was designed to assist  Financial Advisers  in recommending whether or not 
a client should  transfer any previous retirement benefits
its report was based on Mr F having  a spouse
the investment  fund growth required for Mr Fs OPS transfer value to provide the 
same level of retirement benefits as his OPS scheme was 10.29%
To summarise, the independent actuarys  Transfer Analysis Report said the following:
Ref: DRN23194552the purpose of the report was to comment on the advisability of transferring  Mr Fs 
OPS benefits to a new arrangement
its report was based on Mr F not having a spouse
they considered  whether or not the OPS transfer value being offered as an 
alternative to the preserved benefits was reasonable and had concluded this lay 
within an acceptable range  of values
Mr Fs OPS transfer value represented a reasonable  value  for money  alternative  to 
the preserved benefits in his OPS scheme
the actuarys calculations indicated that the rate of investment return  required for the 
transfer value  to provide benefits  at least equal  to the preserved  benefits was 9.8%
while the rate required  was relatively high Mr F had over 28 years to go until he 
reached age 60. Historic rates suggested that over this period it would be possible 
to achieve the average rate of return required
Having met with Mr F the previous day TenetConnect wrote  to Mr F on 25 August 1994.  In 
summary TenetConnect:
thanked Mr F for completing the pension transfer/proposal  form so his OPS  benefits 
could be transferred 
said it was writing  to confirm what was discussed during its previous meeting with Mr 
F with particular reference to the independent actuarys report
outlined the options available to Mr F, i.e. leaving his OPS  benefits where they were,  
transferring into his new employers scheme or transferring  to a PPP
confirmed transferring to his new employers scheme wasnt  an option as Mr F wasnt 
a member of it and because his job security was poor 
confirmed the independent actuarys report indicated that for a PPP to match any 
benefits given  up under Mr Fs OPS, future inflation  and growth in the national  
average earnings needed to provide a return of 9.8%
said there was a reasonable chance that over the longer term the rate that was 
required to match his OPS benefits would be beaten by one of the leading  pension 
providers. But warned that past performance although a good  indicator couldnt be 
relied upon to repeat  in the future
said Mr F had confirmed he wanted  to forego the rights and benefits he was entitled 
to under his former  OPS  because  the PPP would give him more flexibility  and control 
of his pension
said the death benefits available  to Mr F under a PPP were more  suited than his 
OPS to his circumstances given that he was single
said it enclosed a copy of the proposal form Mr F completed along with terms and 
conditions
confirmed it had already provided Mr F with Provider A illustrations as well as a 
FIMBRA buyers guide 
overall recommended Mr F transfer  his OPS  benefits to a PPP with Provider A 
because of the past performance of its funds  and competitive charging structure 
Having followed TenetConnects advice to transfer out of his OPS,  a transfer value payment 
of £12,825.83 was made into Mr Fs new PPP with Provider A.
Ref: DRN23194553Having received advice from an independent financial adviser (IFA), Mr F transferred his 
existing PPP to a PPP with another Provider  in 2008. 
In 2017 Mr F raised a complaint  about  the advice he received from TenetConnect in 1994 to 
transfer from his OPS to a PPP. TenetConnect responded on 30 January 2017 and said Mr 
Fs complaint had been made  too late. It said Mr F shouldve  been aware he had cause to 
complain in 2008 when he transferred from his PPP with Provider A to another  Provider.
Unhappy with TenetConnects response Mr F referred his complaint  to our service.  One of 
our investigators reviewed the matter and initially said Mr Fs complaint had been made too 
late. Mr F disagreed and made further submissions.
Our investigator reconsidered the matter and concluded that Mr Fs complaint had been 
made in time. So they said the merits of Mr Fs complaint could be considered by our 
service. In essence they said that although  Mr F had switched advisers and providers  in 
2008 they didnt think this wouldve automatically made him aware he had cause for concern 
about the advice hed received in 1994.  
Following this our investigator considered the merits of Mr Fs complaint. In summary  he 
said:
the advice  TenetConnect  provided to Mr F in 1994 was unsuitable
due to Mr Fs relatively young  age it was likely that hed accumulate further pension 
provision 
Mr Fs OPS benefits were guaranteed  and didnt depend on investment performance 
so they provided  a degree of security  regarding what  would  be available  at retirement
Mr F had confirmed  that his new employer  in 1994 didnt have an OPS he could  
benefit from. So by transferring  away  from the OPS he did have exposed his 
previously guaranteed  benefits  to investment and annuity risk
the aim of transferring needed to be better than the benefits  being given up
noted that at the time Mr Fs attitude to risk (ATR) was recorded as 5/10 so he wasnt 
in a position to take on the risks associated with the transfer  or to take the risk with 
the pension provision hed accumulated up to that point
it would  have been more reasonable to use the comparator which took into account 
the provision of a dependents income  considering Mr Fs relatively young age and 
the fact his circumstances  might  change in the future
TenetConnect should compensate Mr F for the unsuitable advice by, as far as 
possible, putting him in the position he would be in now but for that advice
Mr F agreed  with our investigator. However  TenetConnect  disagreed. In summary  it said:
a return of 10.9% for a customer with 25-29  years until retirement  was considered  
achievable based on the Financial Conduct  Authoritys (FCA) published discount 
rates. The critical yield of 9.8% was well within this tolerance and reasonable at the 
time- it was a viable rate of return based  on past performance
an analysis of Provider As mixed fund in the ten years prior to the transfer showed 
the fund had delivered returns of 343% which was well in excess  of what  would  be 
required to outperform Mr Fs OPS
Ref: DRN23194554its adviser didnt have the benefit  of hindsight when advising Mr F in 1994. Regarding 
viability he based his assumptions on the actuarys report, the critical yield and past 
performance whilst also making  him aware  that the latter didnt  guarantee future 
performance
its adviser made Mr F aware several  times in its suitability letter  and the illustrations 
provided of the risks- this was in line with FCA guidance at the time
looking at the FCAs published discount rates,  it could  be seen that in 1994, a critical 
yield of 9.8% wouldve  been considered suitable for someone with 5 years until 
retirement. Mr F had over 28 years  left and so the critical  yields quoted to him were  
comfortable inside the rates provided  by the FCA which  wouldve been  applicable  at 
the date of the advice
the recommendation was made  on the basis that Mr Fs new pension  would 
outperform his OPS  and not just on the basis that the benefits might  be matched
based on the information at the time Provider As PPP presented  an opportunity  to 
outperform Mr Fs OPS
any OPS transfer presented some degree of risk but this wasnt an argument for not 
proceeding
Mr Fs 5/10 in terms of ATR was considered Balanced-  the advice was given in line 
with this. Mr F wasnt a cautious  investor and was prepared to take some risk when it 
came to achieving his investment goals
the critical yields quoted were  achievable considering the context of the time period 
and prevailing  expectations at the time in terms of return
although Mr Fs OPS was at the time his only pension  provision, he was still relatively  
young and had 28+ years  until retirement
despite Mr F being unmarried and without dependents the adviser conducted  a 
comparison both with and without a dependents income- both critical yields were 
under the discount  rate produced  by the FCA
Mr F was provided with a balance  view of the guarantees within his OPS  that he was 
giving up so he was able to make an informed  decision
it was clear that further discussions took place outside of what  was represented on 
Mr Fs file 24 years  later- the suitability  report made reference to other  conversations
The investigator considered TenetConnects comments but said his view remained the 
same. As no agreement  could be reached  the matter was referred  to me for a decision. 
And my provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while  Ive 
taken note of the extensive arguments  and comments made,  I have limited  my response to 
the issues I consider  to be central to this complaint.
Mr F doesnt think TenetConnects recommendation to transfer  benefits  accrued in his OPS  
to a PPP was suitable in the circumstances. But based on the available evidence  I cannot 
reasonably conclude the advice to transfer was inappropriate. 
Ref: DRN23194555I note that Mr F has said that all contact regarding  the 1994 advice he received was by mail 
and that he has no recollection of seeing any illustrations or Transfer Analysis Reports. I 
dont disbelieve  Mr F but given that the advice  hes complaining about was given  over twenty  
five years ago, I dont think its unusual or surprising that he may not remember  all that was 
discussed or the information he was provided  with at the time. So what Ive focused on is 
what the available evidence does show. 
TenetConnect wrote to Mr F on 25 August 1994.  It outlined the basis  of its advice, matters  
discussed previously  and included a fact find and terms and conditions  of business. 
TenetConnects letter also referred to a meeting that occurred the previous day with Mr F 
and confirmed I left you a FIMBRA buyers  guide, a business card and the [Provider A] 
illustrations. While  Mr F may not now recall seeing  any of this information or having  
discussed whats referred to in TenetConnects letter I dont think this means  these 
discussions didnt happen or that he wasnt provided with the information referred to. I think  
its reasonable to expect  that if anything in TenetConnects  letter  was incorrect, inaccurate,  
incomplete or absent that Mr F would  have queried the matter further and not immediately 
gone ahead  with TenetConnects recommendation. But Mr F did choose  to proceed with the 
recommended transfer.
At the time of the advice Mr F had accrued twelve years pensionable  service in his OPS. He 
was also relatively young  and had another twenty nine or thirty six years (depending  on if he 
took his benefits at age 60 or 65) to build up any pension provision. I am mindful  that in 
undertaking the transfer Mr F gave up what could  be considered a reasonable number of 
years of pension benefits. But, I do consider that this is offset  by the length  of time until his 
selected retirement date (29 years). On balance, I consider  that this represented a 
reasonable length of time for Mr Fs PPP fund with Provider A to grow  and match  or exceed  
the benefits provided by his OPS. Mr F also had the time and opportunity to make additional 
pension provision elsewhere.
At the time of the advice TenetConnect said the critical yield required to match Mr Fs OPS  
benefits at age 60 was 9.8% per year. This was the critical yield established in the 
independent actuarys Transfer Analysis  Report  and was based on Mr F not having a 
spouse. 
The other Transfer Analysis Report TenetConnect arranged  with Provider A said the critical 
yield required to match Mr Fs OPS benefits  at age 60 was 10.29%  per year. This was based 
on Mr F having  a spouse. 
So Mr Fs OPS  transfer value needed to grow somewhere between  a rate of 9.8% and 
10.29% for him not to be financially worse off by transferring. But if the transfer was only 
going to match the benefits given up thered be little point in transferring  so I think  there 
needed to be a reasonable prospect Mr F would be better off. That meant the critical yield 
would need to be over 9.8% and 10.29% to make  the transfer worthwhile.  
I dont think its reasonable to rely on the lower critical  yield figure as this was based on the 
assumption Mr F would  never  have  a spouse. And given Mr Fs age at the time I think it 
wouldve made more  sense to assume that he may marry later in life and want  to factor in 
some level of provision for this. So Ive considered whether a critical yield of 10.29% or more 
was reasonable  in the circumstances and a sound basis for the recommendation to transfer.
By way of background, in October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment 
Board (SIB), established  an industry-wide review of particular pension business  transacted 
Ref: DRN23194556by authorised firms between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. It was generally known as the 
"Pension Review".  It aimed to address  concerns about the possible widespread mis-selling 
of PPPs  during this period. The regulator  set down the broad methodology that firms who 
had sold these PPPs were required to follow when carrying out the review. Where  mis-
selling was identified,  the regulator  set down the method and assumptions that firms  had to 
use to determine  the level of any redress due. 
Although Mr Fs OPS transfer was outside of the Pension Review dates,  I think its 
reasonable to assess the suitability of the advice in-line with the Pension  Review Guidance. 
The regulator set out a financial viability test which  recorded upper limits of investment 
returns that were considered viable at the time.  Investment  returns of 11% or under were  
considered potentially viable. 
The rate of return determined to be appropriate varied depending on an individuals  
circumstances, especially their time to retirement  and when the transfer took place.  For the 
circumstances of this case the regulator stated that an investment return  of 10.9% should  be 
assumed. I therefore consider that at the time that Mr H was advised to transfer the critical 
yield of 10.29%  would have appeared to be acceptable. Indeed  the regulators guidance 
suggested a critical yield of this level was suitable  for someone with ten years until 
retirement. Mr F was twenty nine years away. So with the possibility of improving his pension  
benefits after a transfer, it was reasonable to consider moving  it.
Its worth  noting that 1994 guidance  the regulator  issued referred to the fact that judgements 
made at this time should  be regarded within the context of the time. Specifically the July 
1999 Pension transfers and opt outs review phase 2: Optional Compliance Test for transfer 
cases Policy statement and model  guidance (issued by the then regulator the Financial 
Conduct Authority) said:
the compliance transaction must  be judged against  the principles and rules in force  at the 
time of the sale () to make judgements on matters such  as future inflation and future 
investment returns,  the judgements should  be assessed against prevailing  expectations  at 
the time of sale. 
Based on this and from what  Ive seen it seems to me that TenetConnects transfer 
recommendation was reasonable  in the circumstances. Indeed TenetConnect had also 
relied on the Transfer Analysis Reports which said they reflected current  actuarial 
assumptions and were dependant on investment performance. TenetConnects suitability 
letter specifically said:
You will recall  that I suggested investment with [Provider A] in view of their excellent past 
performance with unit linked funds ().
Ive looked carefully  at the documentation Mr F was provided with regarding  the advice he 
received to transfer his OPS to a PPP. Having done  so I think  Mr F was made reasonably  
aware that projected returns werent guaranteed.  Indeed I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that TenetConnect provided any guarantee of the level his pension benefits might  
achieve if he transferred  to a PPP.
TenetConnects advice  letter to Mr F highlighted the risks associated with the recommended  
transfer. It said:
Ref: DRN23194557As discussed if the returns are higher than those  suggested then your benefits will be 
greater but if the returns are lower then the benefits  will be less ()
Having considered all of the options the decision to proceed with a transfer was taken 
principally on the following  grounds:
1) There is a reasonable chance  that over the longer term the rate of return that is required 
in order to match your [OPS] benefits  will be bettered by one of the leading pension  offices.  
This is on the basis of the past performances () It should however be borne  in mind that 
whilst past performance is one of the best indicators available  it cannot  be relied upon to be 
repeated in the future. 
Regarding where  Mr Fs funds would be transferred and invested TenetConnects letter to 
Mr F warned that he needed to be aware that the price of units in a managed fund can go 
down as well as up. 
Im also mindful that the form Mr Fs OPS provided  to enable Mr F to go ahead with the 
transfer contained the following warning:
These preserved pension  benefits  will, of course,  be enhanced by the relevant pension  
increases covering the period from your date of discharge from [the OPS] to the date the 
award is put into payment (and thereafter)  should you decide not to have your pension  rights 
transferred.
It should be made clear  that once you transfer  your accrued rights to another  pension  
scheme you cease to have any rights  to a pension award from the [OPS].
Mr F completed and signed the transfer  option  form, confirming  he wanted to transfer  out of 
his OPS and that he understood he was relinquishing his rights to any benefits from this 
scheme. 
Ive considered the suitability of the advice in relation to Mr Fs attitude to risk (ATR). Mr F 
says hes only ever had a fairly low knowledge and understanding  of investments and 
investment strategy.  Given  this and his circumstances at the time of the advice I think itd be 
reasonable to say Mr F was a balanced  investor.  At the time it would be typical  to accept 
some investment risk over such a long investment term. I cant  conclude that Mr F was risk 
averse. The PPP Mr F transferred to was invested  in Provider  As Mixed Fund. I dont  think  
this or the transfer itself could be considered unreasonable on this basis.
For the above reasons I am satisfied that the advice provided to Mr F was not unsuitable.  
While the decision to transfer the benefits did carry a degree of risk, these were  adequately 
conveyed to Mr F in documentation and there was a reasonable prospect, at the time,  that 
his funds would grow sufficiently to match  or exceed the benefits  from his ceding scheme.
I can understand why Mr F has raised  this complaint, given the shortfall  he may consider 
hes facing on his pension. But effectively I can only uphold  this complaint if any potential 
shortfall is due to risks that were already evident in 1994, and which  should  have  led to an 
adviser acting with reasonable care and skill advising Mr F differently at that time. I cant 
uphold the complaint only because investment returns have turned out to be much  worse 
than a reasonable adviser in 1994  might have anticipated.
Ref: DRN23194558I dont think it is reasonable to say that in 1994  the adviser should have foreseen that 
interest rates would fall so significantly. Interest rates are currently  at historically low levels.  
This means  that the annuity Mr Fs pension pot can purchase is much lower  than could have 
reasonably been foreseen in 1994.
I do empathise with Mr F but I am not satisfied the advice provided by TenetConnect was 
unreasonable at the time it was given. I have to assess the advice  by reference to the 
standards at the time.
The financial  environment in which Mr F received the 1994 advice hes now complaining 
about was very different compared to how it is today. Interest rates,  inflation,  annuity rates  
and expected investments returns were considerably higher before than they are now. And 
in addition to this the regulatory obligations  on advisers in 1994 were  less stringent than 
those which  apply today.   
It wouldnt be fair or reasonable to retrospectively  apply todays standards to 1994. And 
because of this I have to reach my decision based on the circumstances at the time of 
advice and on what was then expected of both advisers and consumers.  It wouldnt be 
appropriate to use the benefit  of hindsight. 
I invited Mr F and TenetConnect to comment on my provisional decision.
TenetConnect responded and said it agreed  with my findings. Mr F responded and in 
summary said:
a number of factors  showed he wasnt given accurate  or comprehensive  advice by 
TenetConnect
the risks associated with the transfer recommendation werent brought  to Mr Fs 
attention in an acceptable manner
TenetConnect failed  to mention,  let alone explain the risks and benefits  of Mr Fs 
available options, in particular the option to transfer to a Section 32 policy
the existence of the Transfer Club wasnt brought to Mr Fs attention. And if it had 
been it would probably have been  a deciding factor in Mr F not transferring  out of his 
OPS
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, my decision remains  
broadly the same as before (and as set out above). That means Im not upholding Mr Fs 
complaint for the reasons Ive given. However Ill respond to some of the points Mr F has 
made following my provisional decision. While I wont  be responding to every single point 
made, I have  carefully considered all that has been  said. 
Im unable to agree  that the risks associated with Mr F transferring his OPS to a PPP werent 
brought to his attention  in an acceptable  manner. I consider  the following 
statements/representations made  to Mr F not only by TenetConnect but also his former 
employer to be clear:
TenetConnect said:
Ref: DRN23194559As discussed if the returns are higher than those  suggested then your benefits will be 
greater but if the returns are lower then the benefits  will be less ()
Having considered all of the options the decision to proceed with a transfer was taken 
principally on the following  grounds:
1)There is a reasonable  chance that over the longer term the rate of return  that is 
required in order to match your [OPS] benefits will be bettered  by one of the leading 
pension offices.  This is on the basis of the past performances () It should however 
be borne  in mind  that whilst past performance is one of the best indicators available  it 
cannot be relied upon to be repeated in the future () 
2)You are prepared to forego the rights and benefits to which you are entitled to under  
[Mr Fs OPS] ()
be aware that the price of units in a managed fund can go down as well as up.
Mr Fs former employer said:
() You may also wish to be reminded of your pension entitlement  ()
These preserved pension benefits  will, of course,  be enhanced by the relevant  pension 
increases covering the period from your date of discharge from [the OPS] to the date the 
award is put into payment (and thereafter)  should you decide not to have your pension  rights 
transferred.
It should be made clear  that once you transfer  your accrued rights to another  pension  
scheme you cease to have any rights  to a pension award from the [OPS]. ().
Mr F completed and signed the form his former employer provided to confirm he still wanted  
to transfer out of his OPS and that he understood he was relinquishing his rights to any 
benefits from this scheme.
The decision  to transfer his OPS benefits  did carry a degree of risk; I think these were  
adequately conveyed to Mr F. There was also a reasonable prospect, at the time that in a 
PPP the funds  would  grow sufficiently to match or exceed the benefits  from Mr Fs ceding 
scheme.
Regarding Mr Fs options at the time of the advice, Im satisfied these were made sufficiently 
clear. From the available evident its clear that in 1994 discussions took place beyond the 
documentation which  now remains. Its not possible for me to know  what  exactly was 
discussed at the time but from what I can see I think Mr F was made aware of his options.  
Indeed TenetConnects letter to Mr F said:
(A) YOUR  OPTIONS
As we discussed the report sets out the basic options available to you in respect of your 
benefits which are as follows:-
1)Leave the benefits with (the OPS)  
2)Transfer to your new employers scheme
3)Transfer to a personal pension arrangement
Ref: DRN231945510Option 2 above is not appropriate for you as you are not in your employers scheme and 
your job security is poor in view of the impending closure of [Mr Fs former employer] ()
Having considered all the option  the decision to proceed with a transfer was taken principally 
on the following  grounds ()
Mr F has said to the option of transferring  to a Section 32 Policy wasnt sufficiently 
considered. But Im mindful  that TenetConnects letter following its meeting with Mr F does 
say:
As we discussed  there  are two ways in which the transfer can proceed  either  as a 
straightforward personal pension or by using a section  32 buy-out arrangement ()
As I said in my provisional decision,  I think its reasonable to expect that if anything in 
TenetConnects letter was incorrect, inaccurate, incomplete or absent  that Mr F would have  
queried the matter  further and not gone ahead with TenetConnects recommendation. But Mr 
F did choose  to proceed with the recommended transfer. And theres nothing to suggest he 
queried or disputed the contents of TenetConnects letter. Based on this Im satisfied the 
Section 32 option  was discussed and taken into account. A Section 32 policy  wouldve 
provided Mr F with a Guaranteed Minimum Pension  (GMP) but I dont think this means  the 
PPP recommendation was unsuitable.
Mr F has suggested  that TenetConnect not mentioning the huge  importance of the Transfer  
Club at the time of the advice demonstrates  the advice was questionable.  Im unable  to 
agree. I appreciate  that if Mr F intended  to re-join another public sector  scheme, he couldve 
benefited from the potential to link deferred  benefits to current service and salary. However I 
dont think this is relevant  here. At the time of the advice  Mr F has said there was no pension 
scheme available to him with his new employer. This is confirmed in TenetConnects 
paperwork. 
So while Mr F now says hed now  jump at the chance to re-join the armed  forces or 
consider other occupations that are part of the Transfer Club, the fact remains that this 
wasnt relevant at the time of the advice. There was no continuity  of service which Mr F 
could take advantage of. So I dont agree that the possibility was as important at the time as 
has now been suggested. Or that, if the Transfer Club had been  discussed, Mr F would have 
decided against  transferring.
The declaration Mr F signed at the time of the advice also confirmed he understood the 
following:
It should  be made clear that once  you transfer  your accrued rights to another pension 
scheme you cease to have any rights  to a pension award from the [OPS]. () Should you 
subsequently rejoin the armed forces and re-transfer your pensionable  service to the [OPS],  
the resulting transfer value could purchase  fewer years of service than you actually served 
during your earlier engagement ().
The material  issue is whether it was suitable  to advise  Mr F to transfer his OPS  benefits 
bearing in mind his situation at the time.  I am persuaded that TenetConnect provided 
sufficient explanation of the factors that needed to be considered when looking at the 
transfer of pension benefits from a guaranteed environment to one of investment  risk and the 
potential for rises and falls in the value of the fund. And, as I said in my provisional decision, 
I think there was, at the time, a reasonable prospect  that the transfer  would result  in 
Ref: DRN231945511improved retirement benefits for Mr F. I can of course understand why Mr F is unhappy if it 
hasnt worked out like that but I dont think that means, judged without the benefit of 
hindsight, that the advice  to transfer was unsuitable at the time. 
In the circumstances and given the limited information available from the time of the transfer  
I have concluded  that there isnt enough  evidence to safely  conclude that the advice to 
transfer was inappropriate.
Overall, I dont  think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2319455