K821x#15complaint
T have complained  about S & J Palmer  Ltds  (SJP) handling  of Ts commercial motor vehicle 
insurance policies.
T are represented in their complaint. But, for ease, I will refer to the representatives  
comments as being those of T.
background
I issued two provisional decisions in this complaint, the first on 19 December 2019, and the 
second on 18 March  2020. Both are appended to this decision in full and set out the 
complaint background and my provisional findings.
I grouped and addressed Ts complaints under the following four headings:
1.Suitability of the policies
2.The loans and cancellation of the policies
3.The reporting of claims
4.Removing  vans  from the policies
For the reasons  explained in my provisional decisions, I upheld  Ts complaints in relation to 
points 1 and 2. I didnt uphold point  3 and T decided to not pursue point 4.
SJP disagreed with my provisional findings  in relation to points 1 and 2. They said the 
policies they arranged for T were suitable  for them and their actions  in relation to the loans 
arranged to finance the policies and the subsequent cancellation of the policies were  
reasonable. But SJP said in the interest of bringing the dispute to a conclusion they were 
prepared to accept  my decision.
T agreed with my provisional decision to uphold their complaint points 1 and 2. But they 
disagreed with my decision to not uphold point  3.
In my first provisional decision  I said:  
before I can make a direction as to the appropriate  remedy, I require T to provide me 
with detailed information, with any supporting evidence, explaining how they say the 
issues I intend to uphold [points 1 and 2] have impacted them; what  loss (if any) they 
suffered; and how they feel they should  be compensated.
And:
Once Ive received the requested information  from both parties, I will issue a further 
provisional decision incorporating any relevant information Ive been  provided and my 
views on compensation.  That will give the parties the opportunity  to comment  further 
before I issue my final decision.
T said that quantifying their loss was difficult.  But they said the following:
The cost of insuring  each van through SJP was £3,000. But following the cancellation  
of the policies by SJP in February 2017, the cost per van on their new fleet policy 
was £4,400, an increase of £1,400 more per van. T said that increase was as a result  
Ref: DRN22378622of the urgent need for alternate insurance to be arranged The new fleet policy 
started with 28 vans.
On cancellation,  SJP failed to return the premium refund due to T. T estimated the 
refund they were  due to be around £23,500.
T suffered  losses  due to the legal dispute  they had with the company they hired their 
vans from. Thats because the claims were not paid which resulted in the van hire 
company taking action  against T. This relates to complaint point 3 which  I didnt 
uphold.
Hurt to their business reputation, increased accountancy fees,  interest cannot be 
easily quantified but nevertheless need to be accounted for in the quantum 
calculation.
Finally statutory interest needs to be added from 2017  until such  time as any FOS 
award is actually paid by SJP. 
SJP said Ts claimed losses were unsubstantiated.  SJPs  response to each of the points 
made by T in the five bullet  points, above,  are as follows:
T have said their new policy cost £1,400 more per van. But they would need to 
evidence that cheaper cover would have been available, which they havent.  
T were  not due a premium refund on cancellation. SJP did receive  a premium refund 
of just over £9,000  from the underwriter. But once that was deducted from the 
amount T still owed  for the policies, T still owed SJP almost £60,000 in premiums for 
the time on cover they benefitted  from.
SJP were not responsible for the van hire company taking action against T and 
therefore SJP were not responsible for any losses arising from that action.
The reputational  damage to T's business is pure conjecture and should not be 
considered. If they have arranged alternative cover,  how is there any reputational 
damage? I fail to see how this would result in increased accountancy  fees. 
T are not entitled  to any interest  payments.  
SJP concluded  by saying:
We understand that the ombudsman's decisions are to put the client  in the position 
they would  have been in had the issues not occurred. Although we do not agree with 
the outcome,  we would  like to make the point that even if we do accept that a fleet 
policy would have been more suitable, the customer would still have had to pay the 
appropriate premium  for this policy. In addition, they would  need to pay the time on 
risk charge  (even if we assume  this is entirely pro-rata)  for the previous policy as 
cover was held and was in force  for all vehicles prior to cancellation.  As it stands, T 
has only partially paid the time on risk charge for this period. We feel that our offer to 
waive the remaining  time on risk charges is more than reasonable, as T will in effect 
be receiving a benefit that they were not entitled to (i.e. they have not paid in full for 
cover held).
Having considered the parties further  submissions,  and their comments  in relation to losses 
T said they suffered, I issued my second provisional  decision on 18 March  2020. As 
mentioned above,  my second provisional decision is appended. But, in summary, I said:
I maintained my decision to uphold  the Ts complaint that the policies arranged  by 
SJP were unsuitable for T. But I said: I dont  intend  to make a compensatory award 
under this head, because I havent  been  provided with any convincing evidence  as to 
what loss, if any, T suffered as a result of SJP arranging unsuitable  policies.
Ref: DRN22378623I maintained my decision to uphold  Ts complaint that SJPs handling of the loans 
and cancellation  of the policies  wasnt reasonable. By cancelling the seven  policies 
unreasonably SJP deprived  T of the benefit of using those policies for the remainder 
of their terms. For that reason I said SJP should  calculate the premium for the 
unused portion of each  of the seven  policies. That being the period each policy was 
cancelled on 15 February 2017  until the date on which each  one was scheduled to 
lapse. Under each policy where  a van was removed from cover,  T were  entitled to a 
pro-rata refund.  But if the van in question was subject  to a claim,  T were  not entitled  
to a pro-rata refund. But given my decision  that the cancellation was unreasonable, I 
said that SJP should  carry out the calculation for every van to see if T were  entitled to 
a pro-rata refund.  I said that calculation should include vans that were  subject to 
claims which, ordinarily under  the policy, wouldnt have entitled  T to a refund. I 
agreed with SJP that T should pay their premiums for the time their vans were on 
cover. But I didnt agree with them that on cancellation T were obliged  to pay the full 
premium on each  of the seven  policies until their scheduled  end dates. Because to 
do so would have  meant that T were  paying  for cover twice during an overlapping 
period. I say twice  because they would have been paying for their new fleet policy 
and for the cancelled  policies with SJP. And the seven cancelled  policies had unused  
periods remaining ranging between seven  weeks to nine months. I said that if SJPs  
calculations showed that the total premiums  T paid for all seven policies (up to the 
point of cancellation)  was higher  than the cost of the total premiums for the time on 
cover for all the vans on all seven policies, then SJP should refund T the difference 
together with simple  interest at 8% a year from 15 February  2017  (the date all the 
policies were cancelled) until payment is made.
In relation to the third complaint point about the reporting of claims,  for the reasons 
given in my first provisional decision,  I maintained my intended decision to not uphold 
that.
In April 2020, SJP completed the calculation I asked for and produced a spreadsheet 
showing the cost of every van insured on all seven policies during the time they were active. 
It showed when  each van was put on cover; how many  days  it was on cover; its annual 
premium; the admin fee applicable for the van; and the pro-rata  cost for the number  of days 
the van was on cover. SJPs calculation showed that the pro-rata cost of all the vans T had 
on cover  across all seven  policies was £71,752.10. SJP said T paid premiums totalling 
£56,227.01. SJP therefore concluded that there  was a shortfall of £15,525.09.  In other 
words, T paid £15,525.09 less than they should have for the time all their vans were on 
cover. That meant T were not entitled to a premium refund.
Our service provided T with a copy of SJPs spreadsheet for comment.  T commented on 
SJPs calculations as follows:
There appeared to be a number of anomalies that needed further  investigation.
Because SJP are in possession of the information that was used to prepare the 
spreadsheet its very difficult  to interrogate or to prove/disprove its accuracy.
T believe  SJPs  spreadsheet is impossible to accurately check and there are 
questions on its accuracy.  So, T dont believe this is the right basis  for an award  
calculation. 
T feel a fairer approach would be to take the cost of the new fleet policy  they took out 
in February 2017 and for SJP to pay the pro-rata cost of that policy  up until the 
natural expiry date of the SJP policies  so that the unilateral  and unfair  mid-term 
cancellation by SJP could be remedied. T said that as the seven SJP policies ranged 
in expiry from April to November 2016  that it would be fairer to SJP if a mid-point 
Ref: DRN22378624date was used  rather than run the calculation to November 2017(the expiry date of 
the sixth and seventh policies).
In an email to us dated 18 May 2020, T said: Following on from previous email, can I 
also add that we did not agree with the payment information provided  by [SJP]. We 
had a different  slightly higher figure which again  calls into question  the accuracy of 
their data.  [The underlined text is my emphasis]
T also made some further comments in relation to some of the other complaint heads:
I had said in my provisional decisions that while I felt the policies arranged  by SJP 
were unsuitable  for T (point  1), no compensatory award should be made as T hadnt  
proven that they had suffered a loss. T disagreed with me.
I had said that given the underwriter  hadnt paid Ts claims on the policy  even after 
the underwriter had all the relevant claims details  meant that even if SJP had 
reported all the claims to the underwriter expeditiously it would have made  no 
difference (point 3). T disagreed  with me and said a policy  of insurance can only be 
suitable if it pays out valid claims and we do assert  that part of the intermediary [SJP] 
duty of care is to source suitable cover  - part of which  is the claims paying ability of 
not the insurer but the middleman [name of the policy administrator] who had full 
claims settlement and payment delegated authority vested in them by the end 
insurer.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. Ill explain why.
suitability of the policies (point 1)
For the reasons  explained in my two provisional  decisions, I upheld Ts complaint that the 
policies arranged by SJP were unsuitable. And for the same reasons I maintain that 
decision. But Im not making an award  for compensation.
In my first provisional decision  I said:  before I can make a direction as to the appropriate 
remedy, I require T to provide me with detailed information, with any supporting  evidence,  
explaining how they say the issues I intend to uphold have impacted them;  what loss (if any) 
they suffered;  and how they feel they should  be compensated.
T havent  provided  me with any convincing evidence  that they suffered a loss as a result  of 
the policies being unsuitable.  T have said that under their new fleet policy the premium for 
each van cost them £1,400 more than the cost per van under the SJP policies. But T havent 
shown me evidence that the cost per van under a fleet policy would have been cheaper at 
the time the SJP policies were incepted. So they haven't demonstrated  any actual loss.
the loans and cancellation of the policies (point 2)
The evidence provided by SJP shows that T were not due a premium  refund. The premiums  
paid by T didnt fully cover  the time on risk of their vans. According  to SJPs spreadsheet Ts 
premium payments fell short by £15,525.09. T questioned the accuracy and reliability  of 
SJPs calculations. But I note that T said: we did not agree with the payment information 
Ref: DRN22378625provided by [SJP]. We had a different  slightly  higher figure which  again calls into question 
the accuracy of their data. [The underlined text is my emphasis]. 
Its not clear to me if T meant the shortfall  figure was slightly higher or if the premium 
payments made by T were slightly higher. And T hasn't  provided  me with any evidence 
beyond their comments in support of that. But which ever it is, Ts comment  suggests  that, 
even though they question SJPs calculations, SJPs figures are only slightly  out. So, it 
would appear  that Ts premium payments didnt cover the time on risk for all their vans 
across the seven policies,  which means they werent  due a refund.
I will now comment on Ts suggestion that a fairer approach would be to take the cost of the 
new fleet policy they took out in February 2017  and for SJP to pay the pro-rata cost of that 
policy up until the natural expiry  date of the SJP policies. But I dont think thats a fair 
approach. On SJPs  calculations, at the time the policies were cancelled, T had paid around 
£15,000 less for the time their vans were on cover. So, if as suggested by T, SJP were to 
pay Ts premiums for their new fleet policy that would  better  Ts position. Thats because not 
only would  they be free from the SJP policies  having  paid around  £15,000  less for the time 
on cover,  but they would also get part of their new fleet policys  premium paid for them by 
SJP. That would mean T would have a period of time where they didnt  pay anything for their 
insurance cover. 
the reporting of claims (point 3)
For the reasons  explained in my provisional decisions, I didnt uphold  this aspect of Ts 
complaint. SJP did have  a role in the claims process, namely that they had to obtain the 
claims details  from T and pass them onto the underwriters claims handler/administrator. But 
as I explained,  there  were  problems on the underwriters end. And even after the claims 
details were given  to the underwriter Ts claims werent paid.  The underwriter had ample  
time to deal with those  claims  but they didnt, and they subsequently went  into 
administration. I therefore think that even if SJP had passed on the claims details  in a timely 
manner, given the problems experienced by the underwriter, Ts claims still wouldnt have 
been paid.
On this point T have  said that a policy  of insurance can only be suitable  if it pays out valid 
claims and we do assert that part of the intermediary [SJP] duty of care is to source  suitable  
cover - part of which is the claims paying  ability of not the insurer but the middleman [name 
of the policy  administrator] who had full claims settlement and payment delegated  authority 
vested in them by the end insurer.  I disagree  with T. The ultimate responsibility for paying 
Ts claims was with the underwriter and not SJP.  And SJP cannot be held responsible  for the 
underwriter or indeed their other agents.  I therefore dont uphold this part of the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part, namely in relation to Ts 
complaint points 1 (suitability) and 2 (loans and cancellation). But Im not asking S & J 
Palmer Ltd to take any action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H, on behalf  of 
T, to accept or reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Ref: DRN22378626Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN22378627Appended
First Provisional Decision dated 19 December 2019
complaint
T have complained  about S & J Palmer  Ltds  (SJP) handling  of Ts commercial motor vehicle 
insurance policies.
T are represented in their complaint. But, for ease, I will refer to the representatives  
comments as being those of T.
background
T, a courier company,  were created at the end of 2015. Their two directors  were Mr F, who 
dealt with the vans and insurance  side of the business,  and Mr H, who dealt  with other 
aspects of the business. I understand that T hired  rather than owned or leased  most, if not 
all, of their vans.  To carry out deliveries they engaged  a number of self-employed drivers.
In early 2016, T appointed SJP, an independent  insurance broker, to advise  and assist  them  
in getting insurance  cover  for their vans.  SJP, acting  as credit broker, were also to arrange 
the finance T needed to pay for the insurance.  
SJP arranged a number of commercial vehicle  insurance policies for T. The policies were  
underwritten by another company (the insurer).  The first policy  started in April 2016  and a 
number more followed as T grew their business  and the number of their vans  increased. SJP 
said that a maximum of 10 vehicles could be added  to each  policy before the next policy 
would have to be taken out. In total,  seven separate policies  were taken out with each 
covering a number  of vans. While each of the seven policies was intended to run for 
12 months, SJP cancelled them all on 15 February  2017, before their scheduled end dates. 
The start and intended  end dates  of the seven  policies were as follows:
Policy 1  22 April 2016 to 21 April 2017
Policy 2  10 June 2016  to 9 June 2017
Policy 3  17 June 2016  to 16 June 2017
Policy 4  23 June 2016  to 22 June 2017
Policy 5  21 October 2016 to 20 October 2017
Policy 6  26 November 2016 to 25 November 2017
Policy 7  28 November 2016 to 27 November 2017
Numerous amendments were made  to the policies, for example when vehicles  and drivers 
were added or removed.
SJP also arranged loans  from a finance provider  for T to pay for the insurance  policies. I 
understand that after the first loan was taken out for the first policy, a number of additional  
loans were taken out to pay for the subsequent  policies and for the additional premiums  
charged on existing  policies, for example  where  additional vans  were added  to a policy.
SJP said they provided a one-stop service  in that they would assist  T with any claim they 
may have.  SJP charged T an additional fee for this service and provided  a dedicated 
telephone claims  line for T to report claims.  The insurer  had appointed another  company to 
handle the claims  (the claims  handler). I understand the process  to be followed was: T would 
Ref: DRN22378628report accidents or incidents that gave rise to a claim to SJP; and SJP would then pass on 
the information to the insurers claims handler who would process the claim.
T said they realised around September 2016 that things were  going wrong. One of the main 
problems was, other than their claims not being paid, that their loan payments for the finance 
SJP had arranged  were increasing and that T were having cash  flow problems. T said they 
raised their concerns  with SJP who told T that they had arranged with the finance provider to 
split Ts loan payments  from once a month to twice a month, to help with Ts cash  flow. T 
said they later found out (around January 2017) that rather than splitting the single loan 
payments into two monthly  payments, SJP had cancelled the original loan and set up two 
new loans in October 2016.  The repayments  on those loans were two weeks  apart, which  
gave the impression that the single loan payments had been split into two.
In November 2016, when SJP set up two further policies, they arranged  two further loans to 
pay for the additional  premiums. 
T said they discovered that when arranging the original April, October and November 2016 
loans, SJP had told the finance  provider that the policies were being  underwritten by insurers 
that were unconnected to the policies. T said SJP did that because they knew the finance 
provider was unlikely  to have given T loans had they known who the actual underwriter of 
their policies was. T suggested SJP did that to ensure they earned commission  for arranging 
the loans.
SJP accepted that they used other insurers details when taking out the loans, but they said 
they didnt do so fraudulently or to make a gain.  They said they acted in the best interests  of 
T at all times and with the intention of helping  Ts cash flow problems. SJP said T knew  that 
SJP had cancelled  the April loan and that two October loans had been set up. And that T 
also knew SJP hadnt used the actual  insurers name but instead used other insurers when  
arranging the loans. SJP said Mr F, who had signed the April and October  2016  loan 
agreements on Ts behalf, was fully aware  and in agreement with what had been done. SJP 
said the reason  they used other insurers details was because  when setting up the loans, 
they (SJP) had to declare who the insurer was. But they said the actual insurer wasnt 
available to choose from the finance companys list of insurers,  so SJP selected other 
insurers.
T also said that the policies SJP had arranged werent suitable for them. They  said that a 
single fleet policy should have been  arranged rather than seven individual  policies that had 
different start and end dates. T said that it would have been much easier to manage  a single 
fleet policy. And that it was better for cash flow purposes given vehicles added to a fleet 
policy were charged pro-rata for the remainder of the policy  term (as opposed to taking  out a 
new 12 month policy) and additional charges were  billed quarterly. 
In early January  2017, as T were unhappy  with how things were going,  they decided  to use 
another broker and told SJP. In response, on 17 January 2017, SJPs director  met with Mr H 
and Mr W, who had taken over Mr Fs responsibilities for Ts insurance matters, at Ts 
offices. SJP said during  that meeting the parties agreed for SJP to cancel the two October 
and two November  2016 loans and to replace them with four new loans with payments one 
week apart. SJP said they also gave  T a payment break of a month. SJP said that setting up 
four new loans a week apart was intended  to help T with their cash  flow problems as it would 
have meant  their payments to the finance  provider would be spread over four payments a 
month. T said that while SJP did say during the meeting  that their payments  would  be 
changed from two to four a month, SJP didnt tell T that they would cancel the existing  two 
Ref: DRN22378629loans and set up four new ones. SJP said that they also discussed  the outstanding  claims for 
damage to Ts vans and also the issue of identifying Ts current  vans  to ensure vans  not 
being used by T were  not unnecessarily being  insured.
T said that during  January  2017,  they were being assisted by the other broker they wanted 
to take over from SJP.  And that contact was made with the finance  provider  of the loans  and 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  over SJPs handling of the loans. T said that given 
their concerns about the fraud  over the loans,  they were advised to cease contact with 
SJP. 
SJP said that on 25 January  2017, they cancelled the October and November loans and set 
up four new loans on the same day. The new loan agreements,  like before, said that insurers  
other than the actual  insurer  had underwritten the policies. SJP said that for the four new 
loans to become  effective,  T had to sign the four new loan agreements. SJP said they 
repeatedly asked T to sign the new agreements but T ignored  SJP. SJP said after several 
attempts they wrote to T on 8 February  2017. In that letter SJP said that as the credit 
agreement had been  cancelled and the finance  provider  requested  payment of the 
outstanding balance, unless T paid the balance by 15 February 2017, the insurance policies 
would be cancelled. On 15 February,  SJP cancelled  all seven of Ts insurance  policies. T 
said that they only found out about the cancellations  the following day on 16 February.  So 
their vans  had been driven  while uninsured.  On 17 February, Ts new broker  arranged  a 
single fleet policy.
T said that at the time of the policies being  cancelled, they werent  in arrears on their loan 
payments, that their direct  debits to the finance  provider  were still in place and that they were 
willing and able to pay their monthly instalments.
SJP said that on cancellation of the seven policies, the total premiums  due by T for the time 
they were on cover  was just over £123,000. SJP said T only paid around £55,000 (T said 
they paid almost £57,000) of the premiums which meant SJP had to pay the insurer  the 
shortfall of just under £68,000.  When the loans were taken out, the finance provider had paid 
all the loan amounts  to SJP. And SJP had in turn paid the insurer  for the premiums on Ts 
behalf. Once the loans  were cancelled, the balance of the loans became due to the finance 
provider, which I understand was just over £82,000. I understand that SJP received some  
premium refunds from the insurer for some  of the policies because  they had been cancelled  
early. I also understand  that SJP paid the finance provider the outstanding  balance of the 
cancelled loans. SJP said they were out of pocket  by around £68,000 because they had to 
ensure both the finance providers cancellation  balance was paid and the insurers  premiums 
for Ts time on cover were  paid.  So SJP said T should pay them (SJP) that amount.
T complained, but SJP didnt uphold it saying  they hadnt done anything wrong. T didn't think  
that was fair, so they brought their complaint  to us. T said:
The seven individual policies SJP set up were unsuitable for T. A single fleet policy  
should have been  set up instead.  
The loans SJP set up were fraudulent and with a view of earning commission.
SJP failed to pass  on details of a number  of claims to the insurers claims handler in 
a timely  manner, which contributed to those claims not being processed and settled. 
Due to non-payment  of claims, T suffered financial problems and was forced to take 
out loans to keep their business  running.
SJP failed to amend  policies to remove vans that were no longer being used by T, 
which contributed  to higher costs.
Ref: DRN223786210SJP wrongly cancelled the insurance  policies.
One of our investigators  looked into Ts complaint.  She felt that:
The policies SJP arranged were suitable.
Using other insurers details to set up the loans wasnt best practice,  but that didnt 
have an adverse financial impact on T.
The cancellation of the loans in January  2017 didnt cause T any financial loss as 
they could have continued paying  for them.
Of the claims T reported to SJP, SJP failed  to pass  on only one to the insurers 
claims handler in a timely manner.
There wasnt convincing evidence to show  that SJP failed to amend policies to 
remove vans that were no longer being used by T.
SJP were wrong to cancel the insurance  policies,  because even though  the loans 
had been cancelled, T were not in arrears  and could have continued paying the 
loans.
As neither T nor SJP agreed with our investigator, the complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold this 
complaint in part. Ill explain.
the suitability of the policies
I understand that T told SJP that they intended  to hire the vans that were  to be insured.  T 
also told SJP that they intended to expand their business fairly quickly  and increase the 
number of vans that needed  insuring. Given Ts plans,  I think SJP should  have arranged a 
policy that catered  for Ts needs, in particular their rapid expansion and increase in vans, 
and the need to regularly  add and remove vans, which I understand is common  practice with 
a courier business.  Being a new business,  I think Ts cash  flow should have also been  a 
significant consideration. Equally, I think being a new business with no proven track record  
Ts business  might  not have taken off in which case they might  not have wanted  to continue 
their insurance beyond the first year. For the reasons Ill explain below, I think the way SJP 
arranged Ts policies  meant that T would have  been  tied to the insurer  for more than the 
initial 12 month period.  And because of the way the policies were arranged,  SJP advised T 
to let the policies run their course,  which  would  have meant T were stuck with the same  
insurer beyond the first year. But I think that having flexibility  and not being  tied to the same 
insurer for longer  than a year would have  been  to Ts benefit. I think  T, like any policyholder,  
would have wanted the flexibility  of being able to shop around for a different policy  with a 
different insurer at the end of their first year.
T said that a single fleet policy was more suitable  for their needs rather  than a number of 
individual policies.  T said that a fleet policy would have put less of a financial strain on them  
compared to the policies  SJP arranged. And that a fleet policy  would have been much easier 
to manage given there would have only been one start and one end date, compared  to 
having several individual policies that start and end on different dates.
Ref: DRN223786211With a fleet policy the premium for any new van added after the policy has started will 
usually be charged  on a pro-rata basis  for the remainder  of the policy  term. Not only does 
that mean the newly added vans cover will come to an end at the same time as all the other  
vehicles, but it also means the cost of its cover  will be lower than a full years premium.  To 
illustrate the point,  the fifth policy SJP arranged  started with four vans on 21 October 2016, 
almost exactly  six months after the start of the first policy.  Because it was a separate  new 
policy the premiums charged for those four vans were for a whole year.  But had there  been  
one fleet policy,  the cover for the four new vans added in October would have ended on the 
same date as the first batch of vans insured six months earlier.  So, T would  have only been 
charged pro-rata for the remaining six months  of the fleet policy for the extra  four vans  and 
not a full year. Given on average  each  van cost T around £3,000 a year to insure  under  the 
policies SJP arranged,  assuming the cost would have been similar under a fleet policy,  it 
would have meant that T would have borrowed around £6,000 less (£1,500  per van for six 
months) to insure those four vans in October  2016. That would have been to Ts financial 
benefit given they would  have taken on less debt. Furthermore, I understand that many 
insurers of fleet policies invoice their policyholders  quarterly for amendments, such as where 
additional vehicles  are added or removed. So, in Ts case, with the addition  of those four 
vans in October 2016, if they had a fleet policy, T wouldnt have had to pay for the additional 
premiums until the next quarterly invoice, which could  have  been  beneficial for Ts cash flow.
I should say that when  a new van was added to any of Ts seven existing policies after they 
had started, the additional premium  was charged  on a pro-rata basis  until the end of that 
particular policy. But, as Ive explained  above, that wasnt the case whenever new 12 month  
policies were set up to cover new vans. Vans  added  to new policies at the start were  
charged premiums for the full 12 months. Which is why T ended up with seven separate  
policies with seven  separate  start and end dates. And although SJP said that each  policy 
they set up had a 10 van limit before  a new policy had to be created, I note that on a number 
of occasions SJP set up the next new policy before the previous policy had reached its tenth 
van. For example,  the third policy started on 17 June 2016, while at the time the second 
policy only had one insured van; and the seventh  policy started on 28 November 2016, while  
the sixth policy only had five vans insured. That shouldnt have happened because  every 
time a new policy  was started  it meant  T were tied to the insurer for a further new 12 month 
period and that the vans added to the new policy at the start attracted a premium  charge for 
the full 12 months,  rather than pro-rata.  Its not clear to me why that happened.  
In their final response letter (FRL), SJP said that at the time the first policy was set up with 
three vans there was an understanding that if the company grows as quickly  as you thought  
it would  we could  look to arrange  a fleet policy at a later date. Within four weeks  four more 
vans were added to the policy. And in the fifth week a further three  vans were added. In their 
FRL, SJP said further vehicles were then added to the policy until on the 31st of May 2016 
you reached [the policys] limit of 10 vehicles. At this point a discussion was had with [Mr A] 
advising that a Fleet policy  would probably  be the best course of action and that I would 
approach our panel of insurers to begin  obtaining  quotations. SJPs comments demonstrate 
that they knew from the beginning  that T intended to expand  their business quickly  and that 
a fleet policy  was the best course of action  once the number of vans increased.  So at that 
stage, it would have  been beneficial for the next policy they arranged  to be a fleet policy  that 
allowed for a greater number of vans  to be insured. That way T could have added their other 
vans to it when their original policy lapsed. But SJP didnt  do that. 
SJP further said that when in October  2016  T asked to have more vans insured, at which  
point they had almost  50 vans, SJP suggested that a Fleet policy  covering all your vehicles 
would be more suitable.  But SJP said that they advised T against taking out a fleet policy  at 
Ref: DRN223786212that stage because several  claims had by that point been reported and settled by the insurer, 
which meant T couldnt get a premium refund.  SJP went  onto say that their advice to T was, 
if they took out a fleet policy at that stage: not only would you need  to pay for a new fleet 
policy you would also need  to continue paying for the cancelled [current policies] due to the 
outstanding claims.  It was again agreed that we should allow  the policies to run until renewal 
and then look to arrange fleet cover at that point. A new policy  was again incepted with the 
current insurer. But while that might  have been  the case, rather  than setting up the new 
policy that they did, SJP could  have  begun a fleet policy at that stage, which  would have 
allowed T to add their other vans to that fleet policy as and when their other policies lapsed. 
But it seems  SJPs approach was simply to keep setting up new individual  policies. 
But SJP knew from the beginning that T intended  to grow their business  and increase the 
number of their vans quickly. And they accept that a fleet policy  was more suitable with 
increased numbers  of vans. So, I tend to agree with T that a fleet policy from the beginning 
would have been more suitable  rather than a number of individual  policies. SJP said that 
what prevented them  from taking out a fleet policy in October 2016 was the fact that at that 
stage T had a number  of claims on their policies which  meant T couldnt get premium 
refunds. And if they started a fleet policy at that stage they would  have effectively been 
paying twice, for the new fleet policy and for the existing policies. But when SJP arranged 
the individual policies, having  accepted they were aware that T intended to expand  quickly 
and that a fleet policy was more suitable for multiple vans, SJP should have known that 
there was a strong likelihood  that T would be making claims on their policies (given it was a 
courier business), which  would be an obstacle  to getting premium refunds in the event that T 
wanted to cancel the policies early. So, knowing what  they knew  at the time, I think SJP 
should have set up a fleet policy from the start. Alternatively, they could  have done  so from 
June 2016 or even  October 2016, when they realised that further policies would be required.  
SJP said in October 2016 that, despite believing a fleet policy  was more suitable for T, they 
advised T to allow the policies to run until renewal and then look to arrange fleet cover at 
that point.  But SJP at that point incepted  a new 12 month policy  with the existing insurer. 
So, what  SJP effectively  did was to prolong by a further 12 months  those vans  being added  
to a fleet policy. And SJP should  have  known that there was a strong likelihood  that T would 
have made  claims on their October 2016  policy. And if that happened, using SJPs 
reasoning for not taking out a fleet policy  in October, namely that they would be financially 
worse off cancelling a policy where  a premium refund couldnt be obtained, T would have 
been stuck with an unsuitable  policy for a further 12 months. And in November 2016,  SJP 
incepted a further two new 12 month policies for T. So, again, SJP sold T policies they knew  
werent most  suitable for T and for which SJP knew would  tie T into the insurer for a further 
12 months.
Its not clear why SJP,  from the moment they acknowledged a fleet policy would have served  
Ts interests better, didnt  arrange a fleet policy to cover all of Ts new vans  going  forward, 
while leaving  the individual policies   that didnt  entitle  T to a refund  in place for them to 
run their course.  And I think the existing  policies for which T were entitled to get refunds 
could have been cancelled, and the vans under those  policies  added  to the fleet policy. Had 
that happened, although there would have been a fleet policy  and a number of separate  
policies running  at the same time,  but covering different vans,  within a few months  the 
separate policies  would have ended and T would have been left with a single fleet policy,  
which SJP accepted was more suitable.  So I don't think  SJP handled Ts policies fairly. I 
think they sold policies  that werent suitable  for Ts growing business  when  SJP were fully 
aware of the sort of policy  that was suitable  for T.
Ref: DRN223786213For the above reasons, I intend  to uphold Ts complaint that the policies SJP arranged were 
not suitable for Ts needs.
the loans and cancellation of the policies
SJP have accepted that when they arranged Ts loans they didnt give the right information 
about which insurer underwrote the policies concerned. In their FRL, SJP said Ts director 
Mr F was aware that the incorrect  insurer would be displayed on the credit agreement  
because the insurer  wasnt on the finance  providers list of insurers. But the name  of the 
business SJP referred  to in their FRL as being the insurer wasnt the correct insurer,  it was 
the intermediary that administered  the policies. But despite referring to the intermediary 
instead of the insurer,  SJP said that they did know  who the insurer  was. SJP said:  different 
insurers were  selected  as [the insurer  wasnt] selectable from the [finance  providers] 
Insurers list. This does not mean that [the finance  provider]  would not offer policies for this 
insurer and we simply selected an alternative insurer  to set up the loan. 
T said that SJP acted  fraudulently by giving  the names of different insurers  so that they 
could set up a number of loans for T. T said that if SJP had told the finance provider who the 
actual insurer was, the finance provider  wouldnt have  given the loans and SJP wouldnt 
have made  a financial gain, namely  commission from the finance provider and separately 
from the insurer. SJP vehemently deny  acting fraudulently to make a gain, they said their 
commission was minimal and their sole motivation was to help T. 
I havent been provided with any evidence from the finance provider to say whether or not 
they would  have given the loans had they known who the actual insurer was. And while Mr F 
has given a statement  in support of SJP to say that both he and the other director,  Mr H, 
were aware that SJP had used incorrect insurers names when taking  out the loans, I dont 
think it justified SJPs  actions even if one or both directors knew.  But I should say that Mr H, 
in the statement he gave, said he wasnt aware that SJP used incorrect  insurers.  
I should make it clear that fraud  is a criminal  offence and its not within  my remit to make  
such a finding.  So I dont intend to comment further  on this point. But I think  it was 
inappropriate for SJP to misrepresent the insurer to the finance  provider  for the purposes  of 
obtaining loans  for T. The loan agreements between T and the finance  provider specified a 
number of events  that would  cause  a default. One of those default events was: You have 
given false information  in connection with this Agreement. So even if SJP used other  
insurers details with Ts best interests in mind, I think by using incorrect  information SJP put 
T at risk of being found to have given false information  and thereby put T at risk of being  in 
default of the loan agreements. Had that happened  the finance provider, in accordance  with 
the finance agreements,  could have demanded that T pay all the unpaid  amounts on the 
loans immediately. Had that happened, I think that could have led to the cancellation of the 
insurance policies,  which would have no doubt had a detrimental  impact on T. So SJP 
shouldnt have acted  in the way they did.
Turning back to the issue of whether or not T were aware of what SJP did in relation to the 
loans. As I understand it, T have  raised  two main  concerns about SJPs  conduct in relation  
to the loans. The first is that SJP misrepresented the identity of the insurer to the finance  
provider when SJP arranged: the original  loan in April 2016; the two loans in October 2016 
(having cancelled the April 2016  loan);  the two additional loans in November  2016;  and the 
attempt to set up four new loans in January 2017 (having cancelled the two October and two 
November 2016  loans). 
Ref: DRN223786214The second  issue,  as I understand  it, is that SJP cancelled the April 2016 loan and replaced 
it with two new loans  in October 2016,  which T say was without  their knowledge; and in 
January 2017  cancelled  the October and November 2016 loans and attempted  to replace 
them with four new loans  again,  T say without their knowledge. T said their understanding 
was that SJP split their single monthly loan payment  into two monthly  payments from 
October 2016 onwards. Likewise, T said that during the meeting with SJP in January 2017, 
SJP told T they would  further split the two monthly payments into four monthly payments a 
week apart so as to help with their cash flow problems.
Dealing with the first issue, it was Mr F who almost  exclusively dealt with SJP on behalf of T 
from early 2016 until early January 2017 in relation  to the insurance  side of the business. Im 
aware Mr F and Mr H had a falling out which led to Mr Fs resignation from his directorship 
and he left T in February 2017. There are a number of statements, including  one from Mr H, 
that suggest Mr F has only given a statement  in support of SJP to spite Mr H and T. The 
evidence of Mr H and Ts accountant also suggests  that until Mr F left T, he too was 
unhappy with and critical of SJPs conduct.
From the evidence Ive seen, on balance, Im satisfied that Mr H wasnt  aware  of SJPs 
conduct, which Ive described as the first and second issues  above. Mr H had little 
involvement with SJP or with the loans  and insurance policies until around January 2017. 
And it was Mr H and Mr W who met SJP on 17 January 2017, Mr F wasnt  present. SJP 
have said that it was agreed  between the parties  during that meeting that SJP would  cancel 
the four October and November  2016 loans and set up four new loans. SJP said Mr H 
agreed to that. Mr H, however, said that no such discussion  or agreement took place. Mr H 
said SJP only mentioned that they would split the two monthly payments into four monthly  
payments a week apart. SJPs contemporaneous  notes  of that meeting say: Mr H was 
happy with everything, cancel 2xDD [two direct  debits]  and arrange  4. The notes make  no 
mention of the existing loans being cancelled and four new ones being set up. The very 
same day, after that meeting had taken  place, SJP emailed Mr H and thanked  him for 
meeting earlier. But SJP made no mention  of an agreement to cancel the existing loans and 
set up four new ones.  What followed over the next several weeks was a number of email  
exchanges between  SJP and T about  various issues, such as the outstanding claims and an 
up to date list of vans  T were using,  but again  SJP made no mention of an agreement  that 
the existing loans would be cancelled and four new loans set up. 
On 3 February 2017, SJP emailed Mr W. In that SJP said I'm slightly confused as to 
what's going on? As agreed  with [Mr H] I've given  you a payment break  to help get 
everything sorted but less than 2 weeks later I get a call from your insurer advising the policy 
is being transferred  to [the new broker] Again there was no mention of an agreement to 
cancel the existing loans and set up four new ones.  Nor was there  a request to sign new 
loan agreements.
SJP next sent T an email on 7 February 2017.  SJP said In regards to payments for the 
insurance I have managed to split this weekly for you as discussed  with [Mr H], payments 
will begin  on the 15th of Feb and the first payment will be £2,622.92. [Mr F] asked me to 
email you and let you know. Again SJP made no mention of an agreement to cancel the 
existing loans and set up four new ones. Nor did SJP ask T to sign any new loan 
agreements. Had it been agreed  during the January 2017 meeting I would have expected  
SJP to have mentioned it. But, instead, SJP said they had managed to split the payments, 
which I think supports Ts version  of what happened, namely that there wasnt an agreement  
to cancel the existing loans and set up four new ones,  but only that the monthly payments 
Ref: DRN223786215would be split into four a month. And SJPs words  I have managed to split   also 
suggested that as of 7 February  SJP had already rearranged Ts payment plan.
Correspondence from SJP to T continued  until 15 February 2017,  the day SJP cancelled  all 
the insurance policies. And from the information  Ive seen, not once  did SJP say in writing 
that T had agreed  to the cancellation of the existing loans; the setting up of four new ones; 
and the need for T to sign four new loan agreements. Nor did SJP express surprise  at Ts 
refusal to sign the four new finance  agreements despite agreeing to. Similarly, SJP didnt 
warn T that they (SJP) had, as agreed, already cancelled the existing  loans on 25 January 
2017. And as a result of T refusing  to sign the four new loan agreements there was no 
current payment arrangement in place, which meant T would be in default  of the finance 
agreements, which would  inevitably lead to the cancellation of the insurance policies. Had it 
been the case, as suggested by SJP, that Mr H knew and was in agreement  with SJPs 
actions of using  the wrong  insurers to set up the loans, and with the original April 2016 loan 
being cancelled  and two new loans being  set up in October 2016, I think SJP would have  
confirmed in writing to Mr H what SJP said they had agreed to in the January meeting.
But T said they didnt know that SJP had cancelled the October and November 2016 loans. 
T said that as far as they were concerned, the loans and their direct  debit mandates were 
still in place. And T said that they were  up to date with their payments to the finance 
provider. But SJP said that T were  aware of the cancellation of the loans not only because of 
the January meeting, but also because the finance  provider had sent T four letters dated 
25 January 2017,  that were titled advice of early settlement/cancellation. Those  letters said 
the October  and November 2016  loans had been  cancelled and set out the outstanding 
balances on the loans, which were a combined total of over £82,000. But I have seen 
confirmation from the finance  provider  that said they didnt issue  those four letters  to T 
because all documentation had been blocked. The finance provider said that although they 
had blocked all correspondence, SJP had access to the cancellation letters. But Ive seen no 
evidence that SJP sent those four cancellation  letters to T either. SJP sent T a letter dated 
8 February 2017  by recorded delivery.  In that letter SJP said they had received 
correspondence from the finance  provider  to say the credit  agreement had been cancelled  
and payment to clear  the outstanding balance has been requested . SJPs  letter  was worded  
as though they had only just found out from the finance  provider that the existing loans had 
been cancelled.  But there is no dispute  that it was SJP who had cancelled the existing loans, 
so they already knew about it. SJPs 8 February  letter went onto say the outstanding  balance 
had to be paid in full by 15 February 2017,  otherwise insurance  cover would be cancelled.  
But SJPs  letter didnt  say what the balance was and it was worded as though only one credit 
agreement had been cancelled whereas all four had.
I dont think that Mr H had agreed in the January 2017 meeting, or at any stage, for the 
October and November 2016 loans to be cancelled and for four new ones to be set up. I 
think thats why there is an absence  of any written correspondence or confirmation on the 
point. And even if SJP felt that was agreed  during the meeting, its not clear to me why SJP 
cancelled the existing loans before first getting the four new loan agreements signed by T, 
which SJP said was the reason why the four new loans didnt come into effect. While T were 
having cash flow problems, the evidence  indicates  that they were clearly  still willing  and able 
to meet  their payments.  And I have seen confirmation from the finance provider that at the 
time of cancellation  T were not in arrears. Although the finance provider didnt specify 
whether they meant at the time of the cancellation  of the October  and November 2016  loans  
or at the time of cancellation of the insurance policies.
Ref: DRN223786216I note that SJP said they cancelled the four October  and November 2016  loans on 
25 January 2017.  And the four cancellation  letters from the finance provider have the same 
date. And I have seen  the statement of accounts  produced by the finance provider which 
also says the October and November 2016  loans were cancelled by SJP on 
25 January 2016.  But SJPs file notes titled History  of [policy] as at 30 May 2017 suggest 
that they cancelled those  loans on 7 February  2017.  SJPs entry  dated  7 February 2017 
says: Manual entry Credit agreements have been  cancelled and re arranged  as per 
discussion with [policyholder]. There is no mention in SJPs  25 January 2017  notes  of the 
loans being cancelled on that date.  I think SJPs notes also suggest that they arranged the 
four new loans on 7 February. SJPs entry on 7 February refers to the credit agreements 
being re arranged . And the finance providers statement of accounts  say the Received 
Date of the four rejected new loans was 7 February 2017, which seems to suggest  that was 
the date on which SJP tried to set them up. The statement of accounts said that the four 
loans SJP tried to arrange were rejected because  they did not adhere  with our 
requirements with the broker.  
But, separate to the matter of the loans, another issue that was running  parallel, was Ts 
desire to end their relationship with SJP and use another broker.  Coincidentally  or otherwise, 
that issue also came to a head on 7 February  2017. The evidence  shows  that on 13 
January, the new broker T wanted to take over from SJP called SJP asking for a transfer of 
business. Ts written transfer request was signed by Mr F. That was followed up by Mr Hs 
call to SJP on 17 January also saying T wanted  to transfer to the new broker.  It was Ts 
desire to change brokers that led to the impromptu meeting between  SJP and Mr H and 
Mr W on 17 January.  T said that on 27 January they agreed to stay on with SJP only 
because SJP threatened that Ts outstanding claims wouldnt be paid if T transferred to a 
new broker. I think SJP were  clearly unhappy  that T wanted to use another  broker. In an 
email to T on 3 February,  SJP said: I'm slightly confused as to what's  going  on? As agreed 
with [Mr H] I've given you a payment break to help get everything sorted but less than 2 
weeks later I get a call from your insurer advising the policy  is being  transferred to [the new 
broker].
On 7 February, the insurers  intermediary sent SJP an email.  They  said:  As the [broker  T 
want to transfer to] don't have agency with us, if the transfer is successful then ultimately the 
policies will have to be cancelled and I'm not sure [T] realises this. I've been  advised that as 
the most  recent correspondence we have  is [T] asking to be transferred to [the new broker],  
we have 7 days  from today to clear  this up otherwise we'll have to follow through with the 
request, and will have  to issue notice of cancellation  on all existing policies. On the same 
day SJP forwarded  that email to T and said: Please see below email from your insurer,  
please can you call or email me so we can sort, or let me know  what  the problem is. That 
same day, SJP sent another  email to Mr H, Mr F and Mr W of T and said: Please can 
someone call me urgently, as it stands [the new broker]  are trying to transfer  your policy  to 
them with immediate effect, [the new broker] do not have an agency with your insurer  which 
means that the policy will be cancelled, no claims will be paid and you will still have to 
continue to pay for the policy,  I was under the impression from my visit the other day that 
everything was sorted and the relationship was all good and that we would be open and 
honest with each other going forward, please  can you email  me or call to let me know what's  
going on as I can't  help if I don't know what the situation is. The emails  above suggest that 
as of 7 February,  the only threat to the insurance policies being cancelled  was because T 
wanted to transfer  to a new broker. Not once did SJP say in any of their correspondence   
between 17 January and 7 February  that the parties had agreed  to cancel the existing 
loans and set up four new ones; that T were refusing to sign the four new loan agreements; 
that the policies would  be cancelled because T were in arrears; or that the policies would be 
Ref: DRN223786217cancelled as there was no payment facility in place because  the existing loans had already 
been cancelled.
While T maintain that the four new loans didnt come  into effect because the finance provider 
blocked them due to the suspected fraud, SJP say they didnt  come  into effect because T 
failed to sign the four loan agreements. But in January 2017, through the new brokers  
involvement, T were  in contact with the finance provider. And I have  seen correspondence  
from the finance provider in which they said they had blocked  all documentation. So I 
think the finance provider had concerns regarding the loans  and what  they had been  told by 
T. 
Even if SJP are correct  in that they did send T the four new loan agreements, I can 
understand why T would  have refused to sign them and why the finance  provider would have  
blocked the new loans. T said that they found  out from the finance provider that SJP 
attempted to set up four new loans. Each  loan was for an identical amount just under 
£25,000. And that the loans, according to what T were told by the finance provider, made a 
number of misrepresentations. The most significant was that: each of the four new loans 
were being  taken out for four new insurance  policies starting  on 15 and 22 February,  and 
1 and 8 March 2017; and that the four new policies were underwritten by three  different 
underwriters. But, in fact, T were not taking out any new insurance policies. The seven  
insurance policies  that had been incepted with the insurer between 22 April and 
28 November 2016 were still active. 
So, I think SJPs attempt  to take out four new loans on Ts behalf  was unreasonable  for the 
following reasons:
The terms of the credit agreements said that each  loan was being given to buy an 
insurance policy. But, contrary to SJPs representations made  to the finance  provider, 
new policies werent being bought but SJP were trying to restructure Ts payments 
for the existing policies.  I think  that fell foul of the credit agreements  terms and 
conditions.
The four new loans, like the previous loans, were structured in a way to ensure that 
they were repaid  in full before each 12 month insurance policy came to an end. 
Thats why repayments were to be done  in 10 instalments. The reason for that was to 
give the finance provider security in case T defaulted on their loans. Each finance 
agreement said the finance provider had a charge over the policy  and T agreed to 
assign their rights and interests in the policy  over to the finance provider. Under the 
finance agreements, in the event there was a default  on a loan, the finance provider 
could approach the insurer to cancel the policy and to get any premium refund due to 
T for the remaining  period of the policy. But that could  only work if the policy for 
which the loan was taken out was scheduled  to end after the last loan payment was 
made. But had the four loans been  successfully taken out, not only would it have 
been the case that the existing policies didnt  relate  to the loans, but there would 
have been a period of time where all the policies  would have  ended  while  the four 
loans were still continuing. Likewise, the loan agreements said that the finance 
provider could recover money owed to them by T from any claims  settlements  the 
insurer were to make to T. But given the four loan agreements would have continued  
well past the scheduled end dates  of the policies, the finance providers ability to 
recover money through potential  claims settlements would have been reduced.  So, I 
think SJPs arrangement of the four new loans wasnt compatible with the terms of 
the finance agreements.
Ref: DRN223786218I should say that further to the problems Ive outlined above, SJPs  actions in the way 
they tried to take out the four new loans could have  also led to the finance provider 
holding T in default of the finance agreements had the loans been successful. The 
finance agreement  says T could  be found  to be in default if: You have  given false 
information or have  otherwise committed or assisted another  person  to commit fraud 
in connection  with this Agreement. The representation made to the finance provider 
was that the four new loans to be taken out were  to pay for four new insurance 
policies being  underwritten by a number  of insurers. But that simply wasnt  the case.  
So SJPs actions  could  have  led to very serious  consequences for T.
Also, if the four loans  were successfully taken out and used to restructure  Ts 
payments for the existing seven policies,  its likely that T would have been paying  off 
the loans until January  or February 2018.  But all their existing seven policies would 
have ended by November 2017. So if T took out a new 12 month policy  in November, 
I think they would have had a period of time where they would have been paying  for 
two sets of premiums: one for the new policy  and one for seven policies the new 
policy had replaced. And given the large  cost of the premiums T were  paying 
because of the number of vans they insured, I think paying two sets of premiums 
would have placed T under financial strain. But had SJP arranged  one suitable 12 
month fleet policy for T from the start and arranged appropriate finance for T, the 
expectation was that T would  have paid the premium within the life that policy.  And 
once that policy  came to an end and T took out a new policy in the following year, 
they would  have started afresh  without having the burden of carrying  over a debt for 
the previous years  insurance cover.
I think that once T became aware  (through their new broker) of what SJP had tried to do with 
the loans, if SJP did ask T to sign the four new loan agreements  and T refused, I think  Ts 
refusal was reasonable. 
I understand that SJP cancelled all seven of Ts insurance policies in reliance of a condition 
in their terms and conditions that said: It is a term of any Instalment arrangement that you 
authorise us as your agent to instruct the Insurers to cancel your insurance  if any payment 
under those arrangements is in arrears and not paid on time. But, as Ive mentioned  above, 
the finance provider confirmed that T werent in arrears. But, even if T were in arrears, I think 
it was SJPs unreasonable actions in relation to how they dealt with the loans that led to that 
situation.
For the reasons  given  above, I feel that SJPs actions in relation to the loans and the 
resulting cancellation of the policies were  unreasonable.  I therefore intend to uphold this part 
of Ts complaint.
the reporting of claims
Processing claims under the policies was the responsibility of the insurer  and not SJP. And 
the insurers policy terms gave instructions  as to how T should make any claims. But 
separate to that, SJP charged T an additional fee to provide  a claims service. That wasnt 
optional but a requirement placed by SJP when  taking  out insurance.  SJPs  terms and 
conditions said in order to provide a full one-stop service, we require customers taking out 
Motor Vehicle insurance to also pay an additional  charge  for our claims service. It went on 
to say: you authorise [SJP] and its agents to take all necessary actions to handle  your claim 
including dealing with your insurers, third parties and their insurers  and other  service  
suppliers on your behalf.
Ref: DRN223786219T said that they reported a number of claims to SJP, but SJP failed to pass the details onto 
the insurer which meant that claims werent paid. That resulted in T having to pay the owner 
of the hired vans the costs of repair and extended periods of hire because the vans couldnt  
be hired in their damaged state.  SJP, however, said in their FRL that they reported Ts 
claims to the insurer the same day T reported them  to SJP.  SJP said that when T reported 
claims they failed to provide all the necessary information that was needed by the insurer  to 
process them. SJP said their understanding was that the insurer  had sent T claim forms but 
they were not completed and therefore claims were not settled. 
My understanding is that T reported the majority of their claims by phone. That is not 
surprising as SJPs  instruction  was for T to report claims to their claims line. My expectation 
is that SJP, when taking  the claims reports,  should  have advised  T as to what  information 
was necessary. But I havent been  provided  with any call recordings so I dont know  what  
was discussed.  T also made a number of the claims in writing  and I have  seen a number of 
emails.
I should say that very soon after the policies were cancelled in February  2017,  T complained  
to both SJP and the insurer. This decision only relates to SJP. But part of Ts complaint to 
the insurer was about Ts claims  not being  paid. Our investigator did her best to mediate 
between T and the insurer for the claims  to be processed. But the insurer  went into 
administration at the end of 2018 before the claims were paid and before our service  could 
issue a final decision on the point. I should make  it clear  that Ts complaint against SJP is 
that SJP didnt pass on Ts claims to the insurer. But soon after the meeting between  SJP 
and T in January 2017, SJP did (in early February  2017) pass on the details of claims to the 
insurer. Although T would  say that was done  belatedly. And after that both our investigator 
and Ts new broker made further contact with the insurer to get the claims  processed.  But 
my understanding is that the outstanding claims werent paid,  despite  the insurer  having had 
the necessary  details  about the claims for some  time. 
While Im not making any findings against  the insurer in this decision,  I think the claims not 
being paid after the relevant details were passed to the insurer  is relevant to the complaint 
against SJP. My understanding of SJPs  position is that: they received Ts claims and 
passed them  onto the insurer in a timely  manner; from that point  onwards it was the insurers 
responsibility to deal with the claims; the insurer sent T claim forms to complete, but T failed  
to do so. 
I understand that the vast majority of the claims related to accidents  at the end of 2016 and 
early 2017.  So even if I was to make a finding  that SJP failed to notify the insurer of the 
claims in a timely manner,  I have  to also look at what impact that had on T. Or, in other 
words, what might have happened  if SJP had reported all the claims to the insurer in a timely 
manner. Given the claims  werent paid even after SJP reported them  in February  2017;  our 
investigator and Ts new broker gave the insurer details about the claims; and the insurer 
had well over a year to process the claims, but didnt  do so, I cant  say that the position 
would have been any different had SJP passed on the claims details more  promptly. So, I 
cant say SJPs actions  caused any of the claims to not be paid.  I should  also say that within 
the evidence Ive been provided, there were some occasions where  Ts drivers failed to 
report accidents to T, which would have meant  that those  accidents wouldnt have been 
reported by T in a timely manner.  
For the reasons  explained, I dont intend  to uphold this part of the complaint.
removing vans from the policies
Ref: DRN223786220During the time the seven  insurance  policies were active, T had a large  number of vans  
insured at various times.  There were  many occasions where vans were added  or removed 
from the policies.  As each  van was charged a premium  it was important to ensure that any 
vans no longer required  by T did not remain on cover.
T said that they told SJP every time a van had to be removed from cover but SJP failed to 
act on some of Ts requests, which led to vans not being used remaining on cover at the 
expense of T. SJP deny  that and said that T didnt always tell SJP which  vans no longer 
needed cover.
From the evidence Ive been provided, I can see that there  were  a number of occasions, 
especially towards the end of 2016 and in early  2017, where SJP repeatedly asked  T for an 
up-to-date list of vans they were using which needed cover.  But I dont think T gave SJP the 
necessary information.  I understand  that when SJP met with T in January 2017, it was 
established that a number  of vans were still on cover that shouldnt have been. But given 
SJP asked T before  then on a number of occasions  for an up-to-date list of vans, I cant  say 
that SJP were at fault. So I dont intend to uphold this part of the complaint.
summary
I intend to uphold the complaints that the policies  were  not suitable  for T and that SJPs  
actions in relation  to the loans and the cancellation of the policies werent  reasonable. I 
dont, however, intend to uphold the complaints  in relation to the claims and the updating of 
the policies with the vans requiring cover.
I apologise to the parties  for the time it has taken to give my provisional decision. As the 
parties are well aware the issues in this complaint are complex; the evidence is voluminous; 
there is the added complication of Ts separate complaint against the insurer where I think  
there is some overlap; and another complication  is the fact that the insurer  went  into 
administration while our service was considering that complaint. I understand that T claimed 
compensation from the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in relation to their 
complaint about  the insurer. I dont know what the outcome of that claim is. Given  there is 
some overlap between  Ts complaint against SJP and the insurer, its important for me to 
know the outcome  of the FSCS claim before I cant at this juncture fairly conclude  what  
actions SJP needs take to put things  right.
Similarly, before I can make a direction  as to the appropriate remedy,  I require T to provide 
me with detailed information, with any supporting evidence, explaining how they say the 
issues I intend to uphold have impacted them; what loss (if any) they suffered; and how they 
feel they should be compensated.
Equally, I would welcome SJPs comments on my provisional findings.
Given the complexity of the complaint; the length of my provisional  decision; and the obvious  
interruption to business and schedules due to the impending festive period, I am giving the 
parties six weeks to provide their comments to my provisional decision. Should either party 
require longer, they should ask for an extension giving reasons.
Once Ive received the requested information from both parties,  I will issue a further 
provisional decision incorporating any relevant information Ive been  provided and my views 
Ref: DRN223786221on compensation. That will give the parties the opportunity to comment further before I issue  
my final decision.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend  to uphold  this complaint in part. 
Both parties  should  provide their comments on my provisional findings. But, additionally, I 
require T to provide me with detailed information,  with any supporting evidence, explaining 
how they say the underlying issues of the complaints I intend to uphold  have impacted them;  
what loss (if any) they suffered; and how they feel they should be compensated. T should 
also give details, with supporting evidence, of the outcome  of their claim to the FSCS. 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN223786222Appended
Second Provisional Decision dated 18 March 2020
complaint
T have complained  about S & J Palmer  Ltds  (SJP) handling  of Ts commercial motor vehicle 
insurance policies.
T are represented in their complaint. But, for ease, I will refer to the representatives  
comments as being those of T.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 19 December 2019, which  is appended  to this decision.  
Pease refer to that decision for the background and my provisional findings.
The parties were invited to comment on my provisional findings. Both parties provided 
further comments. I have  summarised the parties  comments under the four headings as 
they appear in my provisional decision.
suitability of the policies
SJP said:
As previously  disclosed, at the inception of the first Mini fleet policy,  Mr F [one of Ts 
directors] required 3 vehicles to be insured  immediately, with an option for future 
growth. As noted, in the provisional  decision, this was a new business  with no track 
record. Therefore, our advice was based  on the best option  that could be sourced at 
that time and best met the client's needs,  which was a mini fleet policy.  At that time, it 
was to provide  insurance for 3 vehicles, with the ability to add more  vehicles (up to a 
maximum of 10) when required. This gave the client the flexibility to add and remove  
vehicles up to a maximum of 10 vehicles on a pro rate basis.  In addition, it would also 
allow the monthly payments to be adjusted accordingly and additional mini fleet 
policies to be arranged when required,  thus helping  with their cash  flow.
The mini fleet policies  would also allow the business to build up fleet experience  to 
take to the market,  allowing a standard fleet policy to be obtained at a later stage. We 
did try to obtain a standard fleet quote on the 1[0]th June 2016, when the client 
reached 10 vehicles.  (Copy email to [fleet  specialist  agent]  attached  below) But due 
to this being a new venture, we were  unable to obtain a rate in the market. This said 
if a standard fleet policy could have been obtained this would be based on a be [sic] 
quarterly declaration for changes, thus affecting  cash flow as payment for changes 
would then be in arrears with no direct  debt facility  in quarter four, compared  to the 
mini fleet option offered.
In October 2016, a Fleet  policy  could  have been provided, however, as explained 
previously due to the claims made on the other policies, they would have been 
paying twice for the same cover. As explained  above, previous attempts to obtain a 
standard fleet policy were not successful.  
An assumption has been made  in the provisional  decision, that T would have been 
tied to the insurer  for more than the initial 12-month period. This is speculation, as 
the initial policy did not run its full 12 months. We cannot say what  would have 
Ref: DRN223786223happened at that time but the policy would have been rebroked and T's needs would 
have been reassessed. T would have  also been more than welcome to shop around.  
In the provisional  decision, there  is focus on the fact that on a standard fleet policy, 
vehicles can be added  on a pro rata basis. In this case, none of the policies ran the 
full period, so I do not see the bearing  on this case. We had advised T of this 
situation and they were  aware the cancellation  terms  were  time on cover  with refunds 
not being available for any vehicles that had been involved in claims.  While it means  
T was technically  taking on more debt, they were aware of the situation and the 
cancellation terms were time on cover, so there  was a partial refund from the 
provider.
We appreciate that a standard fleet policy may allow for quarterly declarations. 
However, as this didn't happen,  we don't  feel assumptions can be made  on what  
impact this would  or wouldn't  have  had on their cash flow.
In my opinion, due to the claims experience and risk type the cost of a standalone  
policy would have  been more expensive than the current  mini fleet's on cover with 
less flexibility for the client to down size the fleet.  Standard  fleet cases  can include a 
minimum deposit which could  result in a 75% time on risk charge from day one. 
We cannot agree that the policies  were unsuitable, as they provided cover for the 
vehicles that needed to be covered. You will indeed note that the vehicles have  been  
involved in incidents that have had the claims paid so it is incorrect  to say the policies 
were not suitable.  We would agree  that a fleet policy may have been a more  suitable 
policy after the rapid expansion  however, for the reasons  already explained, this was 
not possible at the time the last vehicles were added. It would however have been 
fully assessed  at renewal.
T agreed with my provisional decision under this head and said:
We would also pick up Para 2 on page 6 of the decision where SJP is alleged  to 
have advised  Mr [H] that as a result of claims, a premium refund would not be 
forthcoming if the policies were  cancelled early. Our belief is that this advice was 
solely commission driven, especially when  it is learned that the [insurer]  did indeed  
allow cancellation refunds  when SJP did unilaterally  cancel the policies in February 
2017 under  false  pretences.  SJP has not refunded this unknown amount to [T] and 
indeed, we suspect  that it has been utilised for the purpose of reducing SJPs 
indebtedness to [the finance  provider] under the terms of the agreement  between 
those two firms.  This is tantamount to theft  although we accept that it is not within  
the Ombudsmans remit to make  findings on criminal matters.
the loans and cancellation of the policies
SJP said:
Upon knowing the client had a cashflow  issue, we tried to assist with the agreement  
at the time of setting up 4 loans which enabled  payments to be split more evenly. As 
at that time the client was entering a default situation, which they paid to allow  the 
direct deb[i]ts  to be cancelled and new ones created, thus a 1 month's period of 
grace was agreed.
Whilst the incorrect insurance providers name was given on the agreement,  this 
would not have had an impact on the acceptability of the loan as the insurers in 
question were acceptable. At no stage was anything done [inappropriately], but was 
done to aid the client due to the current cashflow issue.  An assumption has been 
made that that the loans could  have been cancelled due to the incorrect insurers 
Ref: DRN223786224name[s]  being present on the documents.  This is an assumption and did not happen, 
so should not have  any bearing on this case.
At no time was any underhand activity  undertaken as Mr F was fully aware  of what  
was happening with their loans and it was only done to aid their business and 
cashflow. It was not to benefit  us. Mr H & T were also fully aware of the situation after 
my meeting in January  2017.  Only upon dealing with another  broker  did they find 
reason to walk away from our business  relationship.
I would  further  add that our actions were entirely  to aid the customer. We have a 
facility agreed with our finance  provider [name] whereby, providing certain processes 
are followed, the facility  is entirely  non-recourse meaning there would be no debt to 
us in the event  of default. We were fully aware  that by allowing  the customer  to 
separate the loans into 2 to aid cashflow  that this would put us outside of our agreed 
non-recourse facility with [the finance  provider].  The result of this was that the loans 
would revert to a recourse basis meaning  we would be responsible for any shortfall  
(as has happened here). We were however more  than happy to do this in order  to 
assist the customer with their cash flow issues, as we valued  the relationship and 
were keen  to do what we could to support  them even if that posed  a risk to our own 
business. I highlight  this to reiterate that there was absolutely  no reason for us to do 
this aside to assist the customer.
The statements provided by accountant should  be called in to question  as no 
evidence can be given  to show  Mr F wrote this in spite,  so undermines the complaint 
by Mr H & T. In any event,  to say that our evidence should be disregarded  as a result  
of the accountants' comments does not feel reasonable. We were communicating 
with Mr F as we were instructed to do and are not expected  to be aware of the 
complexities of the relationship of the two directors.
Since Mr F and Mr [W] have parted company with T they have both instructed us to 
deal with their new insurance  requirements  remaining clients  of our business to this 
day. This would  speak  volumes  on the service given by us while  they undertook 
business for T, and cast doubt over the statements made as if this was not the case 
both would have  not intrusted our services  again.
I feel the complaint  has been done  under the direction of a third party to obtain  their 
business. The action  taken by our business  was always well intended  to help resolve  
ongoing cashflow  issues with their agreement.
T agreed with my provisional findings  under  this head. T also said:
There has been sufficient dialogue on the set up of the loans and that they bore no 
resemblance to the policies set up on behalf of [T]  not only in terms of the identity  
of the insurers  but also in respect of the amounts borrowed/repaid. We note SJP 
vehemently deny acting fraudulently (and again  we acknowledge that such a finding 
is outside of the Ombudsmans remit), however, picking up on the SJP comment that 
commission on the loans  was minimal, we would refer to the very early notes from 
[the finance provider] that the interest rate charged by SJP (who had the authority to 
apply a rate of their choosing)  was 7% in several  instances  (against the retail rate 
given to Brokers by [the finance provider] of around 3%) and so if a 100%  mark  up 
was minimal, we have  to accept SJPs comments although in monetary terms, this 
commission would have  been  in the region  of £3-£4000 on top of the commission 
received from the insurer for arranging the policy cover.
As regards cancellation, our estimate of the amount of the policy refund has been  
documented previously although  we have no knowledge of the actual amount 
reimbursed by the insurer but we believe it runs to several thousand pounds.  Legally,  
this belongs to [T] and cannot  be used  to reimburse loans with [the finance provider] 
Ref: DRN223786225that bore no resemblance to the amounts, the insurers or the policies that SJP did 
effect in the name of [T].
We note the comment  in para 1 of page 10 of the decision we can clarify that the 
finance providers  comment  that T were not in arrears (nor had the bank mandate  
been cancelled) was made to [Ts new broker] and therefore definitely referred to the 
then policy cancellation threat  in February 2017.
We note the comment  in para 1 of page 11 of the decision and the falsehood that if 
the policies were cancelled early by the insurer, that claims would not be paid and 
premiums would  continue   designed to put undue  and unfair pressure on T.
The cancellation itself could have caused significant damage to [T] especially as SJP 
advised that they had been instructed by [the finance provider] to terminate  the cover  
(untrue) on the basis that the direct debit  mandate had been  cancelled (untrue) and 
that the loans  themselves were in arrears (again untrue). The effective date and time 
of cancellation  by SJP was after 9pm in the evening but it was not until 3pm the 
following day when Mr [H] was informed by [the insurers agent] that cover was no 
longer in force. Consequently, [T] were breaking the law by inadvertently driving  
uninsured. If vans had been pulled  off the road, [Ts large customer]  would have 
terminated their contract with [T] (a courier without  vans on the road is not of much 
use), leaving the firm bankrupt and likely, its Director in a similar position.
This meant  that alternate cover had to be sought  as a matter  of extreme  urgency and 
we touch on this point in our summary to this response and thoughts  on quantum. 
the reporting of claims
SJP didnt comment.
T didnt agree with my provisional decision  under this heading.  T said:
We note the decision comment that even if all claims  had been reported promptly  by SJP, it 
would have made little difference  because  of the lack of action  on the part of the ultimate 
underwriter. However,  we make points here:
i. When the intermediaries used by SJP produced a spreadsheet in 
February 2017, listing the claims that they knew about, there were many  
omissions proving  that SJP had NOT  satisfied their obligation to T to report  
the claims promptly. The Ombudsman has a copy of this spreadsheet (further 
copy attached  to the accompanying email).
ii. As further evidence, there was one specific accident involving vehicle 
[registration] September 2016 where  the repairs were in excess of £10,000   
this does not appear on the insurer spreadsheet and yet SJP had referred this 
claim to their own claims handling firm [name]  with [SJP] being copied  into an 
email dated  16/11/16  of which FOS has a copy. T ended up paying this claim 
amongst all of the others to [the van hire company used by T] after the latter 
issued a winding  up order  against  T for non-payment of claims. This order  
was later withdrawn by [the van hire company]  after T agreed a payment plan 
including interest and legal costs in excess of £100,000.
iii. In para 1 of page 13 of the decision, the Ombudsman identifies that SJP 
overrode the insurer responsibility to process claims by providing a 
mandatory claims service and so T were  perfectly  entitled  to their view that 
SJP would process their claims  once  they were reported to them  on the 
telephone as required by SJP. T never  received any correspondence  from the 
Ref: DRN223786226insurers intermediary but again, it is a Brokers  responsibility to not only 
report claims to an insurer  but to follow them up  the failure  to do this by SJP 
is perfectly illustrated  in ii above. 
iv. It is interesting to note that the ultimate  insurer [name] has issued litigation 
against their intermediary through whom  SJP had arranged the cover in a 
multi-million pound  law suit relating to the alleged inadequate processing of 
claims  so it seems that it may not have been the ultimate  insurer that let T 
down but the intermediary with whom SJP enjoyed agency  facilities.  SJP 
therefore under the law of agency should have acted in the capacity of agent  
for the policyholder and failed to do so.
It is a prima-facie of an insurance broker to undertake due diligence on all parties  in the 
insurance chain  both in terms of service and claims paying ability prior to a contract  of 
insurance incepting  and we challenge  SJP to provide evidence that they sought  to undertake 
any activity of this nature.  
There is online anecdotal evidence  that this intermediary through whom  SJP placed this 
business have  a certain reputation for dealing with non-regulated insurers  who passport 
into the UK market under  EU regulations. It would seem that [the insurer] the third insurer 
that they have  dealt  with who have encountered financial  difficulties and currently a fourth 
insurer is under close  scrutiny by [overseas] regulators. [Ts new broker]  celebrate their 30th 
year in business this year and can report that they have never placed business through  this 
intermediary .and never will. 
removing vans from the policies
SJP didnt comment.
T said that although they do not agree with my provisional decision under this heading, they 
will accept  the decision in view of the lack of documentary evidence  to support the fact that 
telephone instructions were given to delete specific vehicles.
Ts losses
In my provisional decision I asked T to provide me with detailed  information, with any 
supporting evidence, explaining how they say the underlying issues of the complaints  I 
intend to uphold had impacted them; what loss (if any) they suffered; and how they feel they 
should be compensated. T had a separate complaint about  the insurer  which  we were 
looking into. But as the insurer went into administration at the end of 2018, before our 
service made a final decision, the matter was referred to the FSCS.  I had also asked T to 
provide details, with supporting evidence, of the outcome of their claim to the FSCS. T 
responded, as follows:
This is the most difficult part of the response. The administration of the insurer has further  
complicated matters and that aspect is in the hands  of the FSCS, having had this case 
referred to them  by the FOS.  However,  in that long period  and in response to the FOS 
question, there has been no contact from the FSCS  in what is likely to be a case  that may 
take a considerable time to resolve.  We are not even sure that the FSCS will accept 
outstanding claims  in respect of cancelled policies is within  their remit and feel that the FOS 
should take this into account.
Ref: DRN223786227In [the investigators  opinion], the suggestion  was that SJP should pay compensation 
calculated on the basis of the cost of the new policy that replaced the SJP policies up until 
the intended expiry  date of those covers. T queried  as to what date would be used given 
varying expiry dates and suggested a mid-point pro-rata calculation in the interests of 
fairness to both parties.
In an attempt to catalogue the costs incurred by T, the following listing  is not exclusive:
a.Increase cost of insurance in Feb 2017  it was stated by SJP that the annual 
cost of van insurance was £3,000 per vehicle.  The urgent need  for alternate  
insurance to be arranged given the unilateral  cancellation by SJP called for a cost 
of £4,400 per vehicle,  inclusive of [tax] initially, before  the addition  of credit 
charges ([Ts new broker] charged 3% with no commission added) so an 
increased annual  cost of £1,400  per vehicle  (28 vans on cover at start of the 
policy).
b.The failure to return  the refund to T after cancellation of their policies by SJP  
we have never been appraised of this amount but given  that in their FLR, SJP 
referred to an amount  outstanding to [the finance provide] was circa £82,000 and 
in their recent attempt  to reach an agreement with T (see covering email), SJP 
refer to an amount  owing of £58,415, this suggests  the refund was circa 
£23,500.
c.The [finance provider]  loans were for amounts that bore no resemblance  to the 
total of the premiums  of the various policies arranged by SJP and this should  not 
be a factor in any calculation.
d.T still maintains that SJP let them down on claims service  and having paid a six-
figure sum to [the van hire company] maintain the view that SJP failed under their 
duty of care to T. However  even  if it is held that the responsibility  for claims 
payments were the responsibility of [the insurer] and now effectively the FSCS, 
there still remains the question of legal costs and interest which  T says would not 
have incurred had SJP provided  the claims service that T were paying a separate 
mandatory fee for. 
e.Hurt to their business  reputation,  increased accountancy fees,  interest cannot be 
easily quantified but nevertheless need to be accounted for in the quantum 
calculation. 
f.Finally statutory interest needs to be added from 2017  until such time as any 
FOS award is actually paid by SJP. 
I asked SJP to comment on Ts claimed losses, as detailed above.  SJP said:
T has provided  details  of their losses all of which we note are unsubstantiated and have 
provided our further commentary as below.
While we sympathise with the situation, the administration of the insurer  is beyond our 
control. T was aware of the insurer, as this was discussed at length with [Mr] F. The FSCS 
should be dealing  with any valid claims against the insurer irrespective of if the policy is live, 
providing they have  been  reported. 
Our history notes that have been  provided  as evidence clearly  show  that when a claim was 
reported to us it was dealt  with immediately, had T followed our simple claims procedure 
then they would not have  been in this situation,  as the claims  would have been  settled  by the 
insurer in good  time.  One of the biggest  issues here was that no information  was provided by 
Ref: DRN223786228T when an incident happened, sometimes months after an accident  had occurred, we would 
be asked to get the vehicle repaired.  This makes it almost impossible for a claim to be 
settled as without  knowing locations,  circumstances, who was driving etc.
We have addressed each part of the schedule of losses below:
a)The policy was cancelled as T failed to complete the direct debit agreements  and you 
will appreciate that a policy cannot  continue  without a valid payment  mechanism.  The 
increased cost further illustrates our point that a fleet policy would have  been  more 
expensive for the customer. It is conjecture  to say that the "urgent nature"  increased 
the premium. Even if we were to accept  this point as correct  (which we don't),  T 
would need to evidence that cheaper cover  would have been available.  The new 
broker is responsible  for advising  T to go down this route,  if the client wanted  to 
continue to pay approx.  £3K per vehicle they should  have continued to pay SJP for 
cover.
b)The original cost in premiums including cancellation refunds at the point the policy  
was cancelled was £123,138.80. Payments were received  from T totalling 
£55,359.50. At the point  of cancellation,  the total debt to SJP was £67,779.30.  SJP 
were able to agree  a further refund of £9,364.25  with [the insurer] some weeks  later 
leaving a total debt of £58,415.05. The fact that T has not paid for the cost of the 
cover that they had which  cannot  be disputed (some claims have been settled & 
evidence has been provided of cover)  how can a claim  for refunded  premiums  be 
made, the refund was used to reduce the amount of money  that was owed to SJP by 
T. T surely at the very least  must  pay for the cover  that they had. There  is no 
financial loss here to T, in fact it is quite the opposite, the financial loss is to SJP, T 
had full cover for all vehicles and didn't  even  pay for 50% of the cost.  The offer from 
SJP to come to an agreement with T was not a recent one, this offer was passed to 
the ombudsman  several months  ago and should  have  been  relayed to T, the offer 
being to write off the debt of £58,415, owed to SJP.
c)The loans arranged  through  [the finance  provider] were  to the penny to cover  the 
cost of insurance through SJP, at the point  the 4 loans were arranged through  [the 
finance provider]  in order to assist T to be able to continue to pay for the cover they 
needed. As was previously confirmed by the ombudsman  following their 
investigation, these  loans must have been discussed and evidenced as [the finance 
provider] have sent the ombudsman copies of the signed agreements signed  by [Mr] 
F.  
d)SJP has provided evidence relating to T's comments  on the claims service this 
already, an insurer  cannot  be expected to settle  a claim without knowing anything 
about it or not knowing anything often until months  after the incident. The Fleet  was 
purely managed  by T and SJP cannot be held responsible for poor admin processes 
at T's head office. Our history notes  clearly show that claims reported  to us were  
actioned immediately, as do emails that have  also been  provided as evidence.
e)The reputational damage to T's business  is pure conjecture and should not be 
considered. If they have arranged alternative cover,  how is there any reputational 
damage? I fail to see how this would result in increased accountancy  fees.
f)We would dispute that any interest would be payable. We have at all times  complied 
with the requests for information and were keen to draw this matter to a speedy 
conclusion. The delays are not the fault of SJP.
I fail to see that there has been any financial loss to T, T made the decision to stop contact 
with SJP and follow  advice of the new broker. This has caused SJP to have no other option 
than to cancel  T's insurance SJP cannot insure  a client  that does not pay for policies. The 
Ref: DRN223786229fact that the new broker was not able to offer a policy through  [the insurers agent  because 
Ts new broker  didnt  have an agency  agreement] only makes the situation worse, as best 
advice would have  been to allow the policies to run their course  paying a far lower premium  
and if the client  was really  unhappy  with SJP they could have obtained a policy from the new 
broker at expiry. SJP have provided  a large amount of evidence  to prove that T was actually  
quite happy with the service that they were getting  from SJP, a letter from [Mr] F (T's director 
that dealt with SJP) which cannot be dismissed, [Mr] F and [Mr] W are still clients  of SJP, T 
took a new policy for Liability out with SJP after the original transfer to the new broker,  why 
would they do this if they were unhappy?  It is clear that the new broker is very persuasive 
and has not really considered the detriment  to their client with the advice they have given.
In conclusion the advice provided  on inception of all polices was in the best interest of the 
client and at no time has the client been  financially affected by the actions taken.
We understand that the ombudsman's decisions are to put the client in the position they 
would have been in had the issues not occurred.  Although we do not agree  with the 
outcome, we would  like to make  the point that even if we do accept that a fleet policy would  
have been more suitable, the customer would still have had to pay the appropriate premium 
for this policy. In addition,  they would need  to pay the time on risk charge (even if we 
assume this is entirely pro-rata)  for the previous  policy as cover  was held and was in force 
for all vehicles prior to cancellation. As it stands, T has only partially paid the time on risk 
charge for this period.  We feel that our offer to waive the remaining time on risk charges is 
more than reasonable, as T will in effect  be receiving a benefit that they were not entitled to 
(i.e. they have not paid in full for cover  held).  
We would  re-iterate our offer to write off the debt owed to us of £58,415 in order  to draw this 
matter to a conclusion.
my provisional findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to uphold  
this complaint in part on the same grounds as explained in my first provisional  decision. Ill 
explain why.
The parties have  made  a lot of detailed points and Ive considered  them carefully.  I will only 
comment on what I feel is necessary to reach a decision on the key outstanding issues.
suitability of the policies
I have considered SJPs  comments  in response to my first provisional decision carefully. But 
Im not intending to change my findings. I will respond to SJPs comments  as follows.
I havent been provided with a statement of demands and needs which I assume SJP would 
have completed when advising T as to the best course of action for Ts circumstances. And 
Ive not seen any convincing evidence to satisfy me that the fleet policy option was 
considered at the very beginning but decided against, or that there were no fleet policies 
available to T at that time.  The implication given  by SJP is that a fleet policy  was considered  
as they say the mini fleet policies would also allow [T] to build up fleet experience to take to 
the market, allowing a standard fleet policy to be obtained at a later stage. SJPs reference 
to mini  fleet policies is to the individual policies they arranged for T. Yet SJPs email to a 
fleet specialist  agent on 10 June 2016 asking them to look at a fleet policy for T was less 
Ref: DRN223786230than seven weeks after Ts first policy was incepted on 22 April. SJP obviously felt the need 
to make an approach  for a fleet policy very early  on so I question how much consideration 
had been given to the suitability of such a policy before the first policy was taken out at 
which time SJP were aware that T intended  to expand rapidly. I would find it unlikely that 
SJP would consider  seven weeks  to be a sufficient period of time to be able to say T had 
built up fleet experience  to take to the market.  But I think  the email  of 10 June  is an 
indication that SJP felt very early on that a fleet policy was more suitable for T. And as 
detailed in my provisional decision, SJP were later on explicit in saying  a fleet policy  was 
more suitable for T, yet SJP kept arranging more individual policies. 
SJP again accept that a fleet policy could have  been arranged in October  2016,  but they 
said they decided  against that due to the claims made on the other policies, [T] would have 
been paying twice for the same cover. That was at a time when SJP said a fleet policy was 
more suitable  for T. But I dont agree with SJPs reason for not taking out a fleet policy  at 
that time.  I dont accept  that T would have been paying  twice for the same cover. SJP said 
that pro-rata refunds could have been  obtained  for the individual policies on vans that 
werent subject to a claim. But pro-rata refunds wouldnt be given for vans  that had claims. 
So, I see no reason  why SJP, who were  of the belief  a fleet policy was more  suitable at that 
time, didnt  cancel the policies on the vans for which they could get pro-rata refunds and 
leave the policies for the vans they couldnt get refunds on to run their course. So, if for 
example at that time T had insured 50 vans and 15 of those had claims which  meant pro-
rata refunds  wouldnt  been given, I think SJP could have cancelled  the policies for the 35 
vans for which pro-rata refunds would have been given. And those 35 vans  could  have been  
put into a new fleet policy  while the remaining 15 vans continued under the existing 
individual policies  until they lapsed. So, while there would  have  been  two sets of policies, on 
the one hand a new single fleet policy and on the other a number of individual  policies, T 
wouldnt have been paying twice as suggested by SJP. The cover  for each individual  van 
would have been paid just once.  And the unsuitable,  individual  policies would have been 
phased out as and when  they came to an end. But, as I explained in my provisional decision,  
every time SJP arranged  a new, individual policy with a maximum of 10 vans they extended 
the period of time T remained with unsuitable  policies with the same  insurer.  And because it 
was probable a claim would be made  on a van within  each new individual  policy of 10 vans,  
following SJPs reasoning for not taking out a more suitable fleet policy,  they would  have 
continued to arrange a new,  unsuitable, individual policy every time T reached  10 vans on 
the latest policy.
SJP said: In my opinion,  due to the claims  experience and risk type the cost of a standalone 
[fleet] policy would have been  more  expensive than the current  mini fleet's on cover with less 
flexibility for the client to down size the fleet. Standard fleet cases can include  a minimum 
deposit which could  result in a 75% time on risk charge from day one.  This comment  by 
SJP contradicts their earlier opinion  that a single,  fleet policy was more  suitable for T by 
October 2016. 
SJP also said: We cannot agree that the policies were unsuitable, as they provided cover  
for the vehicles that needed  to be covered.  You will indeed note that the vehicles  have been  
involved in incidents  that have had the claims paid so it is incorrect  to say the policies were 
not suitable. SJP seem to suggest that claims being paid is the determining factor whether 
or not the individual policies were suitable.  But SJP are aware that, although some claims 
were paid, a large  number  of claims werent paid despite all the necessary information  being 
provided to the insurer and their claims handler.  So, using SJPs reasoning, the individual 
policies couldnt  have been  suitable.
Ref: DRN223786231For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I intend to find that the 
individual policies  were  unsuitable. While SJP dispute that they were unsuitable from the 
start they accept that by October  2016 a single fleet policy  was more suitable, yet they 
continued to arrange new, individual policies.
I dont intend to make a compensatory  award  under this head, because I havent  been 
provided with any convincing evidence as to what loss, if any, T suffered as a result of SJP 
arranging unsuitable  policies. 
the loans and cancellation of the policies
I have dealt with this aspect of the complaint extensively in my first provisional decision. SJP 
in their comments reiterate that they acted in Ts best interest in the way they dealt with the 
loans and they did nothing inappropriate.  T suggest  SJPs motivation was to earn 
commission and additional interest SJP added  to the rate given by the finance  provider. 
SJP were providing a service, so its to be expected that they were to make money from that 
service. But as I explained in my provisional  decision, the way they dealt  with the loans  was 
inappropriate. Misrepresentations were made as to the identity of the insurers and the 
purpose of the loans  which fell foul of the finance agreements. And even if SJP acted  in Ts 
interests, their actions put T at risk of being  in default of the loan agreements. Had T been 
held in default there would have been  serious, detrimental consequences  for them.
SJP seek to justify their actions by saying Mr F was aware of how the loans were structured. 
That may have been  the case,  but Mr Fs knowledge  doesnt  mean  SJP were justified in 
making misrepresentations  on Ts behalf  that could have led to serious  consequences. SJP 
were in a position  of trust with expert insurance knowledge who were providing professional 
advice. So, it was incumbent on them to ensure that things were done  properly.
And, as I explained in my first provisional decision,  I dont believe Mr H or Mr W were  aware  
of how SJP had structured the loans and I dont believe  it was discussed during the 
January 2017  meeting. That is why I think SJP never made mention of it in any of their 
written correspondence.  
Although T had cash-flow problems they were willing and able to continue paying their 
instalments. And at the time SJP cancelled the policies T werent in arrears.  It was therefore 
unreasonable for SJP to cancel the policies. Im therefore intending to uphold  this part of the 
complaint.
At the time SJP cancelled the seven policies on 15 February 2017, a large  number of vans  
were on cover. The first policy had around  seven more weeks  before it was due to end. The 
seventh policy had well over nine months to run as it wasnt  due to end until the end of 
November 2017.  SJP wrongly cancelling the policies meant that T were deprived of using 
the policies for the remainder of their terms. T took out a single fleet policy with anther 
insurer on 17 February 2017. T said they are entitled to a refund as SJP obtained  refunds  
from the insurer. SJP said T still owed almost  £60,000 for the time they were on cover.
SJP said the total cost of the premiums  for all seven policies at the time they were  cancelled 
was £123,138.80.  SJP said they got a refund of £9,364.25 from the insurer,  which  I presume 
was a pro-rata refund for the remaining periods where T were not on cover.  The policies only 
entitled T to pro-rata  refunds  on vans that werent  subject  to claims. So, vans  that had claims 
wouldnt have entitled T to pro-rata refunds of premiums. But that would have been the case 
Ref: DRN223786232had T cancelled the policies.  But that wasnt the case. As I intend to find that SJP 
unreasonably cancelled the policies  I think T are also entitled  to pro-rata refunds on those 
vans that had claims.  Thats because had SJP not cancelled the policies T would have 
continued to enjoy cover  for those vans. And because SJP cancelled those policies early 
while there were still periods between seven weeks and over nine months  left to run, T had 
to take out new insurance. 
SJP should therefore provide a detailed breakdown showing  the following:
The total premium  cost of the seven policies.
The premium cost per van under each policy.
The total amount  of premiums T paid for each of the seven policies.
The number of days T were on cover for each of the seven policies. The seven 
policies all started on different dates  but were all cancelled on 15 February 2017.
The number of days each van was on cover. 
The number of days each van had remaining on the policies from 15 February 2017, 
until their intended end dates (the pro-rata  days remaining).
The premium cost of each vans pro-rata  days remaining on the policies  as at 
15 February 2017.
The purpose of the above  breakdown  is to establish  the pro-rata refunds T are entitled to for 
all the vans that were on cover at the time of the policy cancellations on 15 February 2017. 
Any pro-rata refunds  should include all the vans that were on cover including  vans that had 
claims which wouldnt have entitled  T to a refund  had they cancelled the policies. T should 
confirm whether or not they agree with SJPs calculations. And if T dont agree they should 
explain why they dont.
If the above calculations show that the total premiums T paid for all seven policies is higher 
than the cost of the total premiums for the time on cover for all the vans  on all seven policies, 
then SJP should refund T the difference together with simple  interest  at 8% a year from 
15 February 2017 until payment is made.
the reporting of claims
T didnt agree with my provisional decision  that even if SJP reported all claims to the insurer 
promptly it would have  made no difference because of the insurers failure to settle the 
claims even after they had all the relevant claims information.
T said because SJP charged  a fee for providing a claims service,  SJP overrode the insurer  
responsibility to process claims . The ultimate  responsibility for paying claims is with the 
insurer and not SJP. While SJP clearly had a role within  that process, its clear that there 
were failings by the insurer. I say that because after the cancellation  of the policies  and well 
before the insurer went into administration, all the necessary claims information was 
provided to both the insurer  and their claims handler. Ts complaint is that SJP failed to pass 
on claims details to the insurer and/or the insurers claims handler.  And that led to claims not 
being paid which led to Ts van hire company  instigating legal proceedings for a winding up 
order against T. T managed to avert a winding up order by agreeing  to settle  the outstanding 
amounts the van hire company  asked for. T had to pay substantial  amounts, including  legal 
fees and interest.  Had the claims on their policies been paid I think T could have avoided the 
problems they experienced  with the van hire company. But the winding up petition wasnt  
made until August  2017 and that order was dismissed in January 2018  after T agreed to pay 
the monies claimed by the van hire company. 
Ref: DRN223786233As I explained in my first provisional decision,  even if it were  the case  that SJP failed to pass  
on claims information to the insurer on a number  of Ts claims in a timely manner or a at all, I 
dont think that would  have made any difference to the trouble T subsequently experienced 
with the van hire company. Thats because soon after February 2017, the necessary 
information relating  to the claims were passed on directly to the insurer and their claims 
handler by T, their new broker and our investigator. But, despite having  the necessary 
information about the claims, the insurer failed to pay the claims despite having  ample  time 
to do so before the winding up petition in August 2017 and before  the insurer  went  into 
administration at the end of 2018. And because the insurer failed to pay the claims, T had 
made a separate complaint about the insurer because  they were  responsible  for the claims 
not being paid.
T said:  It is interesting  to note that the ultimate  insurer [name] has issued litigation against  
their intermediary through whom SJP had arranged the cover  in a multi-million  pound law 
suit relating to the alleged inadequate  processing  of claims  so it seems that it may not 
have been the ultimate  insurer that let T down but the intermediary with whom SJP enjoyed  
agency facilities. SJP therefore under the law of agency should have acted in the capacity of 
agent for the policyholder  and failed to do so. This is not a point that was raised before so 
SJP havent had the opportunity to respond. But I dont think SJP can be held responsible  for 
the actions of the insurer or their claims  handling  agent for the failure  to pay claims once the 
insurer and their claims handler had all the necessary information.
T also said: 
It is a prima-facie of an insurance broker to undertake  due diligence  on all parties in 
the insurance chain  both in terms of service and claims  paying ability  prior to a 
contract of insurance incepting and we challenge SJP to provide  evidence that they 
sought to undertake any activity of this nature. 
There is online anecdotal evidence  that this intermediary through whom  SJP placed 
this business have a certain  reputation for dealing with non-regulated insurers who 
passport into the UK market under EU regulations. It would seem that [the insurer]  
the third insurer that they have dealt with who have encountered financial difficulties 
and currently a fourth insurer is under close scrutiny by [overseas] regulators.  [Ts 
new broker] celebrate their 30th year in business  this year and can report  that they 
have never  placed  business through this intermediary .and never  will. 
This wasnt a complaint  point raised with SJP before the complaint was brought to our 
service and SJP havent had the opportunity to address it. If T want  to pursue this point  they 
would have to raise a new complaint with SJP.
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I dont  intend  to uphold this 
head of complaint.
removing vans from the policies
T said that although they do not agree with my provisional decision under this heading, they 
will accept  my decision to not uphold it in view of the lack of documentary  evidence to 
support the fact that telephone instructions were given to delete specific  vehicles.  I will 
therefore not comment on this issue any further.
Ref: DRN223786234Ts losses
In response to Ts comments  on their losses, I note the following:
As explained above, I think  T should only be responsible  for the time on cover for 
their seven  policies.  And they should get pro-rata refunds  on all vans whether or not 
claims were  made. That may or may not result  in a refund to T. T agreed with our 
investigators suggestion that SJP should  pay part of Ts new fleet policy  that was 
taken out on 17 February  2017,  to replace the seven policies arranged by SJP.  Our 
investigator had suggested that SJP pay the cost of Ts new policy until the dates the 
SJP arranged polices  ended. But that is not what I intend to ask SJP to do. The 
seven policies arranged by SJP were unsuitable for the reasons explained in my first 
provisional decision and above.  Therefore, even though I think  SJP cancelling those 
policies was unfair, it meant that T were able to free themselves  from those policies 
early and take out a fleet policy that better  suited their needs. So, ultimately,  I think T 
not having to continue  with the SJP arranged policies  was to their advantage. So, 
rather than ask SJP to pay for Ts new fleet policy until the seven policies would have 
ended (the last of which  would have been  the end of November 2017), I think  T 
should only be responsible for the time they were on cover for the seven policies. 
And that includes being given  pro-rata  refunds on all the vans including  those that 
were subject  to claims.
T said that under  the seven  policies  arranged by SJP the cost of insuring each van 
was around £3,000  per year whereas under their new fleet policy  the cost per van 
was around £4,400.  T suggest  that SJP should  pay the difference. But other than 
suggesting the increased cost was due to the urgent  need  for alternate insurance to 
be arranged given  the unilateral cancellation by SJP, no convincing evidence has 
been provided why the cost per van was higher  and why SJP should be held 
responsible for the increase.
T said:  The [finance provider] loans  were for amounts that bore no resemblance  to 
the total of the premiums of the various  policies arranged by SJP and this should not 
be a factor in any calculation. Without  further clarification its not clear to me what is 
meant by this. My understanding  is that, although I think  SJPs handling of the loans 
wasnt reasonable for the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, the 
purpose of the loans  was to fund Ts insurance policies. And SJP confirmed the loans 
were only used  to pay for the policies. I understand that both parties have details  of 
the policies, the premiums and the loans.  So, comparing the loans  with the cost of 
the policies should  be something  that the parties can do if there are any concerns.
T feel that their losses  relating to the van hire company taking action was as a result 
of SJPs failure to handle their claims appropriately.  But Ive explained, in my first 
provisional decision and above,  that I dont intend  to uphold that part of the 
complaint. And that aspect of Ts complaint against the insurer is currently under 
consideration by the FSCS.  T said: even if it is held that the responsibility for claims 
payments were the responsibility of [the insurer] and now effectively the FSCS, there 
still remains the question  of legal costs and interest which  T says would  not have 
incurred had SJP provided the claims service that T were paying  a separate 
mandatory fee for. But given the legal costs and interest  T had to pay as a result  of 
the van hire companys  action  are inextricably linked to the non-payment of their 
claims under the policies,  its not something  that can or should be split. 
T suggest that any compensation  should  take account of: Hurt to their business 
reputation, increased accountancy fees,  interest cannot be easily  quantified but 
nevertheless need to be accounted  for in the quantum calculation. Without further 
Ref: DRN223786235explanation, supporting evidence and quantification, I dont intend to ask SJP to 
compensate T under these heads.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend  to uphold  this complaint in part. I intend to require S 
& J Palmer Ltd to pay T any premium refunds if due as explained under the loans  and 
cancellation of the policies  heading,  above.  If any refunds are due I intend  to require SJP to 
also pay interest on any amounts due from 15 February 2017 until any refunds are paid to T.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2237862