K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Ts credit card account  when  she applied  for the card. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint  because:
 I think Lloyds made  Mrs T aware that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to take 
it. Mrs T acknowledges  she ticked the yes box to say she wanted the PPI, but says 
she wasnt sure what it was, and didnt know shed  have to pay for it. 
 Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mrs T, but it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable 
for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. Mrs T told Lloyds 
shed been employed  for two years when  she applied for the card, so she was eligible 
for it. I understand Mrs T became a student a little while later,  but it was, by then,  for 
her to check if the PPI still suited  her
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Mrs T chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover.  She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  
and the policy  was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mrs T would have  made a different decision if better information had been  provided. 
On balance I think she would  still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Ts comments,  including what shes  said about her age 
when she bought the PPI. But Mrs T was over the minimum  age to get a credit card, and if 
she was deciding about that, then I think she could have questioned anything  she was 
unclear about  on the application  form, or any items  she didnt recognise on her statements 
when they were sent to her. She hasnt  said she did either  of these things, so this point 
doesnt change  my conclusion.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  24 October 2019. 
Ref: DRN28595692Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2859569