K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that MCE  Insurance  Company  Limiteds agent caused further damage 
to his motorbike  when he made  a claim under his motorcycle insurance policy.
background
Mr Fs motorbike was vandalised in an attempted theft. He reported the incident to his 
insurer, MCE in February  2019. 
MCE arranged for Mr Fs motorbike to be collected by a salvage agent. An engineer  
inspected Mr Fs motorbike and declared it a total loss. 
MCE rejected Mr Fs claim as it applied an exclusion under the policy.  Mr F has raised a 
separate complaint about this with MCE. So it doesnt form part of my decision.
The salvage  agent returned  Mr Fs motorbike  to him. Mr F complained  that further damage 
had been caused while in their care. 
MCE didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. The engineer provided photos of the bike when it was 
collected and when it was returned.  MCE couldnt see a difference in its condition. The 
engineers report  identified areas  of damage consistent with the incident and in areas  Mr F 
said had new damage.
Mr F asked  us to look at his complaint. He provided photos he said were  taken  after the bike 
was returned to him. He said these photos showed  new damage. 
Our investigator looked at all of the photos  and couldnt see a difference.  So she didnt 
recommend Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. 
Mr F said the photos clearly show new damage. So he wants an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. 
Mr F said there was new damage as follows: a mirror was missing, the rear of the bike was 
damaged, side panels  damaged, dented tank and the seat was ripped. 
One of the photos provided  by Mr F shows the left wing mirror is missing. But the photos 
provided by the engineer of the bike when it was returned show the mirror was in place, but 
the right wing mirror  was damaged. The engineers report highlighted the following areas  of 
damage: 
Ignition barrel  has been  forced no apparent signs of damage to headstock  of frame. 
Further damage to wiring loom, levers,  handlebars and grips, mirrors, lockset, 
headlamp, fairing  panels ,tailpiece panels, indicators, footrests and hangers,  
instruments, gear change pedal,  rear brake  lever.. there is long standing  surface 
corrosion to the front forks and chassis parts and seat cover  has cracked.
Ref: DRN22347532MCE has provided a recording of a call between the agent and Mr F. The agent  asked  Mr F 
if it would  be ok to deliver  the bike back to his address  and post his keys through his 
letterbox if he wasnt there.  Mr F agreed. The agent  said they would call Mr F the day before.  
They didnt. But I dont  think  it did anything wrong when it delivered Mr Fs bike as agreed. 
The only discrepancy  I can see is with the nearside  wing mirror which  is missing  in Mr Fs 
photos. But it wasnt missing in the return photos  provided by the salvage agent. I 
understand Mr F will be disappointed with my decision but there isnt enough to persuade 
me that Mr Fs bike was further damaged while under the care of MCEs agent. So I dont 
think MCE needs to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2234753