K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about a mis-sold loan from Back to Health Chiropractic Clinics Limited 
(BTH).
background
In October  2015 Mrs S purchased services from BTH and entered  into a finance  agreement 
for £2600 over a period of 4 years with an interest rate of 0%.
Mrs S says that she didnt  realise she had entered into a loan agreement.  She says she 
thought shed set up a direct debit for £50 per month which she could cancel at any time. 
She says she didnt sign a loan agreement  and wasnt provided with any terms and 
conditions. Mrs S says she only discovered shed  entered into a loan agreement when she 
tried to cancel her direct debit after 2 years.
In its final response BTH said Mrs S had been  provided with the terms and conditions of the 
loan including  the cancellation policy. It also said she had received a significant  amount of 
treatment at the practice and offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs S wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said he hadnt seen enough evidence to conclude that BTH had 
done anything  wrong.
Mrs S didnt agree. She said she wasnt present when the loan agreement was set up and 
had only provided  her direct debit  details on a piece of paper. She said shed  been  told that 
she could have a family  and friends  rate and that a direct debit of £50 per month  would cover  
as many treatments as she needed and that this could be cancelled at any time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has said that the loan agreement was mis-sold. In order to uphold  this complaint I 
would need to be satisfied that the business  made  an untrue statement of fact which  induced  
Mrs S to enter into the agreement.
There are no notes  from the time when Mrs S entered  into the agreement.  The person who 
sold the agreement  no longer works at the business so it hasnt been possible to obtain a 
statement from him. Because  I wasnt present  when  the Health 100 plan was sold to Mrs S, I 
cant be certain of exactly what was said. In circumstances  like this I need to look at the 
available documentation  to decide  what is most likely to have happened.
The business has said that the loan was arranged and agreed through  an online platform 
which has a video which explains the process  of obtaining the loan. It has provided 
information showing that the terms and conditions of the loan, the payment options and the 
cancellation policy were  all covered in the video. The business  has said that it isnt possible 
to apply for a loan without watching the video first. Given that Mrs S was approved  for a 
loan, I think its more  likely than not that she mustve  watched the video.
Ref: DRN29397352Ive looked at the credit agreement. This has been  electronically signed by Mrs S. The 
business has said that a printed copy was provided  to Mrs S but Mrs S says shes never had 
this. Even  if Mrs S is right about that, I think shes been provided  with adequate information 
about the agreement via the online video. In signing the electronic copy  of the agreement, 
Mrs S has confirmed  that shes read and understood the terms.
I can also see that Mrs S provided  her bank details to the business  at the time when the loan 
was taken out. I dont  think  Mrs S wouldve signed  the electronic agreement  and provided 
her bank details unless she intended  to take out the loan. 
I can see that the agreement ran for two years  before Mrs S raised any questions  about it. I 
think Mrs S wouldve been aware  that payments of £50 per month  were  being paid from her 
bank account  to the finance company. Because of this, Im not persuaded that she didnt  
know shed entered  into a loan agreement.
Theres nothing in the credit agreement which says the plan can be cancelled  at any time. 
Im satisfied that the total cost of the loan and the term is clearly set out. Im also persuaded 
that Mrs S was aware  that the term was for 4 years, as shes  said herself that she was 
advised to sign up for 4 years and that the payments wouldnt be more than £50 per month. 
This is consistent with the terms of the agreement.  So I dont think  Mrs S was given 
inaccurate or misleading information or that the business made an untrue statement of fact.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im not persuaded that theres been  a misrepresentation. I cant  
safely conclude that the loan agreement  was mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2939735