K820x#14complaint
Ms H says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  The policy was originally  sold by Debenhams,  but FICL has 
accepted responsibility for the sale and complaint.
background
Ms H bought the policy in 2003  at the same time as taking out a store card.  Our adjudicator  
didnt uphold  the complaint. Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Hs complaint because:
 I think FICL made Ms H aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it. I appreciate that Ms H says she signed  where  it was indicated she 
should, but I think the application form is broken up into reasonably clear sections  
and Ms H signed separately in the section  titled protecting  your account.  So on 
balance, I dont  think she was misled into taking it.
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms H so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did still have to give her clear information to make up her own mind.
 Its possible the information FICL gave Ms H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. And although she was entitled to sick pay and had some savings, the benefits of 
this PPI policy were reasonably significant.  Its also clear that there was a cost for the 
cover. Overall, I dont  think clearer information wouldve put Ms H off taking it.
 Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Ms H wouldve been significantly affected  by any of the 
exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  so I think it wouldve been useful to her if 
something went wrong. 
Ref: DRN23959772Ms H made a number  of points in response  to the adjudicator and I can see why, with 
hindsight, she might not now consider the policy to be good value. But I have to look back to 
the time of sale and think about what did (or should have)  happened  then. And I dont think I 
can say, based  on her circumstances then, that better information wouldve put her off taking 
out the policy.
Im sorry  if my decision  is disappointing for Ms H, but I dont think FICL mis-sold her this PPI 
policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2395977