K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that ReAssure Limited  (ReAssure)  provided misleading information  about 
the level of annual income hed receive  from his two pension  policies.
background to this complaint 
Mr T had two pension policies managed by ReAssure. Both policies  included  a Guaranteed 
Annuity Rate (GAR) at age 65 on 18 June  2018. Mr T originally had a single  policy.  The 
second policy started after he increased premiums.
On 3 May and 4 June 2018,  as Mr T was approaching his 65th birthday, ReAssure sent him 
letters setting out the annual income he was projected to receive.  The projected figures 
werent guaranteed because the policy fund values fluctuated on a daily basis until such time 
as Mr Ts annual  income was secured  the only guaranteed element was the GAR used to 
convert the fund values  into an annual income.
Based on the information provided by ReAssure in those two letters,  Mr T says he believed 
he would  receive  an annual income of around  £9,800. So it came as a surprise  when 
ReAssure later offered  an annual  income of around  £7,200 and explained that this was in 
respect of his two policies. Mr T and his financial adviser thought he was entitled to a higher 
annual income  based on the information provided by ReAssure.  So they complained.
ReAssure didnt uphold  this complaint since it was satisfied it hadnt  provided misleading 
information about the level of annual income  payable.
Mr T didnt  accept ReAssures decision.  He referred  this complaint to us. He told us that as 
he approached  his 65th birthday he was relying  on ReAssure to provide correct  information. 
And that based  on the information received,  he had made plans hed receive an annual  
income of around  £9,800 from age 65. To put things right, Mr T said he wanted  us to direct  
ReAssure to pay him the higher annual  income.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld but not on the basis requested 
by Mr T. Our investigator concluded that the information provided by ReAssure in its letters  
of 3 May and 4 June 2018 was unclear  and could easily have misled Mr T to incorrectly 
believe his annual income was higher than was actually the case. Our investigator didnt 
think Mr T was entitled to the higher  annual  income and was in the correct  financial position. 
But he did think Mr T had suffered some distress  and inconvenience through  his 
expectations not being met as a result of the unclear information. Therefore  he 
recommended ReAssure pay £150  compensation to Mr T.
In response to our investigators opinion, Mr T didnt  make  any comments about the 
recommended amount  of compensation. ReAssure responded to say that it maintained its 
position it hadnt provided misleading information  about the level of annual  income  payable.  
So it disagreed it should pay £150 compensation.
Since agreement couldnt  be reached, this complaint  has been  referred  to me to issue a 
final decision.
Ref: DRN24078572my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr T believes hes entitled to a higher annual income than that offered by ReAssure. He 
says this because  of the information provided by ReAssure in its letters of 3 May and 4 June 
2018. Ive read both letters and make the following  observations:
3 May 2018   This is a two page letter addressed to Mr Ts financial adviser. It showed 
that, based on a fund value of £67,219.08, Mr T would receive an annual income of 
£7,239.36. The first page quoted  a single  policy number and refers to policy  in the 
singular rather  than plural, presumably because the letter template is designed to deal 
with a single policy  only. The penultimate  paragraph on the second page states Please 
note this quote also includes policy [number]. So the quote was based on the value of 
both policies.  But based on the way the information  is presented and repeated  reference  
to policy in the singular, I think its entirely possible that the adviser and Mr T could 
easily have missed  the penultimate paragraph  and incorrectly believed  the annual  
income figure  quoted related to a single policy only.
4 June 2018  This is a one page  letter addressed to Mr Ts financial adviser. This was 
to confirm ReAssures  records  had been updated  to show  that the adviser had been 
appointed as the servicing agent  for Mr Ts policies. The letter clearly informed the 
adviser that both of Mr Ts policies had to be taken together at the same  time and in the 
same manner.  Attached to this letter was a policy information sheet for one of Mr Ts 
policies. This showed that, based on a fund value of £23,364.34,  the annual income was 
£2,571.14. Upon receipt of this letter, I think the adviser ought to have  realised Mr T had 
two policies  and that information  sheet related to only one of them.
Im satisfied that Mr T had two policies and the correct total annual pension  of around £7,200 
offered by ReAssure in its letter  of 3 May 2018  was correct. Therefore Mr T is in the correct 
financial position in terms of the annual  pension offered by ReAssure. 
However, like our investigator,  I do understand why Mr T may have incorrectly  believed he 
was entitled to a higher annual pension based  on the way which the information  was 
presented in these  letters.  I do think ReAssure could  have explained things more clearly. 
The evidence shows that Mr T and his adviser  finally realised the correct annual  income  
position in October  2018. I havent seen  any evidence  Mr T made irreversible retirement  
plans based on his incorrect belief hed receive an annual income of about £9,800. In my 
view, hes only suffered a loss of expectation  and not an actual financial loss.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I direct ReAssure Limited to pay £150 compensation to Mr T, as 
recommended by our investigator. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Ref: DRN24078573Clint Penfold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2407857