K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold  them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1998.  According to the insurer, the 
first four years of cover  were free, and the policy was cancelled in 1999.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint, as it didnt look like Mr and Mrs S had ever paid 
anything for this policy. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.  
Having done that, Ive broadly come  to the same  conclusions  as our adjudicator and for 
much the same reasons.
Mr and Mrs S have  raised concerns about  the way their policy  may have been  sold,  which is 
understandable given  the widely publicised problems with some PPI policies. If I were  to 
have found that this policy was mis-sold,  then I would have told RBS to refund the premiums 
and interest that Mr and Mrs S had paid.
But according to the insurers  records, this policy was free for the first four years, which  
seems consistent with Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  product from the time.  And the insurers 
records say that the policy  was cancelled  in 1999,  before  the free period ran out. 
So according to the available evidence,  Mr and Mrs S never paid anything for this particular  
policy. And I dont have any evidence which shows that they did pay anything  for it. So 
I think its most likely  that Mr and Mrs S have not lost any money paying for this policy.
If Mr and Mrs S didnt  lose any money paying for the PPI, then there is nothing for RBS to 
refund to them, regardless of whether the policy was mis-sold or not. So I do not think that 
RBS owe Mr and Mrs S any money  for the sale of this particular  PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 November  2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2636611