K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F says Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs F bought the policy in 2001  at the same time as taking out a loan. They applied 
for the loan and PPI policy over the phone.  
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £707.15  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 36-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £189.56  with the PPI costing  an additional £22.34 making  the total 
monthly repayment £211.90.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs F only for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr and Mrs Fs monthly loan 
repayment for up to remaining term in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 
months in the event  of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mrs F was employed as an administrator. She has told us she was entitled to 
sick pay and redundancy pay. Mrs F also says her and Mr F had joint savings of up to 
£7,000 and had life cover. Mrs F has said she suffered  from some  medical  conditions  prior to 
the sale of the policy.   
Mrs F was the person covered by the policy, so Ive mainly looked  at her circumstances in
assessing this complaint.  However, because it was a joint loan, Ive also taken into account
Mr Fs circumstances.
Nationwide has sent us evidence to show that the loan account closed in September  2004.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Fs representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs F 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Fs representatives believe  there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr and Mrs F about  the poor value; 
Ref: DRN28556882The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs F 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim; and
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Fs. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN28556883The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Fs case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs F with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs F sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN28556884-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs F, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs F 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs F 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs F know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr and Mrs F have  provided some contradictory  evidence about how the PPI was sold to 
them. In one of the PPIQs  received  Mrs F has said she doesnt  remember how the PPI was 
sold or any details from the sale. Notes from Nationwide  show  that she told them  she 
couldnt remember any details from the sale either. However, weve  also received evidence 
from Mr and Mrs F that they were  pressured into the sale and that they remember  
Nationwide telling them  that taking out the PPI would improve  their chances of being 
approved for the loan. 
Unfortunately, due to the length of time that passed,  there is no call recording for me to listen 
to, so I dont know exactly  what was discussed at the time. In situations  like this I have to 
consider what evidence I do have to come  to a decision on what  I think  is more  likely to have 
happened. 
I have seen a copy of the loan agreement which was sent to Mr and Mrs F following the call. 
This shows the PPI listed under the heading Optional Credit Insurance and the cost of the 
policy was listed separate to the loan. So, I think it wouldve been clear  that the PPI was a 
separate and optional  product. Ive also considered  that the PPI was taken  out in Mrs Fs 
name only, so I think its likely this was something Mr and Mrs F discussed and they made 
the decision to take it out in Mrs Fs name only.
So, taking everything  into account and without  any stronger  evidence to the contrary, I think 
its more likely that Mr and Mrs F knew the policy was optional  and they agreed  to take it out 
without undue pressure.  
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mr and Mrs F disagreed.  But 
looking at what happened when Nationwide sold Mr and Mrs F the PPI, and what we know  
about how Nationwide usually sold these types  of policies  over the phone at the time, Ive 
not seen anything to persuade me that it provided advice so Ive also considered this to have 
been a non-advised sale.  I say this because Mr and Mrs F have provided two contradictory 
PPIQs  one stating they cant  remember  if they were advised  to take out the PPI or not, 
and one stating  that they were advised   and Ive not seen any evidence  that they were  
given a personal recommendation based on their circumstances  at the time. 
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs F. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Mr and 
Mrs F to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including  drawing to 
Ref: DRN28556885their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs F were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs F was unable  to work  through  life, accident, sickness  and unemployment.) I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs F would have  taken out 
the policy without  any sense of what the policy was. And I think Mr and Mrs F knew that the 
single premium being added to the loan was £707.15, the interest added  to the premium was 
£97.09, the total cost was £804.24 and the monthly cost was £22.34  (as this information 
was, in my view, sufficiently clear  on the loan agreement Mr and Mrs F signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs F agreed to take out the 
policy. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs F sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Fs representative has raised  a 
number of general points with regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Fs. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Fs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs F about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Fs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs F has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry 
codes and standards of good industry  practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide ought to have done  either.  
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs F? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs F suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ref: DRN28556886Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs F. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr 
and Mrs F suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs F would  have still taken out the policy, had Nationwide  done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs F says they would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs F had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs F chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs F thought they were  getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this differed 
is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs F has suffered any loss or 
detriment. 
As Ive already  said, the information Mr and Mrs F was given about  the cost and benefit was 
clear. But the information  about other  aspects  of the policy, such  as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs F would get back in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Fs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their loan payments)  were significantly different to what  the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs F thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any medical condition  or disease which Mrs F 
knew of, or should reasonable  have  known of on the start date, or , any medical 
condition or disease  for which she received treatment, advice or were referred for 
investigation during the 12 months before the start date which  reoccurs  within  12 
months of the start date;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs F wasnt a permanent  employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs F be unable to 
do any work;
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs F pause for thought   and may well have caused them to conclude that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs F from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for her. She was eligible for its benefits and 
Ref: DRN28556887it provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Regarding pre-existing medical 
conditions, Mrs F says she suffered  from some  medical conditions prior to the sale of the 
PPI and although she has explained that she required ongoing check-ups for such  
conditions, Im not persuaded this affected  her within  the 12 months  before the PPI was 
taken out. So I think its unlikely she wouldve thought any symptoms  would reoccur  in the 12 
months after the start date. After the initial 12 months of cover, Mrs F wouldve been  able to 
claim for any condition. I also havent seen  any evidence  to suggest she wouldve been 
caught by any of the other significant exclusions.  So, I still think  they had some good  
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs F would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.  
To make a disability claim, Mrs F needed to be totally  unable to do her normal  job and not be 
doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what she would have  
expected to make a claim. So it seems unlikely  she would have thought shed  been  able to 
make a successful claim if she was still working.
The policy did provide  a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled  early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Mr and Mrs F decided to repay  the loan early and cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs F would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  were  Mr and Mrs F made redundant, or unable  to work through 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr and 
Mrs F would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Fs representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs F would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and 
Mrs Fs circumstances  as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position 
Ref: DRN28556888Mr and Mrs F found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position  they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs F believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs F in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible, they wouldnt  have taken  out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.
So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs F compensation, as that would put them  in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Fs representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But this 
doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs F in a better  position than if everything  had happened as it 
should have done. 
Mr and Mrs Fs representative  has raised a number  of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that we are not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented  poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  
good faith meant Nationwide should  have disclosed the poor value and explained  the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Fs representative  has not said how these points apply to the specific  facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Fs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Fs particular 
case. But these  points doesnt  persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  - for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN28556889 my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2021.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2855688