K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Funding  Circle Ltd gave  insufficient notice of its intention to withdraw a 
service he had been using, and changed  its terms and conditions  without his consent.
background
Mr S had an account with Funding Circle. Funding  Circle operates a website where investors  
can buy and sell parts of peer to peer loans, or loan  parts. Loan parts can be sold at face 
value, or at a discount of up to 20 per cent, or at a premium of up to 3 per cent above face 
value.
Until 2017, investors could choose  between  two alternative ways  of buying and selling. They 
could either  make their own decisions and manually select their transactions,  or they could 
delegate their decisions  to an automatic tool provided by the website. But in that year 
Funding Circle decided to withdraw  the ability to make manual choices, and updated  its 
terms and conditions to reflect  this. In August it gave four weeks  notice of the change, and 
said that from 18 September investors would have  to accept the new terms if they wanted to 
carry on using the website, as the website would no longer continue to include a facility to 
make manual choices.  Investors who didnt accept the new terms would  lose access to the 
website. In the meantime, the usual sales fees would not be charged, in case they wanted to 
sell all their loan parts before the deadline.
Mr S did not agree  to the new terms,  and he complained. Funding Circle replied in 
September to say that if Mr S accepted  the new terms and conditions,  he wouldnt have to 
buy new loan parts after the cut-off date if he didnt want to  he could just continue to use 
the website to keep an eye on his account and finish selling his loan parts  (or wait for them  
to be paid back). Funding Circle would continue to recover  funds owed  to him and he would 
still be able to withdraw them.
Since Mr S was not satisfied with that answer  and he still didnt want to accept the new 
terms under  any circumstances, Funding  Circle later offered to allow him to request 
withdrawals after the 18th, directly to Funding Circle instead of through the website, which  
Funding Circle would  process manually  every three months. In October, Funding Circle 
offered to process  withdrawals every month, and to provide  him with account statements 
every month, and tax statements every  financial year. However, it insisted it was unable  to 
allow him to continue using the website unless he agreed to the new terms, nor could  it 
change the website back to work the way it used to. It also pointed out that Mr S had 
managed to sell all of his loans before the deadline  (except the bad loans  loans in default  
or in arrears,  for example).
Mr S accused Funding Circle  of being dishonest about the reasons it had given for the 
change in how the website worked,  and insisted that he should be allowed  to continue using 
the website without having to agree to the new terms. Funding Circle said it had been  open 
and honest about its reasons for the change. It said that since  Mr S had not consented to the 
new terms, then its service  was no longer available to him, but it thought it had offered him 
an alternative arrangement which was fair.
Since the parties had reached  an impasse,  Mr S brought this complaint to our Service. He 
said that four weeks notice was not long enough, as it had meant hed had to spend a lot of 
time and effort  in selling all his loan parts before the deadline and then trying  to find 
alternative businesses  he could invest with. He suggested that a reasonable notice period 
Ref: DRN20241242would have been six to twelve months,  and that he had missed out on £5,000 to £10,000 in 
interest which he could  have earned during  that period, but didnt get because he wasnt  
able to find the same interest rates elsewhere.  He said hed felt bullied  into selling his loan 
parts quickly  at face value, instead  of at premium value later.
Funding Circle said that it had told the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  what it had 
proposed to do before implementing the changes.  Four weeks  notice had been long 
enough, as Mr S had sold all of his loan parts during  that time, and other  investors had been 
able to as well. He had incurred no financial loss, as it had never guaranteed that loan parts  
would be sold at premium  value. But he could have listed them  for sale at premium  value 
before 18 September if hed wanted to.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He said he wouldnt consider Funding  Circles 
decision to change the way it operates, as that was outside the remit of our Service.  He 
thought that was a matter for the FCA. Instead,  he would only address whether the process 
of implementing  the changes had been fair to Mr S and whether the alternatives offered had 
been reasonable. Since Mr S had not accepted the new terms, the adjudicator thought  that 
this had amounted  to a request to close his account. Mr S had sold off all of the saleable 
loan parts before the deadline, and the bad loan parts had remained in his account, in 
accordance with the account closure  process.  So he didnt think a longer notice period had 
been necessary.  He thought Funding  Circle had offered  a reasonable solution to meet Mr 
Ss needs after 18 September, and it should not have to buy the bad loan parts from Mr S, or 
compensate him for any losses he may have incurred by not being able to reinvest his 
money elsewhere.
Mr S did not accept that decision. He reiterated  that he had not freely  chosen to close his 
account but had been compelled to. He didnt accept that his refusal to accept the new terms 
should mean that the contract could be treated as having come  to an end, and he had never  
wanted it to end. He argued that Funding Circle should have allowed him to continue to 
access the website  to manage  his existing loans until they ended. He maintained that it 
should also have  given him more  notice. He also said that the facility to sell loans at a 
premium had already  been removed by then.  He asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why. 
Although my reasons are broadly the same as our adjudicators, I have nevertheless formed 
my own opinion independently.
I accept that Mr S did not wish the contract to come to an end, and that he wanted to 
continue using Funding Circles website. In my view the contract was ended by Funding  
Circle, when it told him it was going to withdraw  a significant part of its service, a part which 
was clearly important to Mr S. Funding Circle gave Mr S the option  of entering a new 
contract, with new terms, in which it offered  to provide a different service to what  it had been 
providing him with up until then.  So Mr S had to decide what  to do, and the options available 
to him did not include continuing as if nothing was going to change. He had to either  agree 
to the new terms and conditions and go without  the ability  to make manual trades, or stop 
using the website altogether. There wasnt a third way. Once he indicated  that he would 
never agree to the new terms, Funding  Circle ended his access to its website with effect  
from 18 September.
Ref: DRN20241243It wasnt necessarily  inherently wrong  of Funding Circle to end the contract and, like our 
adjudicator, I think it is best if I leave  that question to the FCA. But right or wrong, I think that 
the termination of the contract could  potentially mean that it would  be fair and reasonable to 
require Funding  Circle  to compensate Mr S for any foreseeable  financial loss which  resulted  
 while  taking into account the measures  Funding  Circle offered to put in place to mitigate 
Mr Ss loss. I can also take into account  any inconvenience  it caused him if I think  it provided  
poor service.
However, I think that having decided to withdraw  the service  it formerly provided, Funding 
Circles actions in implementing  that decision were reasonable. It couldnt allow Mr S to carry 
on using its website if he didnt accept the new terms under which  it was continuing to do 
business, so there  had to come a time when it would stop him accessing the website. It did 
not charge selling fees during the period between announcing the change and carrying it 
out. Mr S was able to sell all of his loan parts (besides the bad ones) by the deadline. He 
had the opportunity to offer them for sale at the premium value, and it was his choice not to. 
I infer that he chose not to because he wanted  to ensure that they were all sold before 18 
September, but he didnt need to actually sell them by that date  he only had to list them for 
sale before  that date.  Funding Circle had said it would continue to pay funds to him after that 
date  he didnt  need to continue to access the website to obtain his money. So I dont think  
that Funding Circle prevented him from selling his loan parts  at a premium.
Of course,  if Mr S had tried to sell the loan parts at the premium  rate, then there was an 
increased risk that he might fail to sell them at that price. After  18 September he would no 
longer be able to offer them at a lower price, so I dont  criticise his decision to sell them at 
the normal rate. But I still dont think  that means that the deadline  caused  him a financial 
loss, because Funding Circle had not guaranteed that it would always  be possible to realise 
a sale at the premium  price (or at any other price). I have read the old terms and conditions  
which were in force before 18 September, and paragraph  14.1(g) says Funding Circle does 
not guarantee that loan parts listed for sale will be bought by other investors  Also,  that 
clause suggests  that it was not within the reasonable contemplation of both parties that 
Funding Circle would  be responsible for any loss of profits arising from a failure to benefit  
from mark-up  on the sale of loan parts using its website. Funding Circle would generally only 
be liable  for losses  which  were or should  have been  foreseeable. So I dont think that 
Funding Circle was obliged to give him a longer notice period.
Mr S argues  that his complaint is not just about  selling the loan parts he already had at the 
time, but also that hes been deprived of the opportunity to buy new ones and then sell those 
in the months  following  18 September 2017 (if Funding Circle had given more notice), at 
higher rates  than he could obtain elsewhere.  He has suggested that instead of four weeks  
notice, Funding Circle should  have  allowed  him six or twelve  months.
However, the old terms and conditions said (in paragraph 4.2) that Funding Circle had the 
right to change the interest rates at any time. So if Funding Circle had given more notice, but 
had also reduced  its interest  rates to levels  obtainable elsewhere, for example, then Mr S 
could not have complained that he had suffered a financial  loss. So I dont think  that Funding 
Circle should be liable for the loss of opportunity to make more profits after 18 September.
Therefore, for the above reasons, I am not satisfied on the balance  of probabilities that the 
withdrawal of access to Funding  Circles website  caused Mr S a loss of profits for which 
I could fairly  hold Funding Circle responsible.
Ref: DRN20241244Furthermore, it seems to me that Funding  Circle has offered a fair solution to Mr Ss 
problem. It has offered to send him monthly  statements, and an annual tax statement, and to 
withdraw his money  for him each month  at his request. I think  that Funding Circle has taken 
reasonable steps to alleviate Mr Ss inconvenience  and to help him manage his account. So 
I will not require it to do more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19March 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2024124