complaint
Miss B has complained  that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Very), has 
treated her unfairly in relation to her shopping catalogue account. She has complained about 
interest added  to her account with regards to a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) agreement. Miss 
B is also unhappy about the customer service she says she received.
background
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  in May 2021 that I summarise below. 
Miss B opened a shopping catalogue  account with Very in November 2016.
In January  2018  she ordered goods with a BNPL term of 80 weeks.  Miss B had to pay off the 
full cash price of these goods  within  the 80 weeks interest free credit  period, if she wanted to 
avoid deferred  BNPL interest being  added to her account.
In December 2018 Very informed Miss B on her statement that her BNPL period was coming  
to an end and to avoid interest  charges of around  £235 she needed to repay the full cash 
price of her goods by 18 January 2019.  The statement also said that a payment of just over
£162 was due by 21 December 2018,  in order to avoid an interest charge of around  £68 
being applied  to the account.
Miss B made  a payment of £80 to her account on 19 December and then a payment  of £250 
on 22 December. Very says these payments were  not targeted by Miss B towards  her BNPL 
balance, so she was charged £68 deferred BNPL interest.
On 4 January  2019 Miss B contacted Very to query why the payments she had made  had 
not been applied to her BNPL balance. She told Very she planned to make  further  payments 
in the next few days, but she was unhappy  about  the way BNPL  interest was being  charged.  
Verys agent told her that there has been  a mistake and that someone would call her back 
within 72 hours.
Miss B contacted Very on 16 January 2019  to ask why she had not been contacted  as 
promised, and to check that she would not be charged BNPL interest  on 18 January. She 
was told that her account had been  frozen until Verys internal investigation had been 
completed.
Miss B made further payments to her account  in January 2019, shortly before  the end of the 
BNPL period. These payments were  not allocated towards the BNPL balance and further 
interest was applied to her account.  Miss B complained to Very and eventually brought  her 
complaint to this Service.
K821x#15
Ref: DRN2993406Our adjudicator looked into the complaint. She thought it was reasonable for Very not to 
have allocated the payments Miss B made  in December 2018 to her BNPL  balance. But she 
thought that Very had acted unfairly towards Miss B when it didnt allocate the payments she 
made in January towards  reducing the BNPL balance. Our adjudicator asked  Very to put 
things right.
Very didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It said it did not believe there had been 
a business failing and it didnt agree to the adjudicators recommendation to recalculate  the 
BNPL delayed interest charges.
But Very did offer to refund the £233  interest charged to Miss Bs account in January 2019.  
Very said that it had made Miss B aware of how to avoid paying interest and how to make 
payments on her BNPL transactions. And that she could have opted for her payments to be 
applied to her BNPL  balance. Very said that in its terms and conditions consumers are made  
aware of how payments  that are received  on their accounts, but not targeted  to specific 
BNPL transactions, are allocated. Very also offered £40 compensation to Miss B for its 
customer service  failings.
Miss B did not accept  Verys offer. She thought  that Very should  refund the interest  charged 
to her account in January 2019  and it should also refund  any additional interest  applied  
beyond this point.  Miss B says, charging  interest on a fee which  should not have been 
applied does  not make  sense and that Very should  factor in payments  from when  the 
dispute was raised  to date. Miss B also thinks she should be awarded a higher level of 
compensation for having to pursue a lengthy  complaint process.
As the matter hadnt been settled,  it passed to me to decide. 
I explained the basis on which I would make my decision.
Miss Bs statements set out her BNPL summary, the balance still owing and that she can 
avoid  the interest  on these Buy Now Pay Later item(s)  by paying the balance by (date).  I 
looked at the terms and conditions of the account and the information that Miss B wouldve 
been provided with when  she opened her account.  I thought the information given about how 
the BNPL period  worked and how she could allocate payments to her BNPL orders could 
have been clearer  at the time. But overall, I thought  Very made Miss B aware that she had to 
repay her account within the BNLP period, if she wanted to avoid interest being added  to her 
account. I didnt  think that Very treated  Miss B unfairly when  it didnt allocate  the payments 
she made in December 2018 to her BNPL balance.
However, I did think that something  went wrong in January  2019.  Very says it is satisfied that 
BNPL interest was correctly applied to Miss Bs account in January 2019.  But its offer to 
refund BNPL interest of around £233 suggested to me that it also recognises that something 
went wrong.
Miss B contacted Very in early January  2019 to raise a query about the BNPL agreement. I 
thought Very was on notice from then that Miss B was somewhat unclear about how the 
BNPL process worked and that she very shortly intended to make future payments towards 
her BNPL  balance. Very had the opportunity  during its contact with Miss B to remind her how 
to correctly allocate payments towards her BNPL balance. But it didnt  do so and as a result, 
when Miss B made  further payments to Very in January 2019 of £257, shortly  before the end 
of the BNPL period, these payments were not applied to her BNPL  balance  and she was 
charged interest.
Ref: DRN2993406I thought Very was aware that Miss B intended  the payments she made  in January of £257 
to be allocated to her BNPL balance. I understood that had this payment been allocated to 
Miss Bs BNPL balance as she intended,  then it would have reduced the balance  to around
£315.
This would not have  fully cleared the BNPL balance but had Very reminded Miss B how to 
follow the correct  process  when she directly raised her query about BNPL, then this payment 
would have reduced the amount owing.  I didnt think Miss B was fully aware that a partial  
payment would still mean that all the interest accrued during the BNPL  period  would  be 
charged, if she did not pay the full balance due. Taking everything into account, I thought  
Very should fairly and reasonably have  allocated the payment Miss B made in January 2019 
to her BNPL balance. In the circumstances, I thought it then ought reasonably to have only 
charged her interest on the remaining portion of the BNPL balance.
Very accepted that it provided Miss B with incorrect information in January  2019 when its 
agent told her that her account would be frozen whilst it investigated  the query she had 
raised. Very confirmed that only administration charges are frozen when an account is in 
dispute. Very says that its advisor  could have  clearly  explained  that BNPL  interest  will still 
be applied  if insufficient  payments are received.
I thought Miss B was given misleading information  about her account by Very in January 
2019. By telling Miss B her account had been frozen, it gave her the expectation  that BNPL  
interest would  not be applied  to her account. Overall,  I didnt  think Very treated Miss B fairly  
in relation to the BNPL interest it charged to her account in January 2019.
Miss Bs complaint about customer service
Miss B is also unhappy that Very failed to contact her as it had promised, and she feels  she 
has suffered from poor customer service.  From what Id seen, Very did try to contact Miss B, 
but it has accepted that overall  there were shortcomings in its customer  service, and it 
offered her £40 compensation.  Miss B thinks  this is insufficient and that Very should  pay a 
higher amount because she says she has had to pursue a lengthy complaint  process,  and to 
discourage Very from treating its customers unfairly  in future.
I reflected on the role of this service.  I explained  that this service isnt intended to regulate  or 
punish businesses  for their conduct   that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Instead this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we ask the business to put 
things right by placing  the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position they would  have 
been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I said I understand why Miss B feels let down by the service she received from Very. But as I 
had explained,  it is not the role of this service to punish a business for its conduct. Very has 
apologised and offered £40 compensation to Miss B for its service  failings. I said I was not 
intending to ask Very to do anything  further in this regard.
However, I didnt think Very treated Miss B fairly when  it applied BNPL interest  to her 
account in January 2019. So, I said I was intending to uphold this part of Miss Bs complaint 
and that Very ought to put things  right.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence.
Ref: DRN2993406Ive not seen a response to my provisional findings  from either Very or Miss B. The deadline 
for providing  any further comments has now passed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank  both Miss B and Very for all the information they have provided  in this 
matter, all of which I have  considered when coming  to my final decision.
Given that Ive not received any further  evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm  the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision.
I dont think Very treated  Miss B fairly when it applied BNPL  interest to her account in 
January 2019.  I uphold  this part of Miss Bs complaint and Very must  put things right.
Putting things  right
Ive thought about what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Very has offered to simply refund the BNPL interest  it charged  in January 2019 but without 
recalculating Miss Bs account. Taking  everything into account,  I dont  think  this would be fair 
or reasonable, in the circumstances.
Very should:
Rework Miss Bs account to ensure that any interest that was charged on her BNPL 
account and flexible account,  reflects the repayment she made in January  2019 as 
having been allocated to her BNPL account,  as she had intended.
All other  charges that may have arisen  because that repayment wasnt  allocated  to 
the BNPL account as Miss B intended,  should also be removed.
If an outstanding  balance remains on any of the accounts once these adjustments  
have been made, Very should  contact Miss B to arrange a suitable  repayment plan. If 
Very considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Bs credit  file, it 
should backdate this to the appropriate date.
If no outstanding  balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then any 
extra should  be treated as overpayments  and returned to Miss B, along with 8% 
simple interest* on the overpayments from the date they were  made  until the date of 
settlement. Very should also remove any adverse information from Miss Bs credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Very to deduct tax from this interest.  Very should give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN2993406my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  this complaint and direct Shop Direct  Finance 
Company Limited  trading as Very to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2993406