K820x#14Complaint
Mr T is unhappy  that Lloyds Bank Plc have charged his bank account for a cash  withdrawal 
he says he didnt authorise.
Background
I issued a provisional decision in November 2019 to explain why I thought  Mr Ts complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to give me. This is 
an extract  from that provisional decision:
Mr T has said that he was driving  from the UK to Austria. He stopped for petrol in 
Germany, and entered the service  station building. Mr T intended to also take out 
cash for his trip. The ATM in service station  was a stand-alone machine. Mr T says 
this was located near to a caf, but that there  was no-one in close  vicinity to the 
machine.
Mr T inserted his card, entered his PIN and selected  a withdrawal amount of €300.  
He says the machine then gave him the option  to accept the commission charge. 
When he first spoke  to this service Mr T said that the machine display was in 
German.
Mr T says he was not willing to pay this commission, and pressed the red, 
cancellation button. The ATM  then ejected  his card and he returned  this to his 
wallet. Mr T says he remained by the machine for about  30 seconds, but that no cash 
was dispensed  and the machine didnt make  any noise.  Mr T then returned to his car 
and continued  his journey  to Austria. Mr T says he then withdrew €300 once he 
arrived in Austria.
After later checking his account, Mr T realised he had been  charged for the 
withdrawal in Germany. He complained to Lloyds  about this, disputing that he had 
authorised the transaction, and was issued with a temporary refund.
Lloyds then investigated his concerns, but based on information received from the 
ATM operator, Lloyds was satisfied  that funds were  dispensed. As such, Lloyds re-
debited the €300 from his account. Mr T wasnt happy with this and brought his 
complaint to this service.
Lloyds were able to provide us with some  useful information in relation to this 
complaint. This includes part of the journal roll from the ATM;  showing the actions 
around the time of the disputed transaction. They have  also provided brief contact  
notes showing when  Mr T spoke to them and Mr Ts account statements from 
September 2017 to May 2018.
Unfortunately, Lloyds didnt provide information  about the purge box for the ATM, or 
any other information confirming the cash in the machine matched the transactions it 
processed.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He felt that, as Lloyds had received 
evidence from the ATM operator to show the money  was dispensed, he didnt think 
Lloyds had acted  inappropriately  by debiting Mr Ts account. Mr T remained unhappy  
with outcome and his complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN24251392Since the investigators view, we have obtained some further information.
Mr T has another bank  account. This bank has confirmed that he withdrew €300 
around the date of the disputed transaction. This confirmation is in the form of Mr Ts 
statement, which shows the date of debit from the account as 25 September  2017.
The ATM operator in Germany has provided  information  about the purge box. This 
shows the purge box contained the same  amount  before and after the disputed 
transaction. They have also confirmed that if the ATM had reabsorbed the money, 
there would have been a difference in this amount.
I then went on to set out my provisional  findings  as follows:
Were the transactions authorised by the consumer?
Generally, unless the payment was authorised  by Mr T, Lloyds  has no authority  to 
debit his account.
In this particular  case, it isnt disputed that Mr T used his actual  bank card or that he 
entered his PIN into the ATM. It also isnt disputed that Mr T selected  the relevant  
amount to be dispensed.
The point of dispute arises around  whether Mr T completed the process to execute 
the transaction or not. He has said that upon  being shown the level of commission  he 
would have to pay, he cancelled the transaction before it was executed.
However, when first speaking to this service Mr T also said that the ATM display was 
in German, but that he was able to go through the process regardless. He has also 
said to us that he was largely acting on autopilot  during this.
Given the number  of times an average  person might make use of an ATM,  I dont find 
it difficult to imagine it would be possible to complete a transaction without paying  
particular attention to the prompts on screen   whether these be in English or 
otherwise. But this does increase the likelihood of mistakes being made.
I have also considered that, in my experience, the controls of some  ATMs  in other 
countries are set out differently to machines in England. This includes the red, 
cancellation button  being  above,  rather than below  the green, acceptance button. 
So it is possible Mr T accidentally pressed the wrong button.
It is also possible that, rather than being asked to confirm  he was willing to pay the 
commission, the question  Mr T was asked was whether he wanted  to pay the ATMs 
or Lloyds  exchange rate. And that instead of cancelling the entire  transaction,  Mr T 
merely selected one rather than the other by pressing the red, cancellation  button.
I also need to take into account  that it is reasonably unlikely that an ATM would 
complete a transaction of this nature unless the process behind it was completed 
also. Whilst this is a possibility, I think it more likely than not in this case  that Mr T 
made an error in the process and that he did not act to withdraw his authorisation to 
the transaction being executed.
Ref: DRN24251393As such,  on balance considering all the evidence, Im persuaded that Mr T authorised  
the transaction.
Should Mr T be liable  for the transaction?
Whilst, as above, I consider that Mr T most likely authorised the transaction Ive also 
considered whether it is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances that Lloyds debit 
this amount from his account.
Lloyds made  an investigation on the basis of a chargeback claim and were provided 
with a part of the journal  for the ATM. This apparently shows the relevant sum of 
money had been  successfully  paid out. The document is in German and uses  
payment codes for which no key has been  provided.  But the ATM operator has told 
us the relevant code: 
means that the transactions is ok and the amount can be paid out.
The Customer received  EUR 300.00 (6 Fifty-Euro-Notes) 
Mr T has said that he did not receive  this money.  He also said he remained by the 
ATM for some time and no money  was dispensed. However,  based  on what I have 
seen, I am satisfied that six €50 notes were presented  by the ATM.
What this does not confirm is whether  Mr T actually received this money.  I consider 
there to be three possibilities here;
1. the money  was retained by the ATM,
2. Mr T received the money,  or
3. a third party took the money.
The ATM operator has provided information  about the machines  purge  box. When 
cash is reabsorbed by an ATM the funds are deposited in a purge  box. ATMs are 
regularly balanced and this shows whether all of the cash  dispensed by the machine 
has been either taken  or retained and deposited  in the purge box.
The information provided by the ATM operator shows  that the balance  in the 
machines purge box remained the same before and after the transaction  in question.  
Based on this, I am satisfied that the funds were  not retained by the machine.
Mr Ts other  bank has confirmed that following this disputed transaction  Mr T 
withdrew €300. Given this, and Mr Ts general  circumstances,  I am persuaded by his 
testimony that he did not receive the funds from the ATM in Germany.
However, the final possibility is that a third party took the money. If this is what 
happened, I consider this would be something  Mr T would have to take responsibility 
for.
Mr T has described  the location of the ATM  and has confirmed that there were no 
other parties  in the nearby vicinity. Any funds presented by an ATM would 
reabsorbed within a reasonably short time. And Mr T has also said that he remained 
near the machine for some time.
Ref: DRN24251394However, given the persuasive evidence showing the funds were withdrawn from the 
ATM, coupled with the lack of persuasive  evidence  that Mr T himself took the money,  
there is no other logical  conclusion. I think it is more likely than not that, having 
believed he had cancelled  his transaction, Mr T did not remain  near the ATM for as 
long as he recalls. And that a third party  was able to take the funds prior to them 
being reabsorbed. 
Whilst I have every  sympathy for Mr T in this situation,  I am unable to conclude  that it 
would not be fair or reasonable for Lloyds to hold him liable for this money and debit 
it from his account.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds confirmed they had received my provisional  decision, but they didnt add any 
comments. 
Mr T did respond. He expressed concerns that my findings had called into question  his 
intelligence, and reaffirmed that he had not pressed the wrong button on the ATM. He felt 
that, having pressed this, he was unhappy that the machine had dispensed  the money and 
left it available  for a third party  to take.  Mr T was also adamant  that he had remained by the 
ATM for the length of time he had said he did. And feels that a fourth  possibility, that the 
ATM malfunctioned, should be considered. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive taken into account  Mr Ts 
comments. 
I am sorry  if Mr T feels that I made inferences  about his intelligence. I can assure  him that 
this is not the intention  of my decision.  But it is a simple fact that people can make mistakes,  
regardless of their faculties. It is also, in my opinion,  more likely that mistakes are made  
where someone is performing a routine task. 
I would also like to reassure Mr T that I have already considered the possibility that the ATM  
itself did not operate correctly. But as my provisional  findings  stated:
it is reasonably unlikely  that an ATM would complete  a transaction of this nature 
unless the process  behind  it was completed  also. Whilst this is a possibility, I think it 
more likely than not in this case that Mr T made  an error in the process
Whilst I take note of Mr Ts comments, and his conviction that no error was made, the 
circumstances of the case do not persuade me to change my findings in this case. 
Ref: DRN24251395My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2425139