K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about Canada Life Limited (Canada  Life). Hes unhappy Canada Life wont 
allow him to cash in his annuity policy or agree to increase his annuity  payments.
background
In May 2009  Mr M purchased an annuity  with Canada Life. At the time hed lost his job due 
to severe illness  and was unable  to work  any further.
In October  2018 Mr M contacted Canada Life about  his annuity. He said that while  he 
acknowledged his annuity had no cash in value he hoped Canada Life would make an 
exception and convert his annuity to a cash lump  sum. Mr M explained his health had 
deteriorated, hed recently had major surgery and that his wife had given up work to take 
care of him. 
Canada Life responded to Mr M and said it was unable to agree to him cashing in his 
annuity. 
Mr M later complained. He explained  to Canada Life that because of his circumstances hed 
been reliant on a Personal Independence Payment (PIP), Employment and Support 
Allowance (ESA) and his annuity for income. Concerned  about  his ESA stopping when he 
reached 65 years old Mr M said it would help him if Canada Life to allow  him to cash  in his 
annuity or increase the amount he received monthly  from it.
Canada Life turned down Mr Ms request again  and in summary said:
Mr Ms annuity was set up for the purposes of paying an income which  couldnt  be 
cancelled, exchanged for a lump sum payment or other benefits
the Lifetime Annuity Personal Example  issued with Mr Ms policy documentation 
included the warning that his annuity  had no cash in value 
although some providers allowed annuity  policies to be cashed in for a lump  sum this 
was at the discretion of the annuity provider. And Canada  Life had made the 
business decision not to allow this option
Unhappy with Canada  Lifes  response Mr M referred his complaint  to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said she didnt think 
Canada Life had done anything wrong or that it could be required to allow  Mr M to cash  in 
his annuity.
Mr M disagreed and so the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why, but before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive 
taken note of the correspondence, arguments  and comments made by both parties,  I have 
limited my response to what  I consider  to be the issues  central to this complaint.
Ref: DRN29377922I should firstly say I have  real sympathy  for Mr M. From his submissions to this service and 
Canada Life its clear  to me Mr M is in a difficult situation and that he isnt making his request 
to cash in his annuity  lightly. 
As Mr M has explained,  his personal  circumstances are particularly challenging and this in 
turn makes  his financial position hard and oftentimes very stressful. Because of this I can 
understand why Mr M feels  it would  be of real benefit receiving his annuity as a one off cash 
lump sum. As Mr M says, itd improve his quality  of life and make  things more  comfortable.
Im very sorry to learn of what Mr M and his wife are dealing with. But despite my sympathy  I 
have to consider  is whether Canada Life is acting  unreasonably in the circumstances, when 
it says it wont permit  Mr M to convert  his annuity  to cash.
Ive carefully reviewed the documentation Mr M was provided with and the terms of his 
annuity and Im satisfied  that it was made clear that the purpose  of his annuity  was to 
provide him with an income for life and not something that could be cashed  in at a later date.
Specifically the Lifetime Annuity Personal  Example issued to Mr M said:
Important  information         WARNING- this policy has no cash in value at any time ()
The Key Features document Mr M was provided  with also said:
Your commitment
You decide that the value of your registered  pension scheme  will be paid into the 
policy. You cannot change your mind ()
Risk factors ()
Once your policy is set up, you cannot  change it or cash  it in, even if your 
circumstances change.
And the Policy provisions  for Mr Ms annuity  said:
Assignment, commutation  or surrender
Neither this policy, nor the benefits provided under it, may be assigned, commuted or 
surrendered ().
Overall while  I appreciate what Mr M would like Canada Life to do regarding  his annuity Im 
unable to conclude  that Canada Life has done  anything wrong by not allowing him to cash in 
his annuity.
Although current legislation and HMRC rules  allow (subject to certain conditions being  met) 
an annuity in payment  to be converted into a cash lump sum, Canada  Life isnt under any 
obligation to do this. As Canada Life has said it has taken  a decision not to allow annuities to 
be converted to lump  sums. And as has already been explained, that is Canada  Lifes 
discretion. It isnt for me to interfere with its decision in this regard. 
In saying that, I have  taken into account  Mr Ms very difficult  personal circumstances. But 
while I have every sympathy for him I dont  see that there is any basis on which I can direct  
Ref: DRN29377923Canada Life to take a different approach in his particular case  either to cash in Mr Ms 
annuity or increase his monthly  payments. 
I realise that this will be very disappointing  for Mr M. And I do understand that it is probably 
particularly frustrating that what he seeks appears  to be permitted under the rules. But there  
is nothing which compels Canada Life to allow him to convert his annuity to a cash  lump 
sum.
I dont doubt Mr Ms strength of feeling  or sincerity in referring his complaint to our service. 
But for the reasons Ive explained  Im unable to uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2937792