K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about the transfer of his three pension plans from Barclays  Life to ReAssure. 
He complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) carried  out the transfer without his consent. 
Mr L also complains that his bank account  details were provided by Barclays to ReAssure 
without his consent. 
background
Mr L took out three pension plans with Barclays Life. In 2008  Barclays Life was acquired by 
Admin Re UK Limited (Admin Re). In November 2011 Barclays Life business was 
transferred to Windsor  Life. In December 2011 Windsor Life changed its name  to ReAssure 
Limited (ReAssure).
In 2019 Mr L complained  to the business.  He complained that the transfer had taken place  
without his consent. He felt there  had been a breach of data protection as his bank details 
had been provided to ReAssure so it could collect his direct debit. Mr L asked for a copy  of 
the court order approving the transfer and questioned why Barclays couldnt have kept his 
pension plans as it still had other  pensions.
Barclays didnt uphold  his complaint. It said Barclays Life has not been part of the Barclays 
Group since 2008, when it was bought  by Admin  Re. It continued  to use the Barclays Life 
name until 2011 when the High Court gave approval for the Barclays Life policies to be 
transferred over to Windsor Life.
Barclays said the transfer of business didnt require individual  consent  from the plan holders 
but it did require  approval by the High Court. It said plan holders had the option to object at 
the High Court hearing all of which had been set out in a mailing sent out to all plan holders  
in September  2011. 
Barclays said as the correspondence sent to Mr L hadnt been returned it had assumed it 
had been received. It noted Mr L had confirmed  the relevant address at that time had been  a 
close relatives who had since sadly passed away. Mr L had said to Barclays  that although 
he hadnt lived at that address since 2009  he had had regular  access to the property to 
collect mail. Mr L had changed  his address to his current address in 2014.
Barclays didnt agree that there had been a breach of data protection.  Barclays  said the 
transfer of Mr Ls data between the companies  would have occurred in accordance with the 
regulations laid out by the Act and would have included his original direct  debt instruction.
Barclays said it was unable to provide  a copy of the court order  as this was a confidential 
document. It also said it was not able to transfer  different types  of policies between different 
parts of the business.
Mr L disagreed and referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  but didnt feel it should be upheld. She said that 
Barclays had made  a business decision to transfer the types  of plan that Mr L held to 
ReAssure. So, she said it wasnt the role of this service to assess  whether that commercial 
decision was fair or not. That was the role of the financial regulator (FCA).
Ref: DRN28993552The investigator said that neither Barclays nor ReAssure had copies of the original letters  
sent to Mr L. She didnt  think that was unreasonable given the number of years that had 
passed. 
The investigator said she understood that Mr L was unhappy that ReAssure was given his 
bank details by Barclays during the transfer but the investigator considered this was normal  
practice. She said the transfer of many accounts  is a disruption for both the businesses 
involved and its customers.  The investigator  thought it was reasonable to expect all 
information would be transferred over so the pensions  could continue as they were and to 
minimise disruption for customers.  If new direct  debit details were requested it may have 
delayed setting up accounts and had a detrimental  financial impact on plan holders.
The investigator said she hadnt seen any evidence to show that the transfer had led to a 
breach of Mr Ls privacy  or data protection rules,  so she believed  that the transfer was 
carried out in line with the guidance.
She noted Barclays had told Mr L that he couldnt  have a copy  of the court order approving 
the transfer scheme. She said customers werent  entitled to see confidential details  
regarding arrangements with other firms and so she couldnt instruct Barclays to give out 
that information. 
As no agreement could be reached  Mr Ls complaint  was referred to me for review.
We asked Barclays and ReAssure for some  further  information. Letters  sent out to plan 
holders in September 2011 and December 2011 were  provided to Mr L. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I should also make it clear that this 
complaint is about  Barclays so I wont be considering any complaints Mr L may have made  
about any other business in this decision.
In 2008 Barclays  Life business, which included pension plans, was acquired by Admin Re. In 
2011 this business was transferred to Windsor Life who then changed its name  to Reassure. 
The crux of Mr Ls complaint against  Barclays is that he is unhappy that the transfer took 
place without his consent and that his bank details  were  provided to a third party,  namely 
ReAssure.
The transfer of Mr Ls pension plans 
I appreciate Mr L is unhappy  that his pension plans were transferred to another provider 
without his consent. But these type of transfers; of numerous plans administered  by one 
business, to another business  dont  require each plan holders consent. However, there  is a 
process (under The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000) to protect the interests of 
those plan holders.  
A transfer  of business of this type requires the approval of a High Court Judge  and it 
involves the financial  regulator; which at the time was the Financial Services  Authority (FSA).
Ref: DRN28993553I am satisfied that in September  2011 Barclays wrote to the affected plan holders, including  
Mr L, to inform them that a transfer of business  was proposed and that it was due to be 
considered in the High Court. Enclosed with this letter  was a document entitled Your  
questions answered  which  set out details  of what was proposed and the impact on plan 
holders. 
Mr L has said he didnt receive this document. It appears that may have been because  he 
wasnt living  at the address  recorded  for his plans at the time. Although Mr L has said he had 
regular access to that address to collect post.
 
Mr L didnt change his address details  to his current address (at the time of complaint) until 
2014. So Im satisfied on balance that Barclays sent correspondence about this plans to the 
most up to date address on its records. No correspondence was sent back  to Barclays so 
there was nothing to suggest it wasnt being received. 
Given the time that has passed I dont think it is unreasonable that Barclays  doesnt have 
copies of the original  letters sent to Mr L. We have been provided with the standard  part of 
the letters sent to all plan holders. Overall I think it likely on balance that those letters were 
sent to Mr L. 
Mr L has said those letters (particularly the September  2011  letter) should have been sent by 
recorded delivery given how important they were. But I think  sending  it to the most up to date 
address on the plan holders record was sufficient, particularly given the large number of 
people involved.  In addition as no letters were  returned  for Mr L there  was nothing to indicate 
Barclays should consider other postal options.  
So Im satisfied that Barclays made reasonable attempts to inform  Mr L of the impending 
transfer of business from Barclays Life to ReAssure.  
If Mr L had seen that letter he would have been  made aware that he had the option to object 
to the transfer.  The letter said:
How are your Interests  being protected?
The approval process provides a comprehensive set of safeguards to your interests.
As part of this process:
 The Boards of Directors of both companies have  reviewed  the proposals  and have 
approved that they be taken forward through this process;
 Both companies  have  consulted closely with our regulator, the Financial Services  Authority 
(FSA);
 The FSA has approved  the appointment of an Independent Expert to review the impact of 
the transfer on policyholders. The Independent  Expert has concluded that the interests of all 
policyholders will be appropriately  protected, and that policyholders  will continue  to enjoy a 
satisfactory level of security with Windsor  Life. A summary of his Scheme Report is in the 
booklet included  with this letter.
Ref: DRN28993554 The High Court must approve the transfer.  The Court  will consider whether  the transfer will 
adversely affect  policyholders and whether it is appropriate to allow  this transfer. You have a 
right to attend the Court hearing that will consider the transfer  and to present any objections  
that you may have.  Alternatively, we will present  in writing  any objections we receive to the 
Court. We expect the Court hearing  to take place  on 18 November 2011 at the High Court in 
the Strand, London, WC2A 2LL.
So I am satisfied that there was a proper  process  in place and plan holders  had the 
opportunity to object  to the transfer  scheme.
 
In any event I consider  even if Mr L had seen that letter it is unlikely that this would have 
affected the eventual outcome which was the transfer of his three  pension  plans from 
Barclays Life to ReAssure.
A further  letter was sent in December 2011 to inform plan holders that the transfer scheme 
had been approved.  In the enclosed Your  questions  answered document it explained what 
would happen  to premium payments. It said:
Q.          How will this affect my premium payments?
A.        The  only change  you will notice is that with effect from the 1 December 2011, 
ReAssure will collect your Direct Debits  instead  of Barclays Life and therefore ReAssure will 
appear on your bank/building  society statement.
Additionally you will also see a comment on your bank  statement advising you of the first 
payment under the new name.
The good  news  is that there  is no need  for you to complete a new Direct Debit Instruction, as 
details of the change will have been  supplied to your bank, who may also notify  you 
independently.
You will continue to enjoy  the benefits of the Direct  Debit Guarantee as detailed overleaf.
I understand that Mr L is disappointed with the transfer and he feels  he cannot  trust the 
financial services industry. But I consider the decision  by Barclays  to transfer  its pensions  
business to ReAssure was a legitimate exercise of its commercial  judgement.  I am satisfied  
there were safeguards  in place and the transaction was approved by the High Court.
In any event, plan holders  shouldnt have been  adversely  affected  by the transfer  as it was 
agreed that the terms and conditions of their plans would remain  unchanged.
In the enclosed document with the September letter under the title Will my policy  be 
affected? it said:
If the proposals are approved then there will be no changes to the premiums, benefits, and 
terms and conditions of any Barclays Life policies. The main change you will see is that the 
Barclays Life brand will be replaced  by the ReAssure brand. We are not making  any 
changes to how your policy is administered as part of the proposed  transfer to Windsor  Life.
Ref: DRN28993555Then in the document enclosed with the December  2011 letter under the question  Will my 
policy be affected?  it said:
There will be no change  to the administration of your policy  as a result  of the transfer  or 
name change. The main  difference  you'll  notice is that we'll start writing to you as ReAssure 
from 1 December 2011.
Disclosure of bank details
Mr L complains  that the disclosure of his bank details to ReAssure amounts to a breach of 
data protection  law because it happened without his consent. 
Mr Ls direct  debit details were provided  to ReAssure so that it could collect his premiums 
and administer his pension plans. The relevant law in place at the time was the Data  
Protection Act 1998. It stated that the processing of personal data must be fair and lawful. It 
also said that personal data should be obtained  only for certain specified purposes and it 
should not be further processed in any manner incompatible with that purpose or those 
purposes.
It sets out a number  of potential circumstances when processing of personal  data would be 
justified. These included where  it was necessary for the performance of a contract to which 
the data subject was a party, and where  it was necessary for the purposes of legitimate 
interests pursued by the data controller or by the third party or parties to whom  the data are 
disclosed, except  where  the processing was unwarranted in any particular case  by reason of 
prejudice to the rights  and freedoms or legitimate interests of the data subject.
Mr Ls direct  debit details were collected  by Barclays as part of a contract where he agreed 
to pay premiums in exchange  for benefits to be provided by his pension plans. So although  a 
different company was administering those plans,  the purpose  for using that personal  data 
remained the same and those details were  necessary to fulfil the contract.
 
In addition Im satisfied that when the pension plans were transferred  to ReAssure the rights 
to administer them would have also been  transferred  and that would necessarily have 
included the right to collect  the premiums. 
If it had been otherwise  then the collection of premiums  was likely to have been  delayed 
which could have had a detrimental financial impact  on Mr L. In addition asking customers to 
set up a new direct debit is likely to have made them expend time and effort and would  
potentially have been inconvenient.
 
I have not seen anything to suggest  that bank details were used other than for this purpose.  
So overall I dont  consider  on balance that Barclays did anything wrong.
Request for court order
I note that Mr L has asked for a copy of the court order approving the transfer.  The business 
has said this is a confidential document. 
Ref: DRN28993556The transfer of business took place a number of years  ago and was fairly widely  reported  at 
the time including  on the websites of both companies involved. In addition Barclays  has 
provided the correspondence  sent to plan holders before  and after the transfer.  A transfer  of 
this type wouldve had to have approval  to take place.  So overall Im not convinced  on 
balance that it is necessary  to provide the court order in order  to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ls complaint against  Barclays Bank UK PLC is not upheld for the 
reasons outlined in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2899355