K822xcomplaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about the time taken to transfer  his self-invested personal (SIPP) from
his existing provider  to a new SIPP provider and the delay in accessing his pension  benefits,
in particular his pension commencement  lump  sum (PCLS). Mr Ws SIPP held a commercial  
property which was subject to a mortgage  with Lloyds Bank Plc. 
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 21 April 2020. Ive attached it and it forms part of this 
decision. Essentially  I said Lloyds offer of £6,115  was fair and reasonable for the reasons I 
set out. But I said Lloyds should  also pay Mr W an extra £1,000  as compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.  
Lloyds accepted that  it had earlier offered £1,000 for distress and inconvenience and it 
also remained agreeable to the payment of £6,115 based on three months interest at 8% on 
the PCLS.
Mr W asked me to reconsider. He confirmed  his property purchase  was already underway by 
the time he needed  to tell his existing  SIPP  provider  if he didnt consent to the transfer to the 
new provider. But the point wasnt that he had time to make other arrangements. There  
wouldnt have been a problem if the transfer had been completed within a reasonable time, 
even allowing for some delay. 
Mr W explained that he didnt know what the build costs for the new house would be. 
Various site tests were undertaken and a quantity  surveyor had been appointed to cost the 
build options.  Mr W requested the PCLS at the end of January 2016 as he wanted to submit  
a planning application, detailing the house  size and construction. The amount of money 
available directly impacted on that and the timing of the planning application. Mr W needed 
the PCLS to help fund the project. He needed to know how much  he had to spend  so the 
planning application was delayed until June 2016. Hed been told then by all parties  that hed 
get the PCLS in September 2016. 
Focusing on a claim for interest for late payment Mr W calculated he should have received a 
PCLS of £300,468.83 on 31 March 2016 (thats  after making an allowance  for the increase in 
value he gained because  the fund stayed  invested).  Interest at 8% (£24,037.48  a year or 
£2,003.12 a month) meant total interest of £22,725  was due. Taking  into account the 
investment gain and the compensation Id suggested left a shortfall of £13,997.83 plus 
distress and inconvenience. There was a long delay, responsibility for which should be met 
between the parties  involved. 
He added that the situation wasnt of his making  - it was due to his existing SIPP provider 
withdrawing from the SIPP market. Being given the chance to opt out was only slightly better 
than given no choice  at all. If hed been asked to opt in then that would have given a clear 
message that he understood  and accepted  the implications. Opting out required a lot of 
knowledge about a specialist area. 
Id said that SIPP providers werent expected to second guess a mortgagees  requirements, 
but it was entirely  reasonable to expect them to have adequate knowledge of the processes 
involved and not assume that novation would be acceptable to a lender  and that the lender 
would consent  to novating the loan. That demonstrated inadequate knowledge of their 
specialist fields. 
Ref: DRN26308912The information provided did say the transfer  could take some time and that requesting a 
PCLS after the transfer process had started would  delay  the transfer. But that was vague. It 
could be assumed the delay might be anything from a few days to a few weeks. Mr W had 
applied for the PCLS in January 2016  expecting to receive it by the end of March  2016. His 
existing SIPP provider  had said it usually quoted  a timescale of between one and six 
months. Instead the transfer had taken  about  seventeen months.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered in my (attached) provisional  decision the impact of the delayed  payment of the 
PCLS on Mr Ws building project. Essentially I said planning permission had been applied for 
in June 2016 and granted  in September 2016. But work hadnt commenced until late 
November 2017.  So it seemed his building project  hadnt been delayed by the fact that the 
PCLS (or the bulk of it at least) wasnt paid until January 2017.
It seems  from what Mr W has more recently  said that he wanted  the certainty and security of 
the PCLS actually  having been  paid before deciding on the final design and build options 
and the costs before submitting a planning  application. I can understand why Mr W may 
have perhaps felt more  comfortable in waiting until the PCLS  had been paid or was, so he 
was told, fairly imminent. But I think that was his decision. Building costs are generally only 
estimates. I think  Mr W would have  known, as far as possible, the expected cost of the 
various options. And he knew  what his PCLS was likely to be, or he could have asked for an 
up to date estimate. I dont think it would  be reasonable to say the fact that the PCLS hadnt 
actually been  paid stopped him moving  forward with his building project when he knew the 
amount of the PCLS that was available  and which would  be paid eventually. 
Mr Ws suggested, rather than looking at whether he suffered extra expense because  his 
building project  was delayed, we should  look at a claim for interest at 8% on the basis  he 
was kept out of his PCLS.  
Ive also considered Mr Ws interest  calculations. But they are based  on the assumption that 
he applied  for his PCLS in January 2016  and it had been paid in March 2016.  I dont think 
that sort of timescale, given the commercial property held in the SIPP,  was realistic. So I 
cant agree  with Mr W is entitled to interest  for delayed payment from March  2016. 
As Ive acknowledged there was a considerable delay in completing the transfer.  But 
sometimes a transaction  will turn out to be particularly complex and take more time than 
could have been anticipated. But that wont always mean that one or more of the parties 
involved must have been  at fault.  Or that all of the delays could have been avoided.  Its also 
the case that Mr Ws fund remained invested  throughout and so, as hes acknowledged, he 
benefited from investment  growth  throughout the period of the delay. 
I dont think Lloyds dealt  with the matter  as well or as quickly as it could have  done.  But I 
think whats been offered,  based  on three  months  interest, plus a further £1,000  for distress 
and inconvenience,  is fair and reasonable. So Im not going  to say that Lloyds should pay 
more. 
Ref: DRN26308913my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Lloyds Bank  Plc must pay Mr W £6,115 as compensation for financial 
loss plus a further £1,000  for distress  and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.  
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26308914PROVISIONAL DECISION dated 21 April 2020
complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about  the time taken to transfer his self-invested personal  (SIPP) from his existing 
provider to a new SIPP provider and the delay in accessing his pension benefits, in particular  his 
pension commencement lump sum (PCLS).  Mr Ws SIPP  held a commercial  property which was 
subject to a mortgage with Lloyds Bank Plc. 
background
Mr Ws existing SIPP provider wrote to its SIPP  customers  in July 2015 to tell them  its third party  SIPP 
administrator had decided to withdraw from the SIPP  market.  Mr Ws SIPP provider  had decided not 
to find another  third party administrator. If the value of the self invested assets held in the SIPP was 
over £1,000 theyd be transferred to a new SIPP  with a new SIPP provider. The insured funds could  
stay with the existing provider (unless  their value was less than £1,000). 
Customers who agreed to the transfer didnt have to do anything. Those who wanted to opt out 
needed to tell the existing  provider by 28 September 2015. If it didnt hear by then it would go ahead  
and begin the transfer of the self invested assets to the new provider in October 2015.  
The information provided said the transfer could take some time.  And, if a PCLS  was requested, that 
might delay matters.  A property transfer guide was supplied. Amongst  other things, it explained  the 
outgoing administrator and the new SIPP provider had agreed a streamlined process  for property 
transfers. Solicitors would be jointly instructed.  If there was a mortgage in place, a novation 
agreement would be used,  where possible, to transfer the existing mortgage to the new SIPP  
provider. 
Mr W didnt  opt out. As Ive said his SIPP contained a commercial property so that had to be 
transferred to the new SIPP.  The property was subject to a mortgage with Lloyds. In November  2015 
the outgoing administrator asked Lloyds  to commence the novation process  of the loan. Unfortunately 
the re-registration of the loan to the new SIPP  provider was protracted  and this delayed the transfer of 
the commercial property  to the new provider.   
Towards the end of January 2016 Mr W wanted his PCLS to be paid. The new SIPP provider  paid Mr 
W the first tranche  of his PCLS £249,081 in January 2017. The property transfer and new loan 
completed in March 2017.  The new SIPP provider  paid the balance of the PCLS on 16 August 2017.  
By then Mr W had complained about the time it was taking to complete the SIPP transfer.
Lloyds wrote to him on 22 June 2017, acknowledging the delays. Lloyds said it was first contacted in 
late November 2015 about the transfer. The transfer  wasnt  straightforward and the procedure was 
complex. There were delays in receiving the original loan information. 
Lloyds apologised and offered £1,000 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused.  Lloyds later 
increased its offer to £6,115. This offer was based on 8% interest on £300,000  for 93 days  delay.
The adjudicator upheld the complaint. He didnt think Lloyds had taken  sufficient account of the 
substantial inconvenience Mr W had suffered because it had taken almost 17 months to transfer the 
property. He thought Lloyds could have managed Mr Ws expectations better. The adjudicator 
suggested Lloyds should pay Mr W additional compensation of £500.
Lloyds didnt accept the adjudicators view. Lloyds  said Mr W had rejected the initial  offer for distress 
and inconvenience of £1,000. In his discussions with Lloyds Mr W brought up the delay  which was 
acknowledged and the interest offered was in settlement of the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Mr W also remained unhappy. He said the whole thing caused him and his wife considerable distress.  
In November 2015 theyd  purchased an old bungalow, intending to demolish it and build a new house. 
Ref: DRN26308915The majority of the build  cost was to be paid for by the PCLS  which Mr W applied  for in January 2016. 
He was unable to access the major part of it until late January 2017.  He couldnt start the work until 
after then and so there was a delay in completing  the build. Mr W said he could have received a 
monthly rental income of £4,000 for the new house and because of the delay hed incurred a loss of 
£30,800. 
He later said the delay meant he couldnt move into the property as soon  as hed planned and so he 
and his wife had to stay in rental accommodation longer  than theyd budgeted  for at a total extra cost 
of £17,000. 
Mr W said his understanding was that if someone was unable to access money that was his, he 
should get interest at 8% above Bank of England base rate. Mr W said hed asked for his PCLS  
(about £305,000)  on 26 January 2016. Hed been  paid £249,081 on 12 January  2017,  352 days after 
hed applied.  And a further £54,000 on 16 August 2017, 568 days after applying. It shouldnt take 
more than 28 days to access his money. Allowing for that and applying interest at 8.5% was 
£18,793.67 on the first payment and £6,790.68 on the second, in total £25,584.35.
Mr W has said hed settle for £25,584.35 for not having access  to his money and a further £17,000 for 
the extra  rent hed had to pay. He said he wasnt qualified on how that should  be apportioned  
between the parties hed complained about.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I sympathise with Mr W that, following  his existing providers decision to withdraw from this sector of 
the market, Mr W had to transfer his SIPP to a new provider. Mr W didnt instigate the transfer and the 
timing was particularly inconvenient for him given his property purchase and his need to access  his 
PCLS to fund his building project.  
A further issue is that, although the whole process was instigated by Mr Ws existing provider,  a 
number of other parties were involved in the transfer.  Mr W has complained not just about  Lloyds but 
also about his existing and new SIPP  providers. Weve dealt with those  complaints under  separate  
references. But weve considered all three complaints together. 
Mr W is also critical of the solicitors acting  for Lloyds  and the existing SIPP provider. The solicitors  
arent strictly within our jurisdiction but Ive treated them as agents  for the parties  they were  acting for. 
I havent looked  separately at the solicitors part in the matter. 
I dont think theres any dispute that the transfer took much longer  than Mr W or any of the other 
parties involved  anticipated. I accept the transfer wasnt straightforward. The SIPP  held a commercial  
property subject to a loan. I think it was always likely that would cause some issues.  At the outset a 
relatively simple loan novation  was anticipated. But it seems that wasnt possible and a new loan 
agreement had to be set up. 
Lloyds didnt appear to realise that until sometime after the transfer had begun - Lloyds didnt  tell the 
new SIPP provider until 28 April 2016, some six months after the process  had started, that the 
existing loan would need  to be discharged and a fresh loan agreement entered  into. 
From what Ive seen, there  were delays on Lloyds  part throughout the process. On several occasions 
Lloyds failed to revert  promptly, or within the timescale promised, to other parties  involved with 
updates or revised  or new documentation. Lloyds also requested information it already held and failed  
to manage expectations by indicating, more than once, that the process  was nearing  completion  when 
that wasnt the case. 
Lloyds accepts there were  shortcomings  in how it handled things. Lloyds has made an offer.  So Ive 
concentrated on whether  that offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN26308916Mr Ws claim centres on the delay in paying his PCLS. Hed earmarked that for a building  project  
which was in turn delayed and meant that he lost rental income or had to pay extra rent. Lloyds wasnt 
responsible for paying  Mr Ws PCLS. That was down to Mr Ws SIPP provider. Ive dealt elsewhere 
with how his existing and new SIPP providers  dealt with the payment of Mr Ws PCLS.  
But I recognise that delay on Lloyds  part would have a knock  on effect  and delay the process 
overall, including the payment of Mr Ws PCLS.  I think Lloyds recognised that, hence its (revised) 
offer to make  a payment  to Mr W of about three months interest on £300,000 (roughly  the amount  of 
his PCLS). 
Mr Ws claim for interest  is for more than that. First, hes used a higher rate of interest - 8.5% pa. 
Thats bank base rate (say 0.5% throughout the period in question) plus 8% which is the rate used by 
the courts  for judgment debts. But if we award  interest for late payment we generally just use 8%. We 
might use bank base rate in certain circumstances instead  but we wouldnt  generally use a 
combination. And 8% is the rate used by Lloyds  in making its offer of £6,115 to Mr W. 
Secondly, Mr Ws claim is for a longer period than three months late payment. Ive looked  into what  
happened with Mr Ws building project  and if the late payment of his PCLS  delayed things.  I 
understand he bought the property in about November 2015. But I dont think  he applied for planning  
permission (to demolish  the existing property and build a replacement dwelling)  until June  2016. 
Planning permission  was granted in mid September 2016.  That meant he wouldnt have been in a 
position to start the work  until then. So I cant see the non payment of his PCLS impacted on his 
building project up until then at least. 
But In September 2016  when he was in a position to proceed  he didnt  have the funds. His PCLS  
(or the bulk of it at least) wasnt paid until January  2017. So I can see the argument that the work was 
delayed for some three months or so because of the unavailability of the PCLS. And that the whole 
project was put back by some three months. Id assume that featured in the rationale for Lloyds 
offering a payment  equivalent  to three months interest. 
But, as to whether there was any further delay, the work doesnt appear to have started  in January  
2017 or anytime soon thereafter. The development commencement date was 27 November 2017,  ten 
months after the first payment had been made in January 2017 and three months after the PCLS  had 
been paid in full. So it seems the project wasnt at that stage  delayed due to a lack of funds. Building 
works are frequently delayed for a variety of reasons, including planning  issues, availability of 
contractors or weather considerations. I dont think it would be fair to say Lloyds  should pay further 
interest when  it appears the further  delays  were due to other factors  and not the unavailability of 
funds. 
Mr Ws also mentioned lost rental income. But it seems that he didnt  let the property  and he and his 
wife now live there.  Instead hes claimed for extra rent he had to pay due to delay in completing the 
build and moving  in later than hed otherwise  have done.  But if he gets interest for the period of delay 
as compensation I dont  see that hes entitled to additional rental payments too. And paying him a 
sum equivalent to about three months rent would give him less compensation. 
The adjudicator thought Lloyds should pay an extra £500 on top of the sum offered. Lloyds  didnt 
agree on the basis that what has been offered is for distress  and inconvenience. But I think the sum 
offered - £6,115  should more properly  be regarded as an offer in respect of financial loss. 
When we make an order for interest  for being  kept out of money  that isnt a distress  and 
inconvenience payment  but a monetary award. And Ive looked at the offer above, and whether  it was 
adequate or not, on the basis that Mr W has suffered  financial loss because of the overall  time added 
to the transfer process as a result of delays  on Lloyds part. I found  that he had but that the offer 
made was fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN26308917Against that background I think a further payment for distress and inconvenience is warranted. I note 
that Lloyds initially suggested £1,000. So Im going to say that Lloyds should  pay that, in addition  to 
the £6,115 it has offered.  Thats more than I might usually  award. And more  than the adjudicator 
suggested. But it is the figure  Lloyds  itself put on the distress and inconvenience Mr W had suffered, 
albeit that was the total amount it was then prepared to pay. I think its within  the range  that might be 
awarded in a situation such as this. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. Lloyds Bank Plc should pay Mr W £6,115 as compensation  for financial  losses 
plus a further £1,000 for distress and inconvenience hes suffered as a result of Lloyds Bank Plcs 
poor handing of this matter.  
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2630891