K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs K has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly 
continued to apply interest,  fees and charges to their overdraft when they were in financial 
difficulty.
Background 
Mr and Mrs K complained about Halifaxs changes to its pricing overdraft pricing structure 
and said this led to them experiencing financial  difficulty. One of our adjudicators looked at 
this complaint and thought that Halifax hadnt  treated them  fairly and reasonably and needed  
to rework Mr and Mrs Ks account to remove the effect of all the interest  fees and charges 
added to their overdraft from the point that it was renewed in July 2017. 
Halifax accepted  our adjudicators view and worked out that Mr and Mrs Ks outstanding 
balance would reduce. But Mr and Mrs K disagreed  and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Halifax  has already  agreed to
do to put things right for Mr and Mrs K is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of their
complaint. Ill explain  why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where  a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business  to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong  hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business  to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit  they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business continued  to allow a consumer to use a credit facility  which  it should  
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt  paid any further  interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit  
from the point the lender ought  to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest 
and charges were  paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, Mr and Mrs K have  been left with an outstanding balance  even though  the 
credits theyve made to the account  have  been  factored  in and theyve been refunded all of 
the interest,  fees and charges applied. So while Mr and Mrs K has been  left with a 
substantial balance on their overdraft and they might be unhappy with this, Halifax has done 
what Id normally expect  it to do here.
That said,  we do look at each case individually and on its own particular  merits. And while 
we have a general  approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit  it shouldnt have (such as here),  we can and will tell it to do 
something different  and/or something  more if theres  a strong reason to say thats  what  
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances  of that individual case.
Ref: DRN25282372I understand that Mr and Mrs K dont want the account to be passed  to collections. Ive 
thought about what Mr and Mrs K have said. But all the interest,  fees and charges Halifax 
shouldnt have added have been removed from the overdraft. So what Mr and Mrs K are left 
with to repay are the funds which they used and benefitted from and I think  its perfectly  fair 
and reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs K to repay these funds and for the overdraft facility to 
be removed given all parties agree it is unsustainable.  I dont  think  that Mr and Mrs Ks 
unhappiness at the account  being passed to recoveries, even after their complaint has been 
upheld, is in itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach  here.
Halifax has also agreed to set up an affordable payment plan for Mr and Mrs K. So Halifax  
will take into account what, if anything, Mr and Mrs K are able to repay  when setting up this 
payment plan. Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied  that what Halifax has already agreed 
to do to put things  right for Mr and Mrs K is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of 
their case  and Im not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, I leave it up to    
Mr and Mrs K to decide whether they wish to accept  Halifaxs offer.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im satisfied  that what Bank of Scotland plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr and Mrs K is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of their complaint.  So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2528237