K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 
alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account at the same  time Mr A took out 
the card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr A says FICL mis-sold him the PPI policy.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think this complaint 
should be upheld.  
I completed a provisional decision on 3 July 2019,  which is attached and forms part of this 
decision, setting  out why I think  the policy was mis-sold. Neither  party responded with any 
evidence or comments for me to consider. So based  on my previous findings, and in the 
absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this complaint.
what the business should  do to put things right
FICL should put Mr A in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL  should find out how much Mr A would have owed when he closed his store  card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr A owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr A made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.FICL  should add simple interest  on the difference between what Mr A would have owed  
when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when FICL works  out what Mr A would have owed each month without PPI  Mr A 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr A paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr A would  
have owed FICL something on his store card. The interest  rate should be 8% a year. 
D.FICL  should tell Mr A what its done  to work out A, B and C. If the lender has already 
repaid any commission amount to Mr A that relates to this PPI sale, that sum can be 
deducted by FICL from the redress shown above.
Ref: DRN21519322 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mr A a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I think  the policy  
was mis-sold. I instruct Financial Insurance Company  Limited to refund Mr A for the PPI 
premiums paid as outlined above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr A says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr A bought the policy in 2004 at the same time as he took out a store  card.
Ref: DRN21519323Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Our adjudicator recommended  Mr As complaint should be upheld because Mr A had a medical 
condition when he bought the policy. So he may not have been covered  by the policy if hed had to 
take time off work in connection with that condition. The adjudicator thought it was unlikely that FICL 
had pointed  out the exclusion that affected him to Mr A. If FICL  had pointed  out the exclusion,  the 
adjudicator thought it was unlikely that Mr A wouldve  bought the policy. But Mr A had told us from the 
outset of his complaint that hed never had to take time off work because of his condition.
Even if FICL  had pointed out the policys  exclusion to him, in light of what  hes told us I dont think  
Mr A wouldve  thought  it likely he would need  to take time off work in connection  with his condition.  So 
I dont think Mr A wouldve  made  a different decision about buying the policy if FICL  had pointed  out 
the exclusion to him.
But Mr A has also told us throughout  his complaint that he was entitled to sick pay from his employer, 
and that he had some  savings. He says his sick pay was full pay for the first six months,  followed by 
six months half pay. And that he had savings  worth half of his salary. 
I understand Mr A has tried to get evidence  of his savings  but has been unsuccessful. I dont think 
thats unreasonable given  the amount of time thats passed since the policy  was sold. So Im willing to 
accept what Mr A has told us.
On that basis,  I think its unlikely that Mr A wouldve bought the policy if hed had better  information 
about its cost. I dont  think  Mr A wouldve known the basic cost of the policy  when he took out the 
policy. And he wouldnt have  known that interest would  be charged on the premiums  or that he would  
still have to pay the premiums if he made a claim.
I think  this wouldve mattered to Mr A because his combined sick pay and savings meant he couldve 
met his store  card repayments for a while without the policy.  I dont think Mr A wouldve bought the 
policy if hed known the true cost of it. So, I think Mr A has lost out because  of what FICL  did wrong.
what the business should do to put things  right
FICL should put Mr A in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much Mr A would  have owed when he closed his store card account  if 
the policy  hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges.
FICL should then refund the difference between what Mr A owed when he closed his account  and 
what he would have owed  if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr A made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for the claim 
from the amount  it owes him.
Ref: DRN21519324B.FICL should add simple  interest on the difference between what  Mr A would have  owed when he 
closed his account from when he closed  it until he gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% 
a year. 
C.If  when FICL works out what Mr A would have owed each month without PPI  Mr A paid more  
than enough to clear his balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on the extra  Mr A paid. 
And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr A would have  owed FICL something 
on his store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D.FICL should tell Mr A what  its done  to work  out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr A that relates to this PPI sale, that sum 
can be deducted by FICL from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mr A a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. I intend to direct Financial Insurance 
Company Limited to pay compensation to Mr A in line with the instructions above.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 3 August 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2151932