K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  the Guarantee Protection  Insurance Limited (GPI)  unfairly declined  a claim 
he attempted to make  under  his insurance  backed  guarantee.
background
In April 2016 Mr L purchased new windows and a door from a window company. When  the 
work was completed  the window company it was covered by an insurance backed 
guarantee. The insurance was provided  by GPI.
Mr L started to have problems shortly  after the windows and door were installed and told us 
he first noticed the issues in July 2016. The window company  was called out several times 
over the years that followed and were due to attend Mr Ls property again in November 2018  
to replace his door. Unfortunately, the window company ceased to trade before any further  
work was carried out.
Mr L attempted to claim under the insurance backed guarantee, but GPI declined Mr Ls 
claim as it says the circumstances werent covered under the policy.
Mr L felt GPIs decision was unfair so he brought his complaint to this service.  Our 
investigator didnt  think  this complaint should  be upheld, and as Mr L didnt  agree  this 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When GPI declined Mr Ls claim it relied on the following exclusion in Mr Ls policy:
The insurer shall not be liable for any defect  or breach  of Building Regulations discovered or 
reported to the Federation  Member  more than 3 months before  the Federation  Member 
Ceased to Trade 
From the information Mr L has provided  its clear the exclusion GPI has relied on to decline 
Mr Ls claim applies to his circumstances.  Mr L first experienced  problems with the work  
carried out by the window  company in July 2016  and reported  this to the company. This was 
more than three months before  it stopped  trading.
Mr L feels GPI has acted unfairly in declining his claim, but insurance policies dont cover 
every circumstance, and generally  have  some exclusions.
Mr Ls policy is designed to pay out when issues are found with an installation, that as a 
result of the company ceasing to trade  the consumer is unable  to raise  with the installer  
directly. The policy extends  the cover  to faults notified to the installer three months  before it 
stops trading.
As Mr Ls claim  falls within the exclusion relied  on by GPI I think it has acted  fairly  in deciding 
to decline his claim.
Ref: DRN23070302Mr L has told us that he never  received a policy document when the windows and door were 
first installed. I have considered what Mr L has said but I dont think  this has made any 
difference to his claim. Mr L noticed  problems with the installation more than two years 
before the company stopped trading and reported the issues to it. So whether Mr L had a 
copy of his policy or not he would never  have  been able to make  a claim for the issues  he 
experienced.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2307030