K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains of faults with a car she has on finance  with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (Blue). 
She says the car has been faulty  since it was supplied and she wants to be allowed to reject 
it and terminate her finance  agreement.
background
Ms C took receipt of a used vehicle in March 2018. The car had completed  73,302  miles at 
the point of supply and was about  six years  old. Ms C financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Blue but shes had problems since.
In March, shortly after she took receipt  of the car, she complained that the engine  power light 
had illuminated.  There were also problems with the central locking. The garage noted that 
Ms C had explained the power light had only illuminated for a few seconds. They noted that 
the fault code  suggested  mass air flow performance issues  but cleared the fault without 
taking any further  action. 
In June Ms C had work done to the door, which wouldnt lock; the suspension brushes and 
wishbones and the brake fluid needed replacing.
She continued to experience problems with the diesel particulate  filter (DPF)  and in July an 
independent engineers inspection was commissioned. The engineer  completed  a short  test 
drive and noted after a few miles  the vehicles running became erratic and there was a 
substantial judder. The engine management light illuminated and would then extinguish and 
no faults codes  were recorded when this happened. They suggested further investigation  
took place but on the balance of probabilities they suggested that the fault would have been 
present or developing at the point  of supply.
The dealership carried out a further  investigation.  It said the DPF needed  regenerating  and 
noted that the air filter was blocked.  The DPF was regenerated and the dealership explained 
to Ms C that shed need to take the car on longer drives to ensure it had a chance to 
regenerate the DPF itself. 
Ms C says that, despite heeding the dealerships  advice, the light came  on again  in 
September. The dealership replaced the glow plugs and regenerated the system. They 
noted the car had completed  just over 4,000 miles at that point.
But when Ms C got the car back the engine management came  on again. Ms C therefore  
complained to Blue. But Blue didnt accept  responsibility. They  said Ms Cs driving style was 
affecting the DPFs ability to regenerate  as she was only completing  short  trips and they said 
that as this was a serviceable matter and not a breakdown  there was no proof there  was 
anything wrong  with the car. They also noted  that the petrol tank had been empty  on both 
occasions when  Ms Cs DPF had been regenerated  by the dealership and they explained  
that this was a known  cause of filter blockage and was not recommended.
So Ms C referred her complaint to this service and our investigator considered the evidence.  
She agreed  with Ms C and she thought there  was evidence  from the independent engineer 
that there  were problems  with this car that had been  present  or developing at the point of 
supply. She was persuaded, by the consistency  of Ms Cs testimony, that she had been  
driving extra mileage,  as advised, to allow the car to regenerate the DPF but that regardless 
of this, the cars engine management light was still illuminating. She also recognised that 
Ref: DRN24081392Ms C had told them about the nature of her work and the type of driving she did and she 
didnt think this warranted a diesel car in which it may be necessary to do lengthier mileages 
to regenerate  the filter.  She noted that Blue seemed to accept this. 
Overall, the investigator  thought that Blue had had sufficient time to rectify the issue but 
clearly hadnt so she suggested  that they allow  Ms C to reject  the vehicle and terminate her 
finance agreement  with them. She thought the business should make  a payment equivalent 
to one monthly instalment to compensate Ms C for the time the car had been in the garage 
and that they should  also make a payment of £250  in recognition of the trouble and upset  
caused and a payment of £200 for the impaired use shed experienced as it was clear  the 
car regularly  went into limp mode.
But Blue disagreed.  They  said the first mention of any problem with the DPF was in July, 
three months into the agreement when Ms C had completed 3,000 miles of stop/start driving 
and the system needed regenerating. They  said the independent inspector had simply found 
that the issue needed further investigation  and they explained that further investigation had 
revealed a blocked DPF and air filters which they explained were  both serviceable items. 
They said it was most  likely  the issues Ms C was complaining of had been caused  by her 
driving style and they didnt think there  was evidence  anything was wrong with the car. So 
Blue asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms C acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied and if it wasnt  then Blue are 
responsible. I take account of relevant law when deciding  what is fair and reasonable. On 
this basis if I thought the car was faulty  when supplied, Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask 
Blue to put this right. 
But Blues responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
the DPF issue
Ms C first returned her car to Blue within a week of taking receipt of it. Blue say that the first 
time she referred the problem with the DPF to them was in July but I think  it was during her 
first visit in March that this was first highlighted. I say that because I see from the job sheets 
that the engine  power light was reported  to have come on. Its clear that Ms C told them it 
only came  on for a few seconds and that no remedial  work was carried out at that time.  I 
think its likely that this power light would refer to an issue  with the DPF. I say that because 
Ref: DRN24081393its the same  type of failure that Ms C later complained of in July and October and also 
because Ms C has confirmed that this is the light that had illuminated.
Its clear that Ms C completes a limited  amount of mileage per month: its regularly lower 
than 500 miles and it seems that its likely  this type of driving would lead to the DPF getting 
blocked.
I assume that if the DPF gets blocked Ms C would be warned of this by the car and this 
would allow her to take the car for a longer drive at high revs to allow  the system to reach 
the right temperature and perform  a full regeneration.
So I asked  Ms C and the business to explain if this were the case.
Ms C explained that the DPF light was always on. She said that the filter appeared to be 
beyond unblocking  and even after a forced regeneration it was blocked again  the very next 
day. She said the car now smokes  all the time and uses excessive amounts of fuel. 
The business talked  to the dealership and they said when they looked at the vehicle  
previously, they couldnt find anything to suggest  it wasnt functioning properly.
The independent engineer explained  that only a limited amount of fault codes are available  
when interrogating  the system using mobile devices and thats why hed referred it back to 
the dealership  for investigation.  But he said that on the balance of probabilities  the issues  he 
noted at the time were there at the inception of the finance agreement.
Ive thought about all the information thats been  provided here and it seems  clear that Ms C 
isnt being warned that the system  is getting  blocked and that means  the car isnt functioning  
as it should. I think  its likely  the DPF is blocked  beyond repair.  As Ms C informed the 
business of this issue in March and again  in July and October and its failed to rectify the 
issue then I think its reasonable to suggest  that the business should  now allow her to reject  
the car. And the law would support me in this, as the relevant  legislation allows the business  
one chance to rectify the problem but if that fails it should allow the consumer to return  the 
vehicle and terminate  the deal.
Ive considered whether the age of Ms Cs car at the inception  of the deal means  that I 
should take a different view but Im persuaded that a reasonable person wouldnt expect to 
have to return their car to the dealership to have  the DPF regenerated so frequently. So this 
hasnt changed  my view and I still think Blue should allow Ms B to reject the car.
durability
And if Im wrong about the DPF problem I still think Ms C should  be allowed to reject the car 
on the basis that it hasnt proved durable  enough.  When considering whether a car was 
satisfactory at the point  of supply this is an issue that the relevant legislation  suggests  is an 
important factor. The car has suffered frequent failures in March,  June, July, August, 
September and October.  Its now fairly un-drivable and I think, even considering  the age and 
mileage its completed,  a reasonable  person  would expect  the car to be more  durable.
So I dont  think this car has proved to be of satisfactory quality as its most likely  faults  were  
developing at the point of supply and its not proved sufficiently durable.
Ref: DRN24081394my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Blue Motor  Finance Ltd to:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay
collect the car at no cost to Ms C
refund  the deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement
pay £227.98, the equivalent of one monthly instalment, to compensate Ms C for the 
time her car has been at the garage being repaired
pay Ms C £200 to compensate her for the impaired use shes experienced
pay Ms C £250 to compensate her for the trouble and upset thats  been  caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2408139