K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that AWP P&C SA (AWP)  acted  unfairly and unreasonably when dealing 
with his claim under a travel insurance  policy.  He wants matters  put right.
background
Mr S had an annual travel  insurance policy with AWP that provided cover for him and his two 
children. As a present  for his partner,  in April 2018 he booked  a trip abroad  for themselves 
and their extended families to take place in July 2019 (13 people in total). But Mr S partners 
father became ill and it was feared that he mightnt be well enough to travel.  They decided to 
cancel the trip in January  2019 after Mr S took advice  from AWP.  Mr S hadnt  been able to 
recover the deposits he paid.
Mr S said that despite several calls, he wasnt told that only his and his childrens share  of 
the trip was covered by the policy though hed said that he had paid the whole cost. Mr S felt 
that AWP didnt give him correct information to allow him to make  an informed decision 
about the trip  he said that it told him initially that all of his costs  would  be covered and it 
was in reliance of this advice that the trip was cancelled. Mr S also said that he was told by 
AWP that only the standard excess fee would be deducted, not that three fees would be 
taken (one each for him and his children.).
Mr S complained to AWP and noted that a member of staff had agreed with him that hed 
been given wrong advice  and the insurer was in the wrong. It said that the initial calls werent  
available and Mr S had suggested that if hed known the correct position,  he wouldve 
amended the invoices  to hide the involvement  of the others  going  on the trip. It didnt change 
its position.
Mr S complained to us and said that it wasnt fair that AWP couldnt find the recordings of the 
three calls where he believed he was misled.  The investigators view was that AWP was at 
fault. Hed listened to the later call between Mr S and one of the members  of staff who taken 
part in some of the initial  calls and that person had admitted wrong  advice mayve  been 
given to Mr S. The same  person said as hed been new when  dealing  with Mr S, it was 
possible that it was his fault that there were no call recordings  from earlier.
The investigator said that the evidence  showed  Mr S had paid for the accommodation and 
flight deposits for 13 people and hed explained  why he was paying for the trip for everyone  
(as a gift for his partners  birthday).  He said the full amount  paid by Mr S for the 
accommodation plus interest should  be paid by AWP, minus the three excess fees as the 
policy said an excess fee per insured person  would  be charged.
Mr S accepted the investigators view, but AWP didnt. It said Mr S worked  in the travel 
industry and shouldve known only the costs of the insured persons would be covered by the 
policy. AWP didnt accept  that Mr S had any other  option but to cancel in any event and said 
the investigator had overlooked the terms and conditions of the policy. It also asked  if the 
others in the party had even tried to claim for the cancelled trip under their own travel  
insurance policies  and what evidence existed that Mr S didnt have a private  arrangement to 
be paid by the others. AWP said that the investigators decision meant it was unclear if he 
thought if someone  uninsured by the policy wouldve been covered if theyd become unwell 
while away.
Ref: DRN27914592The investigator said that Mr S job was irrelevant and he had the same rights as other  
customers; he had relied  on the information  from AWP  to make a decision whether  to cancel 
the trip so the other alternatives were also irrelevant.  The investigator pointed  out that the 
policy didnt specifically exclude holidays bought  as a gift from cover  and this services view 
was that the whole of the accommodation costs were covered. He was willing to rely on 
Mr S evidence that he was paying for the whole cost and said the point about  medical  cover  
made by AWP was irrelevant. The investigator confirmed that the number of excess fees to 
be charged was three. AWP said if it had to pay the whole cost, 13 excesses  should  be 
deducted; it also said that it wasnt possible to exclude every possibility.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
When I refer to AWP, Im also referring to its agent.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that AWP  has a responsibility  to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the policy itself. It confirms  that if a claim is 
made, an excess fee per insured person will be deducted. There  are three insured persons 
in Mr Ss case, who have  the benefit  of not just cancellation cover,  but also other types of 
cover. The policy also says:
We will pay up to the amount shown  in your summary of cover in total,  for your part of 
unused personal  accommodation, transport charges and other travel expenses  which  have 
been paid or where there is a contract to pay that cannot be recovered from anywhere  else.
The policy doesnt  exclude the costs  paid by a policyholder for a gifted  holiday,  and despite 
AWPs view, this is easily done and is done  by other  insurers. In fact, the reference to your  
part doesnt explain if its the insureds share of the holiday or their liability  to pay. And its 
possible to read the phrase or where  there  is a contract to pay that cannot be recovered 
from anywhere else. separately from the rest of the term. Essentially, there isnt a clear  
exclusion for the costs  paid by an insured person  as a gift for others.  This services  view is 
that we consider whats fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
Mr S has shown  that hes paid for the entire deposit costs  of the accommodation  and the 
flights. He has explained  that his intention was to gift the trip to celebrate  his partners 
birthday  my intention was to fully finance the cost of the entire trip for everyone invited. 
His job is irrelevant to this complaint  as hes a consumer and it isnt possible for him to 
disprove AWPs suggestion that there  may be private arrangement  for him to be paid by the 
others. Theres no evidence at all supporting  such  a suggestion and Mr S has given a 
credible account  of his intentions. And it isnt reasonable  to expect ten others  to try to make 
a claim under their insurance policies, if any exist, (especially  as they werent  expecting  to 
pay) when Mr S did pay and his claim is not excluded under  the terms and conditions  of the 
policy.
Ref: DRN27914593What is particularly critical in Mr S case is that before cancelling the trip, he contacted  AWP 
more than once  and sought  advice.  The calls arent available and apparently neither are the 
contact notes. One of the staff members who advised Mr S accepted  that he mayve given 
him incorrect information (Ive listened  to that call); AWP has never denied that Mr S 
mightve been misled  as a result. I think Mr S account is credible and I accept it, particularly 
as its consistent  and supported by one member  of staff. I dont think  that its relevant that 
Mr S threatened to ask for the invoice to be changed as this didnt happen.
I think its fair and reasonable for AWP to pay the deposit costs of the accommodation and 
flights (minus  whats been paid already and excess fees),  given the failure to exclude the 
claim and the initial  information given to Mr S. I also think  8% simple interest a year from the 
date Mr S first claimed to the date of payment should be paid. AWP has said that 13 excess  
fees should be deducted in that case as 13 people  were  travelling. Ive thought carefully  
about this point. The policy refers to an excess fee for each insured person. The other ten 
people werent  insured  by AWP and wouldnt be able to make  a claim under the policy.  Mr S 
was insured and he is the person who suffered  the loss. I think only three excess fees 
should be deducted from the deposit  costs before interest is calculated.
And its clear  from the evidence Mr S was deeply  upset  and frustrated by AWPs refusal  to 
pay his claim. I note that this happened  at a time when his partners  father was seriously 
unwell and AWP was unable to produce any records of the initial calls between it and Mr S, 
increasing his suspicions  and distress. I dont think its attitude  to the complaint has helped  
and AWP has made  a number of unreasonable and unfair comments. While money  never 
truly compensates for trouble and upset, I think £200 is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr S said he entirely agreed with my view.  AWP 
disagreed. It thought that Mr S job was relevant and he shouldve  known  that his claim 
wouldnt be covered.  AWP  also said that the phrase your part of unused  personal 
accommodation within  the terms and conditions  of the policy made it clear  holidays couldnt 
be gifted and be covered.  It accepted though that Id said the policy didnt specifically 
exclude gifted  holidays, but said the policy also didnt say that theyre covered either. AWP 
went on to complain that I said only three excess fees could be deducted when I was 
suggesting that Mr S full loss should  be covered; it thought that I was picking and choosing  
which parts  of the policy to apply. 
Ive considered what the parties have said and reviewed the complaint and evidence. Having 
reviewed AWPs  response,  theres nothing new within  it that it hadnt already  said when I 
made my provisional decision; for example,  its argument about the wording  of the policy.  Ive 
already explained why I think the phrase your  part doesnt necessarily mean what  AWP 
says it means. Its response  also doesnt change the wording of the policy or what  Mr S was 
told when he called  AWP about the situation initially. AWP has already been told that Mr S 
job or unactioned threat doesnt mean that he cant bring a complaint. 
Ref: DRN27914594I remain of the view that my findings  about the policy are fair and reasonable  if AWP wants 
to exclude gifted holidays, it should say so clearly  so consumers understand the position 
when deciding if the policy meets their needs.  It seems from reading AWPs response that it 
hasnt borne in mind  the guidance from this service about gifted holidays, exclusions,  or that 
we dont just consider  the legal position,  but consider  whats  fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. This is why some parts of the policy (such as excess  fees) are applied in full 
as I think its fair and reasonable (and I have explained in my provisional  decision why), 
while other parts may not be applied in the way the insurer argues. 
Its disappointing to note that AWP hasnt  taken on board my earlier observations about its 
approach to this matter  and has continued to make comments about Mr S in its response  to 
this service.
I remain of the view set out in my provisional  decision, and confirm  it as my final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and AWP P&C SA should pay the balance  of 
the accommodation and flight deposit costs minus three excess  fees and interest  as outlined 
above to Mr S, together  with £200  for the trouble and upset caused.  Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 28 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2791459