K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that TSB Bank  plc wont refund £4,250 which  she says was withdrawn from 
her account  without her knowledge or authority. 
background
Mrs S opened a current account  with TSB in April 2017. She didnt use it until a year later, 
however, when her husband transferred £5,000  from his account. Mrs S has explained that 
her account  was to be used for her own personal expenditure. The £5,000 was to be used to 
buy her a car. 
Over the following weeks Mrs S made a few modest  payments  from her account, including, 
on 24 April 2018, a payment of just over £30 to a supermarket.  About an hour-and-a-half 
later her card was used  to make a £250  cash machine withdrawal. Over the following days 
the card was used  to make further cash machine withdrawals  each  of £250, twice a day. 
On 2 May Mrs S contacted TSB to say that shed identified the cash  machine withdrawals  
but that she hadnt made them. By that time a total of £4,250 had been withdrawn in 17 
transactions. TSB blocked  the card and started  looking  into what had happened. 
Mrs S said she thought her card must  have  been  taken when she used it in the supermarket 
on 24 April. She had noticed  two men standing close to her and had asked them to move 
away. She believed  they must have seen her PIN at that time and then managed  to take her 
card. She didnt  recall having it after that time. 
TSB didnt  however accept that this is what happened. It didnt believe that the 
circumstances that Mrs S had described  indicated that her card had been  taken and used by 
unknown fraudsters. It declined to provide her with a refund. Mrs S didnt accept TSBs 
conclusions and referred the matter  to this service.
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Ss complaint but concluded that it was more likely 
than not that Mrs S either  made the withdrawals  herself or allowed someone else to do so. 
Mrs S didnt accept her conclusions and asked that an ombudsman  review the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons.
The investigator commented on what Mrs S had said generally  about the purpose of the 
account and the money  that was paid into it, noting  for example that some  of it had been 
used to buy everyday  items, not for a car. She also made some  observations  about  the 
timing and nature of the disputed withdrawals.  Ill return to those  points, but will focus first on 
the circumstances in which she says her card went missing. 
Mrs S believes her card was taken in a supermarket on 24 April. She says she recalls two 
men close  to her and asked them to step back.  She was suspicious of them. Despite that, 
however, she says she didnt notice until later that she didnt have her card with her when 
she left the supermarket.  She says the men were  able to see her PIN, even though she took 
extra care to ensure  they couldnt.  And she says they were able to take her card, even 
though she asked them to move away.
Ref: DRN25454932Im not persuaded that Mrs Ss card was taken  in the way she suggests. I think  it unlikely 
that, if people  were acting  suspiciously and Mrs S had identified that and confronted them,  
they would  still be able to observe her PIN and take her card. And Id expect  her to be even 
more careful to check she had her card with her when  she left the shop. 
Mrs S told us that she noticed her card was missing a couple of days later, on 26 April. She 
tried to contact TSB, but was unable to get an answer on the banks fraud  line. (She 
suggests this might  have  been because of its well-publicised IT issues at the time.) TSB 
however has no record  of any contact until 2 May. When Mrs S did contact TSB, she didnt 
say that shed tried nearly a week earlier to report the loss of her card, but had been  unable 
to do so. On the contrary, her initial complaint letter said quite clearly that she only realised 
her card wasnt  with her on 2 May. I dont believe she tried to contact the bank before that. 
Our investigator asked  Mrs S to provide itemised  phone  bills showing that she called on 26 
April, but those provided only showed calls from the following day. In my view, her later 
reference to trying to call the bank on 26 April was an attempt to explain away the delay in 
reporting the card missing  between 24 April and 2 May.   
Its possible of course  that Mrs Ss card went missing in circumstances unconnected  with her 
supermarket purchase on 24 April.  But that wouldnt explain how anyone else could  have 
obtained her PIN, and she hasnt identified any other opportunity for a thief to take it. 
In addition, Mrs S said shed lost her driving  licence and had to apply for a replacement. But 
when our investigator asked for evidence of that Mrs S told her that she thought her husband 
had applied  for the replacement licence but shed  been mistaken.  
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that Mrs Ss card was taken and her PIN observed  
either as she says, or at all. I dont  therefore need  to comment  on any further matters, but 
will do so fairly briefly.  
I note that the first disputed withdrawal took place more than an hour-and-a-half after Mrs 
Ss supermarket visit. Id expect a thief to try to use the card almost immediately, however. 
All the withdrawals after 24 April took place either  side of midnight, so the two daily 
withdrawal limits could be used with a single visit to a cash machine. Thats a pattern thats 
consistent with theft of a card  but also one thats  fairly easily  copied.  I do note however 
that there  were two attempts to use the card after it had been  stopped   but they took place 
during the evening, not around midnight.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that the disputed withdrawals were  made  by an 
unauthorised third party. On balance, I think  it more likely that Mrs S made them herself  or 
allowed someone else to do so. In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to require TSB to 
refund them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require TSB Bank  plc to do anything further to resolve Mrs Ss 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Ref: DRN25454933Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2545493