K820x#14complaint
Miss U complains about her mortgage  with Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited (SPML). 
Miss U complains that SPML:
mis-sold a fraudulent  mortgage  to her in 2005;
shouldnt have  made payments to the management agent when she was in a dispute 
with it and then added  this amount to the mortgage loan;  and
was unhelpful  and refused to allow enough time for Miss U to remortgage  elsewhere. 
Instead it took premature legal action which has led to unfair  costs.
background
In 2005 Miss U took out an interest only mortgage of £40,000 with Southern Pacific 
Mortgages Limited (SPML). The mortgage loan was sold by a broker  and was taken out over 
a 12-year term. 
Miss U has several complaints with SPML in recent years, and SPML  has issued a number 
of final response letters.  At times Miss U has complained about the sale of the mortgage, 
arrears fees, legal fees, the addition of service charges to the mortgage, SPMLs treatment 
of her and its decision to take legal action when the mortgage reached  the end of its agreed 
term. 
Miss Us mortgage expired in December 2016.  In mid 2017  SPML  decided  to take legal 
action to recover the mortgage balance.  On 15 November 2017 a court  granted  SPML  a 
possession order which was enforceable from January 2018. SPML agreed a short 3-month 
extension to the term to May 2018  to enable Miss U to extend  the term of her lease and 
explore applying for a remortgage  elsewhere  with a financial adviser. Miss U was unhappy 
about SPMLs treatment of her and made a complaint.
In August  2018  SPML responded to Miss Us complaint  that it wouldnt extend  the term 
further and that it was pursuing legal action.  SPML  didnt think  it had acted  unfairly or 
prematurely in seeking to get the mortgage balance repaid. It said the term of the interest  
only mortgage had expired in 2016,  and it had waited for the balance to be repaid. SPML 
asked that the balance  be repaid or said it would start legal action again.
In October  2018, the mortgage  was transferred  from SPML  to a different lender, which Ill 
call K. In 2019 Miss U sold her property and repaid her mortgage to K. 
Miss U first contacted our service about her complaint in January 2019. She was unhappy 
about the way SPML  has treated her with respect to the mortgage for many  years.
SPML said parts of Miss Us complaint had been brought to us too late under  the complaint 
handling time rules  and it wouldnt  give its consent for us to consider those issues now.  Our 
investigator thought  we couldnt look at some  parts  of Miss Us complaint  as shed come to 
our service  too late, but he thought there were other parts of the complaint we could 
consider.
I issued a jurisdiction  decision on 4 February 2021 setting out which  parts of this complaint  
we could investigate  now. I determined we could look at Miss Us complaint about service 
charges that had been paid to the management  agent and applied to her mortgage between  
October 2015 and October 2018. And that we could investigate how SPML had treated 
Ref: DRN28476272Miss U to recover  the mortgage  balance from August 2017 to October  2018,  including its 
decision to take legal  action when it did.
Our investigator looked at the parts of the complaint we can consider. He thought  that SPML 
had acted reasonably when it had paid overdue  amounts  to the management agent and 
added this to Miss Us mortgage. And he thought SPML had shown a reasonable degree of 
forbearance while waiting  for Miss U to explore plans  to repay the mortgage  and extend her 
lease. He didnt  think the complaint should be upheld.
Miss U disagreed with our investigators  findings.  Miss U replied to say, in summary:
-the county court  judgment that she received in July 2018  was not for unpaid service  
charges. It was because she had deducted the cost of maintenance work  shed paid 
for from her service  charge payments;
-Miss U says it isnt possible under the terms of her lease for the agent to forfeit  the 
lease; and
-The additional amount thats now been added to her mortgage is illegal as SPML 
should not lend money  to a person who is unable  to repay  the debt.
As Miss U didnt agree with our investigators findings this complaint has been passed  to me 
to reach  a final decision on the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Miss U has asked for more time to provide further  arguments  to our service  
about this dispute. I appreciate Miss Us strength of feeling about her complaint and I dont  
underestimate how important this matter is to her. That said,  this complaint has been 
investigated by us for some time and we already hold considerable evidence  about this 
matter on our files. I have reviewed all of this evidence  before reaching my decision. 
Miss U has made detailed representations  about her complaint, the wider circumstances 
around this dispute,  and has shared  her response to the investigators view with us already.
Were an informal dispute resolution  service set up as a free alternative to the courts. Were 
set up to resolve complaints with minimal formality and in a timely way. Ive looked at all the 
information we have about this complaint  and Im satisfied that Im able to reach  a final 
decision without any further submissions or clarification from Miss U. I intend no discourtesy 
to Miss U by saying this. It merely represents the informal nature  of our service  and my role 
within it.
I should also clarify that in this decision I have looked solely  at the actions of SPML.  Miss U 
has also complained  about the actions of K once it took over the mortgage in October 2018. 
Ive made  no assessment  in this complaint about what happened  once  this mortgage was 
transferred to K or events  after October 2018. That complaint is to be covered under a 
separate complaint reference. 
did SPML  act unfairly when it made a payment to the management agent and added  this to 
Miss Us mortgage balance? 
Ref: DRN28476273Miss U has shared a detailed representation  of the long running  dispute shes been  in with 
the management agent of her property. The matter is clearly  complicated and highly 
emotive. Miss U has said she feels this dispute is why shes  ended  up with this mortgage in 
the first place and why she disputes  the validity of the mortgage. 
On 22 August 2017 Miss U was taken to court by the management agent for unpaid 
amounts due. The judge ordered that Miss U pay around £780  plus costs to the claimant.  In 
November the judgment  was varied to allow Miss U to pay this back  at an arrangement of 
£50 per month. 
Miss U says she is still in dispute  about  this matter, and her testimony  indicates  that she 
doesnt agree with the outcome of the court action or that she received  a fair hearing. I 
understand that Miss U feels strongly  about this matter, but this issue is outside  of the 
specific complaint about SPML that I am to consider. It has also been decided by a court so I 
shall say no more about that dispute here.
In 2018 the management  agent contacted SPML saying Miss U wasnt  making the required 
payments due to it under  the court order. SPML  contacted Miss U who said she was still in 
dispute over the matter  and that it should  not make  a payment. The management  agent  
contacted SPML several months  later saying the payment arrangement  was still not being  
adhered to by Miss U and saying the next step it planned to take would be to forfeit  the 
lease. 
I can see the dilemma that SPML faced at this point. I also understand why, when presented  
with the county court judgment and evidence that Miss U wasnt meeting the payment 
arrangement agreed by the court, SPML made the payment outstanding to protect its 
security. Miss U does  have a duty under  the mortgagors obligations in the mortgage 
agreement to comply with the terms of any lease under which the Property is held, and any 
covenant restriction  or obligation which affects  the property. 
Having considered all the wider circumstances of this complaint, I consider  that SPML acted 
reasonably by paying the outstanding amount claimed by the management agent. This step 
was taken to protect SPMLs security and I think it was reasonable and within  the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage agreement  that this amount  was then added to the mortgage 
balance.
did SPML  allow  Miss U enough time to pursue a remortgage or did it take legal action 
prematurely?
Im mindful that our investigator has already set out a detailed analysis of what happened 
between August 2017 and October  2018  as part of his findings.  I find myself in broad 
agreement with his assessment  that SPML acted fairly over this period. 
SPML and Miss U entered  into an agreement for an interest only mortgage over a 12 year 
term. At the end of that agreement  Miss U was required to repay the mortgage  and found  
herself struggling to do so. In such circumstances I would expect a lender to show some 
forbearance where a customer  is unable to repay  an interest only mortgage thats expired 
and allow  Miss U to sort out the sale of the property or an alternative  plan. Im satisfied that 
SPML showed forbearance following the expiry  of Miss Us mortgage loan in 2016,  such  as 
agreeing to short term extensions, or holding further  legal action while Miss U met with a 
financial adviser or sorted out an extension to the propertys lease. 
Ref: DRN28476274I appreciate there were a number of practical barriers that meant Miss U had a lack of 
options when  the mortgage expired. Miss U doesnt  appear to have had a clear strategy to 
repay the mortgage in 2016,  and struggled  to find another lender due to her job status and 
the relatively short term of her lease. A family member also tried to raise  mortgage financing  
to help Miss U but that fell through.
This must have been an incredibly stressful and worrying time for Miss U and Im glad she 
now has certainty to her situation  and the mortgage  is repaid. However,  I dont think  SPML  
acted prematurely in taking legal action when it did. With the benefit of hindsight Miss U 
found a way to stay in the property but this was by no means a certain end result.  At times  
Miss U was unable to maintain her mortgage  payments and she fell behind  with her 
payments. I appreciate  the concerns SPML had about getting this balance repaid and why it 
felt legal action  was necessary at the time it made this decision. 
has SPML  unfairly  added legal fees to Miss Us mortgage?
SPMLs decision to take legal action to recover the mortgage balance  led to legal fees being 
added to Miss Us mortgage. I have  looked at the legal fees which  were  applied during the 
period from August 2017 to October  2018.  Ive also reviewed the detailed  breakdown  of the 
work undertaken by solicitors on SPMLs  behalf. I dont think  the fees applied are 
unreasonably high for the work that was carried  out and I dont consider the work undertaken 
was excessive.
Ive also looked  at the terms  and conditions of Miss Us mortgage. The terms allow  SPML to 
recover the cost of legal work to protect the lenders  position. Im satisfied that SPML was 
able to recover the costs of this legal work by adding it to Miss Us mortgage balance and I 
dont uphold this part of the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2847627