K821x#15Complaint
Mr G has complained about the advice he received from an appointed representative (AR)  
I will refer to the adviser from here on in as Mr W  of Lighthouse Advisory  Services Limited 
(Lighthouse) to transfer his personal  pension plans into a Self-Invested  Personal  Pension 
(SIPP) and invest in Harlequin property.
He has also complained that he approached Lighthouse to review his holdings in 2013.  But 
Lighthouse did not review  his investments.
Background
Lighthouse was Mr Gs financial adviser. In 2010,  Mr G and Mr W discussed  the investments 
Mr G and his wife held.  Mr G has said that they reviewed the existing investments and also 
focussed on Mr Gs pension benefits. On 1 November 2010, Mr W emailed Mr G using his 
Lighthouse email address, he said:
Further to our recent telephone conversation regarding both yours and your wifes
investment portfolio I have now obtained  a full list of the investments you bought
through [previous adviser] and they are as follows:

[list of investments held]

If possible, could  you spend a few minutes  reconciling the above  list with your 
records and letting me know if there are any additional investments to be added, or if 
anything has been cancelled Once  received, I will ask my PA to obtain current  
valuations of all policies  still in force.
Also as discussed, please could you let me know a few dates over the next couple of 
weeks, when it would  be convenient for us to meet
On 17 November 2010, Lighthouse wrote to Mr G following their initial  meeting enclosing
letters of authority for his pension policies. The letter set out:
Further to our meeting  last night, once again,  I would like to thank you for sparing 
the time to meet me and, I hope that you found  it both useful  and informative.
As promised, please find enclosed  two letters of authority, one for [name  of pension 
provider] and one for [name of other pension provider], which  I would be grateful if 
you would  print and sign where indicated.
I also enclose [Mr Gs first name]  pension valuation  which I have now copied, 
together with information on the fund you are currently invested in, I think youll  both 
agree, whilst it has done ok, its rather volatile, bearing in mind  the time left until 
retirement.
Ref: DRN22733942As discussed with [Mr Gs wife], I am passing your house tomorrow, so please could 
you sign the relevant  letters and I will collect both these and the risk profile 
questionnaires I left with you when passing.
Mr G then appears to have focussed on transferring  his deferred final salary scheme into his
then current occupational pension scheme.
On 8 February 2012, Mr G emailed  Mr W at his Lighthouse email  address about the success  
in the transferring of his defined benefit  pension and requested  that Mr W provide  advice  on 
investing his other holdings.
I trust that things are well with you.
Last month,  I finally managed to have the money transferred from the [name of 
scheme] pension scheme to the [name of the existing  OPS] pension scheme, with 
the deferred pension being  as per the original quote  of over a year ago, plus an uplift 
that would  have been due if the transfer had been  made in early  2011. Thanks for 
your help in achieving this.
Looking back to when  we first met, you were going  to be looking at the various  
places where we have money and come up with advice  with what  to do with them.  I 
recognise that the pension transfer matter  became  a real focus but we ought to get 
back to the original matter. How should  we proceed with this?
Mr W responded on 13 February 2012, he said he would  call Mr G the next day.
On 30 March 2012, Mr G sent an email  to Mr W, the email said:
Having given the Caribbean SIPP investment idea some thought,  wed like to find 
out more details, particularly in respect of the range of possible returns  and risk. 
Would going over to Essex be the best way to do that? If so, should  we suggest an 
afternoon when we could  make the trip?
Mr W responded on 2 April 2012  from his personal email address  about the next steps and 
to organise a meeting in Basildon.
On 8 June 2012, signed  letters  of authority were signed and sent to Mr Gs existing pension  
providers. It was requested that any information  about the plans should  be sent to an adviser  
at a second advisory firm [Firm  B]. The authority provided that:
Would you please  accept this letter as my authority to provide full details of the 
above plan(s) to [name  of adviser]. I confirm that I am receiving financial advice from 
[name of adviser].
[contact details for adviser]
I accept and confirm  that the responsibility for any advice given must  remain with the 
provider and/or the original adviser(s).
A meeting was held on 21 August 2012. In accordance with the statements provided by 
Mr G and Firm B, Mr W organised the meeting  and was driving the agenda. The meeting 
was also attended  by Firm B. The SIPP application  form was completed. Firm B was listed  
Ref: DRN22733943as the financial  adviser  on the form. The identification verification  certificate  was signed by 
Mr W as senior  practice executive  of Lighthouse  Financial Advice  Limited.
The intended investment was recorded as Harlequin. Harlequin Hotels  & Resorts sold
freehold investment  properties within its luxury hotels and resorts  in the Caribbean.
The pension funds  were  to be invested  in a villa in the Gary  Player  Hotel, The Marquis 
Estate, St Lucia.
A reservation form and contract for the Harlequin investment were  completed.  The sellers 
address for all communications in relation  to the contract was the address for Harlequin  
Travel Limited. Mr Gs signature on this document was witnessed by Mr W on 28 August 
2012  but, the contract was dated  on 10 May 2012 and printed on 29 May 2012.
Mr W liaised  with the provider of one of the pensions to be switched to the SIPP  regarding  
the transfer. An email  from Mr Ws personal email  address was sent to the ceding  provider 
asking for confirmation  of the transfer value on 4 September  2012.
Transfers of approximately £11,300 and £90,000 were received into the SIPP from Mr Gs 
ceding schemes in September 2012.
The following  gross  contributions were made in addition into the plan:
£5,500 on 10 September 2012
£500 on 13 March  2013
An investment of over £100,000 was made into the Harlequin investment on
12 September 2012.
The Harlequin investment was valued  at £1 as of 27 February  2014.
Mr G complained to Lighthouse  regarding the advice to transfer and invest in Harlequin.
Lighthouse did not uphold  the complaint. It said that Mr G was not a client  of Lighthouse and
had not received any investment advice  from the firm.
Unhappy with this response,  Mr G brought the complaint  to this service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She concluded that:
Mr W, as an AR of Lighthouse, had acted as Mr Gs adviser  over a number of years.
In February 2012 Mr G approached Mr W for advice in that capacity.
After this Mr W at least introduced Mr G to Harlequin during communications  as an 
AR of Lighthouse.
There was no evidence that Mr W was acting in a different capacity at this point.
Mr W went on to arrange the meeting in Basildon to discuss Harlequin.
Mr W organised  and attended the meeting  where the switch was arranged, and the 
SIPP application was completed.
The SIPP application  form of 21 August 2012 shows  that Mr W was present at the 
meeting. He signed the identity verification document in his capacity as an AR of 
Lighthouse.
The SIPP application  form lists Firm B as the adviser and it did attend the meeting 
where the form was signed  but, the evidence points to Mr W being the driving force  
behind the transaction.
Ref: DRN22733944Despite the limitations  in terms of paperwork,  it is most  likely Mr W, acting as an AR 
of Lighthouse, advised Mr G to switch  his pensions to a SIPP  and invest  in Harlequin.
In doing so it had to consider the suitability of the advice, based on the available 
information the course of action recommended was not suitable.
In relation to the points raised by Mr G about  Lighthouses failure  to provide himwith 
a review in 2013. A letter from Lighthouse on 5 August 2013 confirms  an initial 
meeting. Lighthouse said that following the meeting when the adviser did not hear 
back from Mr G, he assumed that Mr G did not want to deal with him anymore.
Lighthouse  was not in receipt of any ongoing fees from Mr Gs SIPP. There  was no 
evidence that a client agreement or terms of business were  signed during the 
meeting of August 2012. Therefore, it was her opinion that Lighthouse was under no 
obligation to review Mr Gs pension in 2013.
Lighthouse did not agree with the investigators opinion. It argued that:
It had not accepted  responsibility for Mr Ws actions.
There is no evidence that Mr W gave any advice  in relation to the Harlequin  
investment  he referred Mr G to Firm B who advised on and implemented  the 
investment.
Mr W was not acting  on behalf of Lighthouse in relation to any activities to do with 
Harlequin and would  not have  appeared to be so acting.
A further  contribution of £5,000 was made in February 2013 but Mr W ceased to be 
an adviser for its AR in December 2012, so it cannot  be held responsible for 
investments made after that point.
The business Lighthouse accepted responsibility for was set out in the agreement 
with Mr W, this provided that:
oMr W was only permitted to obtain  business for Lighthouse.
oLighthouse  only accepted responsibility  for the activities it permitted Mr W to 
undertake if these were done on behalf of and through  Lighthouse.
In the Court of Appeal decision Anderson v Sense Network Limited the AR was 
required to carry out business through the principals  company  agencies and the 
ARs activities were found not to be activities for which the principal accepted  
responsibility because  it failed  to do so.
The restriction in Lighthouses AR agreement  is to the same  effect  and limits its 
responsibility in the same  way.
No evidence has been provided that the transaction was undertaken on behalf of or 
through Lighthouse.
Mr W was not permitted to recommend Harlequin and he knew  this  this is most 
likely why he referred Mr G to other  entities and corresponded via his personal email  
address.
So, Mr W was not acting as an agent of Lighthouse  nor could he reasonably be 
viewed to have  been by others.
Because agreement  could  not be reached the complaint was passed  to me for review.
I sent my provisional decision to Mr G and Lighthouse explaining why I thought this was a 
complaint we could  consider and that it should  be upheld. My provisional findings  are 
attached and form part of this decision. I invited both parties to submit anything  further  they 
wanted me to consider. 
Ref: DRN22733945Mr G confirmed that he didnt have anything he wanted to add. Lighthouse made a number 
of further submissions. Ive read these  in their entirety  including  the case  and additional 
information it asked  me to consider   here Ive just included a brief summary. 
Lighthouse also said it thought the complaint had been brought  too late and asked for 
clarification in respect of aspects of the redress set out in my provisional decision.  Our 
investigator responded explaining that the complaint had been  brought  within six years of the 
event complained about, so hadnt  been  brought too late. She also responded to 
Lighthouses queries  about the proposed  compensation. 
Lighthouses other  submissions focus  on it not being responsible for the activities and the 
involvement of another regulated adviser,  Firm B. Briefly, it said:  
My findings were at odds with a decision issued on another similar complaint. 
The information on that file is relevant and needs  to be considered,  as it evidences 
that Mr W wasnt permitted to sell UCIS and it isnt responsible  for the acts that are 
the subject of the complaint. 
Even if it accepted that Mr W gave  the advice as an AR of Lighthouse, which it 
doesnt, Mr W acted outside  of his agreement and his written authority and he didnt 
follow its procedures. 
So, Lighthouse  cannot be liable for the financial losses Mr G incurred. 
Firm B is listed  on the relevant paperwork as the adviser,  so Mr W cannot have been 
the driving force behind the recommendation. 
Firm Bs explanation as to what happened  doesnt add up and the only logical 
explanation is that it was in fact the party  providing  advice  and should  be fully 
responsible for compensating Mr G.  
Because agreement  couldnt be reached the case has been passed back  to me for review.  
My findings
I must decide whether we can consider a complaint on the basis  of the jurisdiction rules that 
apply. Having done so, I have concluded the complaint is one we can consider. So, I have 
also considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances in terms of the merits of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position  
and I am grateful  to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  
in their entirety. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Lighthouse has referenced a decision issued on a different  complaint that it feels is at odds 
with the conclusions Ive reached. Each complaint is decided  on its own individual  facts, but I 
understand the importance of consistency  and Ive taken that complaint  into account. Having 
Ref: DRN22733946done so, I remain  of the view that my provisional findings are right under the circumstances 
of this complained.  In summary I found that:
Mr W advised Mr G to switch his existing pension  arrangements  to a SIPP  to invest 
in Harlequin. 
When providing that advice he was acting  as an AR of Lighthouse. 
Even if the advice  to invest in Harlequin wasnt business for which  Lighthouse had 
accepted responsibility the pension switch advice   to which the Harlequin  advice  is 
intrinsically linked  was, so we can consider the entire  complaint against  Lighthouse. 
Mr W didnt  follow the processes and procedures Lighthouse had in place but this, in 
itself, doesnt  mean that Lighthouse isnt responsible for the business complained 
about. 
The advice for Mr G to switch his existing  pension  arrangements  to a SIPP in order  to 
invest in Harlequin  wasnt suitable. 
There was another  adviser involved but given  my findings in respect of what Mr W 
did and the advice he provided it was reasonable for Lighthouse to pay 50% of the 
compensation. 
As above, my provisional findings are attached and form part of this decision. 
Lighthouses submissions focus on its responsibility  for the acts that are the subject  of this 
complaint. For the sake of completeness,  Ive also reconsidered my findings on what  Mr W 
did and the capacity in which he did it. 
There is limited  documentation but with what we do have,  taking  into account the sequence 
of events and the testimony provided, Im satisfied that I can fairly reach a view on what  
most likely happened.  
In early 2012 Mr G approached his existing Lighthouse adviser  Mr W  seeking investment 
advice. He mentioned  that having sorted things out with his OPS he wanted to get back to 
wider investment advice  which had been discussed  a couple of years  earlier  when Mr W 
became his adviser. Mr Gs pensions  were referenced in those discussions as highlighted in 
the correspondence quoted in the background to this complaint.  
Mr W later confirmed by email that he would call the next day. 
The next correspondence that we have is the email  from Mr G, saying: 
Having given the Caribbean SIPP investment idea some thought,  wed like to find
out more details, particularly in respect of the range of possible returns  and risk.
Would going over to Essex be the best way to do that? If so, should  we suggest an 
afternoon when we could  make the trip?
I think it is reasonable to conclude  that between Mr G contacting Mr W to ask for investment 
advice and his email saying he would like more details about  Harlequin,  they had a meeting 
during which  they discussed utilising Mr Gs pension to invest in Harlequin. Its clear from the 
email that the investment was to be made  through a pension. Taking into account  Mr G and 
Ref: DRN22733947Mr Ws ongoing advisory relationship, the sequence of events and the submissions made,  I 
think it is more likely  than not that Mr W recommended that Mr G switch his pensions  to a 
SIPP in order to invest in Harlequin.
This advice  came about through Mr Gs advisory  relationship with Mr W in his capacity as an 
AR of Lighthouse. And, I think it was in this capacity he gave advice. 
Lighthouse has argued that even if Mr W did advise  Mr G, it isnt responsible for that advice. 
It says that Mr W wasnt permitted to advise on Harlequin, the business  wasnt  put through 
Lighthouse and its processes werent followed. 
To be clear, in my provisional decision I found  that even if Mr W wasnt permitted to advise 
on Harlequin, Lighthouse was still responsible for the advice complained  about  because the 
linked pension switch  advice was business for which it had accepted  responsibility.  Its well 
established through decisions  issued  by this service and the relevant case law that in such  
instances where, part of the advice is business for which  the principal accepted responsibility 
and part isnt (or is unregulated) and they are inextricably linked, the outcome  shouldnt be 
that the principal  isnt responsible. Instead,  the right outcome is that the principal should be 
responsible for the transaction as a whole including any elements which  werent business for 
which it had accepted responsibility  or that were unregulated. 
Ive reviewed the information Lighthouse  referenced in response to my provisional decision 
about its processes  for advice on unregulated esoteric investments. Based on this, it 
appears that the AR Mr W worked for was permitted to give advice on such  investments, 
including UCISs such  as Harlequin.  But, there were requirements in place that had to be 
fulfilled before advice was given in respect of any such  investments. The investment had to 
be pre-approved by Lighthouse and appropriate  due diligence undertaken before any advice  
could be given in respect of unregulated  esoteric  investments. Each  instance  of advice in 
respect of any approved  unregulated esoteric investment also had to be checked  by 
Lighthouse. 
I dont think I need  to make a finding as to whether  or not this means that the Harlequin 
advice was advice  for which Lighthouse didnt accept responsibility in this case. This is 
because I think its responsible for the advice complained about either way for the reasons 
set out above  and in my provisional  decision. 
There are other processes that Mr W didnt follow, relevant to the pension  switch advice. For 
example, he didnt complete the appropriate paperwork, the advice wasnt  submitted to 
Lighthouse for checking and the business  wasnt reported to it. In my view these 
requirements are standards to be met in respect of how an AR should go about  undertaking 
business on behalf of Lighthouse rather than effective restrictions  on the type of business 
they can undertake.  
Failure to follow such processes doesnt  mean that Lighthouse isnt responsible for the 
advice complained about. As quoted in my provisional decision, in Anderson v Sense 
Network [2018] EWHC 2834,  in the High Court  decision that was later upheld  by the Court of 
Appeal, the judge said that:
139. I  agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate  that it is appropriate to 
take a broad approach  when seeking to identify  the "business for which he has 
accepted responsibility".  The fact that there may not be actual authority for a 
particular transaction, for example  because  of breach of an obligation  not to 
Ref: DRN22733948offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or because  there was no authority to advise 
on a related  transaction (TenetConnect), or because certain duties needed to 
be fulfilled before  a product was offered,  does not mean  that the transaction  in 
question falls outside the scope  of the relevant "business" for which 
responsibility is taken. Equally, the approach must  not be so broad that it becomes 
divorced from the terms of the very AR agreement  relied upon  in support of the case 
that the principal  has accepted responsibility  for the business in question.
So, I remain  of the view that Mr Ws failure to follow certain procedures doesnt mean that 
this wasnt business  for which Lighthouse accepted responsibility and Im satisfied  that we 
can consider Mr Gs complaint against  Lighthouse. 
Merits of the complaint 
Neither party made any submissions in respect  of my findings on the suitability of the advice 
and my findings in respect of this remain as set out in my provisional decision. I dont think 
that the advice  to switch his existing pension arrangements  to a SIPP in order to invest  in 
Harlequin was suitable  for Mr G. 
The involvement of Firm B
Mr W was acting as Mr Gs investment adviser.  He was approached by Mr G for advice. I 
found that Mr W recommended that Mr G utilise his pension to invest in Harlequin by 
switching to a SIPP and this happened  before  Firm Bs involvement.
Mr W arranged  and attended  the meeting during which the SIPP application was completed. 
He completed the identification verification in relation to the application in his capacity as AR 
of Lighthouse. I think he was still involved in the process as Mr Gs adviser  not in a personal 
capacity and Mr Gs submissions support this view. 
The evidence points  to Mr W being  involved  in the transaction  complained about from the 
outset and through until the end. He put Mr G on this path and assisted throughout. Firm B 
was appointed as adviser  on Mr Gs ceding schemes, was listed as the adviser  on the SIPP  
application and submitted  the paperwork to the SIPP provider. It is not clear why this 
happened, but I dont  think  this means  that Mr W doesnt bear responsibility for what 
happened particularly  when taking into account the sequence of events. 
Mr G says he understood Mr W of Lighthouse to be acting as his adviser  throughout and that 
he went ahead because  he respected and trusted  Mr W and that he took comfort  in him 
working for a large financial advice firm. If Mr W had given Mr G suitable advice when he 
approached him in early 2012,  then I think Mr G would have listened to this and I dont think 
he would  have ended up in a SIPP invested in Harlequin.
Taking into account Mr W of Lighthouses role in Mr Gs pensions ending up in a SIPP
invested in Harlequin, I still think it is fair and reasonable  for Lighthouse to bear responsibility 
for the losses he suffered and that it should pay 50% of the loss established  below.
Lighthouse needs to fairly compensate Mr G for the losses he has suffered as a result  of the 
unsuitable advice  he received. In addition to the financial loss Mr G suffered, I think that the 
loss of such a significant  amount of his personal pension provision would have caused him a 
considerable amount of distress and worry. This is a very substantial  amount of money to 
lose from a pension and this loss would have  been a cause for concern  to Mr G in terms of 
Ref: DRN22733949his retirement planning.  Lighthouse should  compensate Mr G for the impact  this has had in 
addition to the financial losses he has suffered.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr G should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr G would have  invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr G's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
What should Lighthouse do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, Lighthouse must:
Compare the performance of Mr G's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Lighthouse should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Lighthouse should pay into Mr G's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Lighthouse is unable to pay the total amount into Mr G's pension  plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr G's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr G would 
have been able to take a tax-free  lump sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr G £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused  by the loss of a 
significant portion  of his personal pension  provision.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Lighthouse deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr G how much has been  taken off. Lighthouse should give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  status benchmark from (start to (end additional 
Ref: DRN227339410name date) date) interest
The monies 
transferred  
into the 
SIPPstill existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Lighthouse should  take ownership  of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Lighthouse is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value  should  be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose  of calculation. Lighthouse may require that Mr G provides an 
undertaking to pay Lighthouse 50% of any amount he may receive from the investment in 
the future.  That undertaking must  allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Lighthouse will need  to meet  any costs in drawing 
up the undertaking.
Lighthouse is paying only 50% of the compensation.  The other half is due to be paid by Firm 
B. Because of this, it may be difficult to share the purchase of the investment or an 
undertaking. It is highly  unlikely  that Mr G will receive any benefits from the investment given 
the state of Harlequin. Under the circumstances, I think a reasonable alternative would be to 
just give the investment a nil value for the purpose  of the calculation  and forego the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Lighthouse 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year  fixed-rate bonds  as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
Ref: DRN227339411calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Lighthouse totals  all those  payments and deducts  that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that a suitable risk profile for Mr G was in between,  in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives.  So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr G into that position.  It does not mean  that Mr G 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr G could have obtained from investments suited to 
his objective and risk attitude.
SIPP fees
If Mr G is unable to close  his SIPP once  compensation has been paid (which  is possible due 
to the ongoing uncertainty  with Harlequin),  Lighthouse should pay an amount into the SIPP  
equivalent to 50% of five years worth of the fees (based on the most  recent  years  fees)  that 
will be payable  on the SIPP. I say this because Mr G would not be in the SIPP but for 
Lighthouses unsuitable advice. So, it would not be fair for him to have to pay fees to keep it 
open. And I am satisfied five years  will allow sufficient time for things to be sorted out with 
the Harlequin, and the SIPP to be closed.
Ref: DRN227339412My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Lighthouse Advisory  Services  Limited should pay 
to Mr G 50% of the amount calculated as set out above, excluding the payment for distress  
and inconvenience  which it should pay in full.
Lighthouse Advisory  Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr G in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 August 2021.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN227339413MY PROVISIONAL  FINDINGS
I must decide whether  we can consider a complaint on the basis of the jurisdiction rules  that
apply. Having done so, I have concluded the complaint is one we can consider. So, I have
also considered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances in terms of the merits of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
The parties  to this complaint have provided  detailed submissions to support their position
and I am grateful to them  for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions
in their entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on
what I consider  to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not
to address every point raised  in detail, but to set out my findings, on what  I consider to be
the main points, and reasons for reaching  them.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other  words, what  I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
Jurisdiction considerations
FSMA section  22 (Regulated Activities)  provides that:
(1)An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a specified 
kind which  is carried on by way of business and 
(a)relates to an investment of a specified kind; or
(b)in the case of an activity of a kind which  is also specified for the purposes of this 
paragraph, is carried  on in relation to property of any kind.
DISP 2.3.1R says:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under  the Compulsory  Jurisdiction if it relates to
an act or omission by a firm in carrying  on one or more of the following activities:
(1)regulated activities  (other  than auction regulation  bidding); 
or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried  on by the firm in connection with
them.
And
DISP 2.3.3G, which is guidance for the interpretation of our compulsory jurisdiction, says:
Complaints about acts or omissions include  those in respect of activities for which
the firm
is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which
the firm has accepted responsibility).
Ref: DRN227339414Under section  39(3) of FSMA:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in
carrying on the business for which  he has accepted responsibility.
Exemption of ARs
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) says under Article 19, The general
prohibition, that:
(1)No person may carry on a regulated  activity  in the United Kingdom, or purport  to do so, 
unless he is  
(a)an authorised person;  or
(b)an exempt person.
(2)The prohibition is referred to in this Act as the general  prohibition.
Article 39 of FSMA sets out the exemption of ARs to the above, in so far as relevant, it says:
(1)If a person (other than an authorised  person)-
(a)is a party to a contract with an authorised person (his principal) which 
(i)permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii)complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b)is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  his 
principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted
responsibility.
The business  for which  an AR can be exempt is set out in FSMA 2000 (Appointed
Representatives) Regulations 2001 (2001 No. 1217) this includes advising on investments
and arranging  deals  in investments.
Lighthouse confirmed that Mr W was authorised to advise on personal pensions including
SIPPs during his tenure  as adviser  for its AR.
For me to conclude that this is a complaint that we can consider I need to consider three
questions:
1.What are the acts that are the subject of this complaint?
2.Were the acts about  which  Mr G complains done in the carrying  on of a regulated activity, or 
an ancillary activity  carried on in connection  with a regulated  activity?
3.Were those  acts the acts of the principal firm, Lighthouse?
What are the acts that are the subject of this complaint?
Mr G set out his complaint  and the background  to it, amongst other things he set out that:
Ref: DRN227339415My complaint is that in 2012,  [Mr Ws full name], an appointed  representative of
Lighthouse Temple introduced me to an investment opportunity in Harlequin Property
which he considered to be suitable for the investment of my Pension monies. An
investment of £107,971 which has fallen to £1.
The adviser  was aware that at the time I was aged 58 and was hoping  to retire within
a reasonable time after reaching  60.
I was led to understand that the investment was low risk and I cannot  believe that a
recommendation to invest in something where the value  has been wiped  out
completely can reasonably  be classed  as low risk.
Because of this investment I had to delay  my retirement to 2017,  and also the
reduction in value precluded me from applying  for Individual Protection.
In addition, Lighthouse  Temple failed to provide any financial advice  for the period
following the investment, either for this investment or a review of other investments.
And
[Mr Ws first name] recognised that pensions  were  a very important aspect of my financial 
planning as I was envisaging  retiring  within a relatively  short timescale of my meeting  with him 
in 2010. As it transpired, I retired  from full-time  employment  in July 2017.
I found that through these dealings I had built up a certain respect and trust for 
[Mr Ws first name].
And
Following discussions  about  my pension, [Mr Ws first name]  introduced us to the
idea of transferring part of my pension  savings into a SIPP invested in Harlequin
Property, specifically a villa in the Caribbean that would be part of a hotel complex
and operated by the hotel. The financial analysis  provided to me showed a significant
return on the investment and a good growth in the value  of the villa. There would be
a guaranteed income for the first few years, starting in 2016 at the latest, irrespective
of how the hotel  did, recognising that it can take a while  for a hotel to reach  its
expected occupancy rates.
Given that the introduction to this investment  opportunity was being  made  by [Mr Ws
first name] with whom  I had built up a relationship  with since 2010  and had learnt to
trust and he was also an appointed representative of Lighthouse  Temple,  a large
Financial Advisory  firm, I concluded that this was worth  following up.
Based on this and the other submissions made I think that the acts that are the subject of
this complaint include:
The pension  switch advice
The advice in relation to Harlequin
The facilitation of both the switches and the subsequent investment
Were the acts about which  Mr G complains  done  in the carrying on of a regulated
activity, or an ancillary  activity carried on in connection with a regulated  activity?
Regulated activities  are set out in Part II of The Financial Services  and Markets  Act 2000
(Regulated Activities) Order  2001 (the RAO). They include:
Ref: DRN227339416Advising on investments  where the advice  relates  to buying, selling, subscribing for or 
underwriting a particular investment which  is a security or a contractually based investment  
(article 53 RAO).
Arranging deals in investments  for another  personto  buy, sell, subscribe  for or underwrite a 
particular investment  which is a security or relevant investment (article 25 RAO).
There is limited paperwork  from the point  of sale. It is clear that the process  followed was not
a usual  advice process Mr G says that Mr W was advising him throughout. But the evidence is 
contradictory, it is apparent that Mr W of Lighthouse was acting as Mr Gs financial adviser  for a 
number of years and that initially (in 2010) his pension formed part of the review. No action appears to 
have been taken at that point and the focus appears to have moved  to sorting out Mr Gs OPS. Then 
around two years later Mr G contacted  Mr W to arrange  to get advice and a meeting was arranged.  
After this, Mr G contacted Mr W of Lighthouse to get more information about  Harlequin.  Mr W then 
arranged to take Mr G to the Harlequin offices. Mr W then arranged a meeting between himself  Mr G 
and Firm B, during  this meeting the SIPP application form was signed. Firm B was listed as the 
adviser. It is not clear  why Mr W involved Firm B in the process.  
Firm B has told us that Mr W was planning on leaving the profession and he passed on his clients to it 
as part of an arrangement they reached. It says that Mr W was advising Mr G and that it simply 
attended the meeting to introduce  itself to Mr G as it would be taking over from Mr W.
I dont know why Mr W was passing his clients to Firm B, even  if he was leaving the market, I expect 
normal practice would be for his clients to be passed on to another  Lighthouse adviser.  Mr G says 
that it was Mr W, of Lighthouse, who advised him that Harlequin was a suitable investment for his 
pension. Also, that in the years he dealt with Mr W of Lighthouse, he came to respect and trust him. 
He says that he followed  the advice  because he trusted and respected Mr G in addition to him being 
an AR of a large financial  advice firm (Lighthouse). Mr G says that he was confused when he 
reviewed the paperwork because it listed Firm B as the adviser when it was Mr W of Lighthouse who 
advised him in respect of his pension. He did not recall having any contact  with Firm B.
Mr G has provided us with email correspondence  between  him and Mr W. I have set this out
in detail in the background to this complaint. Based on this, I think Mr W was acting as his
adviser in relation to Mr Gs pension. The evidence  points  to Mr W having acted  as Mr Gs
investment adviser for a couple of years prior to the acts complained about.
In November 2010, Mr W wrote to Mr G and said in relation to his pension:
I also enclose [Mr Gs first name] pension  valuation  which  I have now copied,
together with information on the fund you are currently invested  in, I think  youll both
agree, whilst it has done  ok, its rather volatile, bearing in mind the time left until
retirement
I have not seen any evidence that further action was taken in relation to that pension until 2012 after 
Mr G emailed Mr W saying:
Last month, I finally managed to have the money transferred from the [name of
scheme] pension scheme to the [name of the existing OPS]  pension scheme, with
the deferred pension  being  as per the original quote of over a year ago, plus an uplift
that would have  been  due if the transfer had been made in early  2011.  Thanks for
your help in achieving  this.
Looking back to when  we first met, you were going to be looking at the various
places where  we have money and come up with advice with what  to do with
them [my emphasis]. I recognise that the pension transfer matter became a real
focus but we ought to get back  to the original matter. How should we proceed with this?
Mr W said in response that he would  call Mr G. After this there is a gap in documentary
Ref: DRN227339417evidence until the end of March, when Mr G emailed Mr W at his Lighthouse email address
saying:
Having given the Caribbean  SIPP investment idea some thought, wed like to find
out more details, particularly in respect of the range of possible returns and risk.
Would going over to Essex  be the best way to do that?  If so, should  we suggest an
afternoon when we could make the trip?
I think  it is reasonable  to conclude that between Mr G contacting Mr W to ask for investment advice 
and his email saying  he would like more details  about the Harlequin, they had a meeting during which 
they discussed utilising Mr Gs pension to invest in Harlequin. Taking  into account Mr G and Mr Ws 
ongoing advisory  relationship, the sequence of events and the
submissions made, I think  it is more  likely than not that Mr W recommended that Mr G switch his 
pension to a SIPP in order to invest in Harlequin.
Mr W appears to have later gone on to arrange a meeting with representatives  of Harlequin
after Mr G had said he was interested and wanted to get more information  about  the
recommended investment. Then he arranged a meeting  in August,  this was held between
Mr G, Mr W and Firm B. During  that meeting the SIPP  application was signed, the intended
investment was listed as Harlequin. The identification verification certificate was signed by
Mr W as senior  practice executive of Lighthouse Financial Advice  Limited (FRN  195199).
So, whilst there is some dispute as to what happened and involvement  from other parties, I
think that Mr W undertook the regulated activities of advising on investments and arranging
deals in investments in relation  to the acts that are the subject of this complaint.
Having concluded  that the acts that are the subject of the complaint were carried  on in
connection with a regulated  activity, I have gone on to consider if those acts were acts for
which Lighthouse was responsible.
Were those acts the acts of the principal firm, Lighthouse?
As set out above, DISP  2.3.3G says:
Complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which  the
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for
which the firmhas accepted responsibility).
There are two parts to this question  and the answer  needs to be yes to both in order for me
to conclude Lighthouse was responsible for Mr Ws actions:
1.Was Mr W acting on behalf  of Lighthouse when  the acts complained about happened?
2.And if Mr W was acting on behalf of Lighthouse, was it business  Lighthouse had accepted 
responsibility for?
There are multiple acts that form part of Mr Gs complaint. It is clear that Mr G had an
ongoing advisory  relationship with Mr W of Lighthouse. The letter  Mr W issued after his initial
financial review meeting  was on Lighthouse stationery and confirmed that Mr Gs pension
formed part of their discussions.
In 2012 Mr G contacted Mr W at his Lighthouse  email address to ask for further investment
advice and discussions were arranged  with him in that capacity during  which Harlequin was
most likely recommended as a suitable investment for his pension.  Mr G then emailed Mr W
at Lighthouse to confirm that he would  like to find out more about  Harlequin.
After this some  correspondence was exchanged via Mr Ws email  address in relation to
Ref: DRN227339418arranging a meeting with Harlequin.
Then, in August, there was a subsequent meeting when  the SIPP application was signed 
Mr W as AR of Lighthouse completed Mr Gs identification verification for this. Overall, I do
think it is most likely Mr W was acting in his capacity as AR of Lighthouse in relation to the
events complained about.
Based on the available information, it was only in his capacity as AR of Lighthouse that Mr W
could undertake regulated  activities and I have found that Mr W did undertake regulated
activities in relation  to the complaint raised.
Lighthouse has accepted that it authorised  Mr W to undertake investment business,
including advising on personal pension plans  and SIPPs. So, I think that the pension switch
advice  I have found Mr W of Lighthouse gave Mr G in early  2012  was business  for which
it accepted responsibility. Lighthouse says that Mr W was not permitted advise on
unregulated investments, I have not seen evidence  of this but  even if such  a restriction did
apply  I think  that we could still consider the advice  as a whole. Because  I think the advice
to switch to the SIPP is business for which  Lighthouse had accepted responsibility.
In relation to situations where  only part of the advice  is regulated, there has been useful
commentary from the courts. In TenetConnect Services  Limited v Financial  Ombudsman and
another [2018] EWHC 459 (admin) said:
58. This is not a case where the advice  to sell arose from the need to dispose
an underperforming or risky asset, whereafter the IFA would look for something
better. It is not simply that the advice was given at the same  time, or that the trades
took place so closely in time. That helps to evidence  that the advice to buy was what
led to the advice to sell. The advice to sell was given  so that the alternative
unregulated investments  could be made; they were compared, and their advantages
persuaded [names of claimants] to accept the advice  to sell. The advice, put simply
was that, because  they could do better in unregulated investments, they should sell
the specified investments. The advice on unregulated  investment justified the advice
on the specified investments, and in that way, became  part of the regulated advice.
The Ombudsman was bound  to conclude that they were part and parcel  of the same
advice. I conclude  that the whole advice  was regulated activity, and that the
Ombudsman had jurisdiction.
59.  I do not think that the Ombudsmans description of the advice to buy or the
"purchase" transactions themselves as "ancillary" to the advice to sell is accurate.
Neither aspect of the advice was in reality ancillary here; both were  the significant
components of the single stream of advice; the regulated  advice was motivated by
the proposals  for unregulated investment. The FSMA intended  that regulated activity,
and the Ombudsmans jurisdiction should be part of a financial service consumers
protection. The legislative provisions should be construed so that, if part of what is
done as a single activity is regulated, the whole is regulated rather than the other way
round. Otherwise, the regulated  part loses the protection which the FSMA  requires
that it should  have. If, to accord that protection, aspects which by themselves  would
not be regulated are brought into the protective scope of regulation  and the
Ombudsmans jurisdiction,  those giving  advice will have  to make sure that their
regulated and unregulated  activities  are separated, rather than using the unregulated
to escape the consequences  of intermingling them with the regulated.
Mr W did not follow the procedures set out by Lighthouse, but I do not think that that stops
Lighthouse from being responsible for these activities.
In Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834, in the High Court  decision that was later
upheld by the Court of Appeal, the judge said that:
Ref: DRN227339419139. I  agree with the Claimants that the authorities  indicate that it is appropriate
to take a broad approach when  seeking to identify the "business for which  he has
accepted responsibility".  The fact that there may not be actual authority  for a
particular transaction, for example because  of breach of an obligation  not to offer an
inducement (Ovcharenko), or because there was no authority  to advise  on a related
transaction (TenetConnect), or because certain duties  needed to be fulfilled before  a
product was offered,  does not mean that the transaction in question  falls outside the
scope of the relevant "business" for which  responsibility  is taken. Equally, the
approach must not be so broad that it becomes divorced from the terms of the very
AR agreement relied upon in support of the case that the principal has accepted
responsibility for the business in question.
So, I think that Lighthouse is responsible  for the acts that are the subject of the complaint.
I have found that Mr W undertook a number of regulated activities in relation to the acts
complained about and that Lighthouse is responsible for those activities  so, I have gone on
to consider the merits of complaint.
Provisional findings  on the merits of the complaint
It is my role, in relation  to any complaint that is within my jurisdiction, to fairly and reasonably
decide if the business has done anything  wrong  in respect of the individual  circumstances of
the complaint made  and  if I find that the business  has done something wrong  award
compensation for any material  loss or distress and inconvenience suffered by the
complainant as a result of this.
Above I set out my findings  on whether  the acts about  which Mr G complains were done in
the carrying  on of a regulated  activity  and Lighthouses responsibility for those activities. In
doing this, I set out what  I think Mr W did in relation to the activities complained about, so I
have not repeated  this in relation to the merits of the complaint.
Suitability of the advice
Having found that Lighthouse advised Mr G on the switch  and subsequent  investment, we
can consider  that advice  and Lighthouse is responsible for that advice; I have gone on to
consider what  Mr W ought to have done  and the suitability  of the advice in question.
Lighthouse was required to follow the relevant  rules set out by the regulator. All of this needs
to be considered through the lens, so to speak, of the overarching principles for businesses
 in particular, principles  1 (integrity), 2 (due skill, care and diligence), 6 (customers
interests) and 9 (reasonable  care).
The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (COBS) 9.2.1  required Lighthouse to gather  the
necessary information about Mr Gs knowledge and experience relevant  to the specific type
of designated investment, her financial  situation and investment objectives. This was to
enable it to make a recommendation  which  was suitable for Mr G.
COBS 9.2.2 required  Lighthouse to gather enough information to ensure that the
recommendation; met his objectives,  that he could bear the risks involved and had sufficient
knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
So, amongst other things,  to fulfil its duties Lighthouse had to know its client,  act in his best
interests and give suitable advice.
Given the information  available, it is not clear that Lighthouse did enough  to know its client in
this instance. I think it knew his basic circumstances, but I am not persuaded that it did
Ref: DRN227339420enough to establish that he could bear the risks involved or that he had sufficient knowledge
and experience to understand the risks involved.
Mr W, when acting for Lighthouse, ought to have considered the suitability of the switches to
the SIPP  and the intended investments when giving  advice to Mr G.
This view is reflected by an alert issued  by the FCA in 2013 called  Advising on pension
transfers with a view to investing pension  monies  into unregulated products through a SIPP.
This said, amongst other things, that:
The financial adviser does not give advice on the unregulated investment, and
says it is only providing  advice on a SIPP  capable of holding the unregulated
investment. Sometimes  the regulated financial adviser  also assists the customer  to
unlock monies held in other investments (e.g. other pension arrangements) so that
the customer  is able to invest in the unregulated investment.
Financial advisers using  this advice model  are under the mistaken impression that
this process means  they do not have to consider  the unregulated investment as part
of their advice  to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability
of the SIPP in the abstract.  This is incorrect.
It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer seeks
advice on a pension  transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice
on the pension transfer must take account of the overall investment strategy  the
customer is contemplating.
I acknowledge that this alert came after Lighthouses  recommendation to Mr G, but I dont
think this means that it is not relevant  to this complaint. I say this because the alert was a
reminder of existing  obligations under  the COBS  rules   it did not introduce a new set of
obligations.
At the time of the advice, Mr G was 58 years old and was employed. He had said that he
was considering retiring  soon after reaching age 60. Mr G held other investments and a civil
service pension  scheme. However, no details  of the investments had been provided  or
appear to have been  considered at that time. Mr G provided  details of his ceding schemes
as at 21 August  2012. One pension was invested in managed  funds with annual
management charges of 0.55% and 0.75%  respectively. The other pension plan was
invested in a global equities fund with a fund charge of 0.13%.
The purpose  of Mr Gs pension was to provide him with an income in retirement. At the time
of the advice  Mr G was around  58 years old and, based on his submissions, he was
planning on retiring within two years. I have not seen any evidence that Mr G was a high-risk
or experienced investor or that he could afford to risk losing a significant amount of his
personal pension provision.  I do not think he approached Mr W looking to invest  in high-risk
esoteric investments.  And I do not think such investments were suitable for Mr G, at that
time it would have been suitable to reduce the risk and volatility  his personal pensions were exposed 
to not increase it. When Mr W was initially appointed  as Mr Gs investment adviser,
he said:
I also enclose [Mr Gs first name]  pension valuation which I have now copied,
together with information on the fund you are currently invested  in, I think  youll both
agree, whilst it has done  ok, its rather volatile, bearing in mind the time left until
retirement.
I think  mainstream low-cost  cautious to medium  risk managed funds  would have been
suitable for Mr G. A suitable  option would most likely have been available via his then
existing pensions and that is what Mr W of Lighthouse ought to have recommended to Mr G.
Ref: DRN227339421Alternatively, Mr G could  have  switched  to a low-cost  alternative such  as a stakeholder.
It has not been suggested that Mr G was an insistent client or that he was otherwise likely to
disregard suitable advice   but, for the sake of completeness, I have considered what would
have happened had suitable advice been  given.  I think Mr G was a retail  client and most
likely reliant  on Lighthouses advice, I am not persuaded he was likely  to ignore suitable
advice from his financial  adviser.
The involvement of other parties
There were  other regulated  parties  involved in the transaction. In particular, Firm B (which
was appointed  to the pensions  which  were switched and was listed on the SIPP application
form) and the SIPP provider (which accepted the investment and administered the pension).
I have considered their roles  when deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome and just
redress would be in this complaint.
Mr W was acting as Mr Gs investment adviser. He was approached by Mr G for advice. I
found that Mr W recommended that Mr G utilise his pension to invest  in Harlequin by
switching to a SIPP.
After Firm B was appointed as adviser  to the pensions  that were switched to the SIPP. Mr W
organised and attended the meeting during which the SIPP application was completed.  He
completed the identification  verification in relation to the application. Once the application
was submitted Mr W engaged with the provider  about the switch  albeit  that
correspondence came  from his personal  email address.
The evidence  points to Mr W being involved in the transaction  complained about  from the
outset and through  until the end. He put Mr G on this path and assisted throughout. He
appears to have been  the driving  force throughout  the transaction, so to speak. Firm B was
appointed as adviser on Mr Gs ceding schemes, was listed  as the adviser on the SIPP
application and submitted the paperwork to the SIPP provider. As I have said, it is not clear
why this happened. Mr W was allowed  to give investment advice and could have
recommended a suitable pension to Mr G. It is possible  that he wanted to keep this business
off Lighthouses  books.
Mr G says he understood Mr W of Lighthouse to be acting as his adviser  throughout and that
he went ahead because he respected and trusted Mr W and that he took comfort in him
working for a large  financial  advice firm. If Mr W had given Mr G suitable advice when he
approached him in early  2012,  then I think Mr G would have listened to this and I dont think
he would have ended  up in a SIPP invested in Harlequin.
Taking into account Mr W of Lighthouses role in Mr Gs pensions ending  up in a SIPP
invested in Harlequin, I think it is fair and reasonable  for Lighthouse to bear responsibility  for
the losses  he suffered and that it should pay 50% of the loss established below.
Lighthouse has said additional contributions were made after Mr W stopped being  its AR.
Gross contributions £5,500 and £500 on 10 September 2012 and 13 March 2013
respectively. So, the £5,500 contribution was made around the time of the Harlequin
investment when Mr W was an AR of Lighthouse. The later contribution was made after he
stopped being an AR of Lighthouse, but I think it stems from activities Mr W undertook when
he was in that if Mr W had been given suitable advice  Mr G would not have  ended up in a
SIPP.
Lighthouse needs to fairly compensate Mr G for the losses he has suffered as a result of the
unsuitable advice he received. In addition  to the financial loss Mr G suffered, I think  that the
loss of such  a significant amount of his personal pension provision would have caused him
Ref: DRN227339422considerable amount of distress and worry. This is a very substantial amount of money  to lose from a 
pension and this loss would  have  been a cause for concern to Mr G in terms of
his retirement planning. Lighthouse  should  compensate  Mr G for the impact this has had in
addition to the financial losses he has suffered.
Ref: DRN2273394