K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that Caversham Finance Limited  (trading  as BrightHouse) 
mishandled her request to re-write her financial agreement when her circumstances 
changed.
background
Miss H has three hire purchase agreements with BrightHouse for items that her children 
use. Unfortunately Miss H was having some  health  difficulties and needed to have some 
inpatient hospital  treatment that would require  some recovery  time afterwards. This meant  
she would  have to cover additional childcare costs and she needed to reduce her outgoings  
to cover this extra expense.
In December  2018 Miss H approached  BrightHouse  about the cost of re-financing her 
account. During a phone call she was told by BrightHouse that her contracts  could be 
changed from weekly payments of £48 to a monthly  payment of £101. There was also a 
discussion about the length  of time the contracts would need to be extended by. Miss H 
was happy with the new terms  and conditions.
Miss H says she called  back to check that the new arrangement had been set up and was 
told that it had and that a Customer Accounts Adviser would come  to her house with the 
new contract to sign.
Miss H says that when the Customer Accounts Adviser came  to her home instead of 
providing the expected contract  they had demanded a payment of £200  from her and then 
threatened to take the items  away for failing to pay. She said she was left shaken and 
upset when the adviser left.
Miss H says she then called BrightHouse to complain and ask about the terms that had 
been agreed but was told that there were no notes about the earlier  agreement  on her 
account. Miss H says she was told that the terms for repayment  would  need  to be higher 
than the£101  shed been told. She says she was told if she wanted to do a re-write they 
would need to go through her income  and expenditure again which she declined. 
BrightHouse said the Customer Accounts  Adviser didnt attend Miss Hs home  to collect  
money but went to help her set up an extension to two of her agreements  and re-write a 
third. When  the adviser said the cost would be £163  per month  Miss H had declined  the 
account restructure and contacted Customer Relations. It said there hadnt been a 
demand of £200  made  to Miss H but when shed declined the restructure other  options  
were discussed with her which would have included handing the items back.
Miss H says she brought her account  up to date as she didnt want  to lose the items. She 
said she didnt go ahead  with the restructuring of her account as the payments werent 
much different to what shed been paying  so there was no advantage  in extending the 
terms.
Miss H complained to BrightHouse. BrightHouse said it accepted Miss H had been  given  
the wrong information about the monthly  payments when shed first called. It said it wasnt  
able to provide  a reasonable explanation as to why shed been  mis-advised about the 
amounts she would need to repay if her account was re-written. It apologised and said the 
Ref: DRN23841862service Miss H had received wasnt at the standard BrightHouse aimed to achieve.  It 
upheld her complaint  and sent a cheque  for £40 compensation to Miss H.
Miss H was unhappy at BrightHouses  response and complained  to this service. Miss H said 
she thought the compensation was too little for the distress and inconvenience that had 
been caused by being given the wrong  information.
BrightHouse said its offer of £40 compensation was fair and reasonable as it was a 
minor error  that had a short-lived impact  on Miss H as it had quickly been  corrected.  It 
said that Miss H had brought her account up to date during December and hadnt  
proceeded to rewrite her account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss Hs complaint should  be upheld. She said 
she thought the level of compensation was fair as Miss H hadnt  signed any new 
agreements and this was a case of poor customer service and misinformation.
Miss H disagreed with our investigators  view.  She said she was a vulnerable  adult who 
BrightHouse had failed  to treat properly. It hadnt told her about the error over the 
calculation of the repayments and had left her very distressed as a result. She has said that 
she felt BrightHouse writing off one of her agreements  would  be adequate compensation.
As the parties  cant agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional  
decision along the following lines. It was agreed by BrightHouse that Miss H 
hadnt received the level of service she could  reasonably have expected from it. It 
wasnt able to explain why Miss H had been given the repayment  figure  of £101  
per month instead of £163 which was the true cost.
Id seen that the purpose of the Customer Accounts Adviser attending  Miss Hs home was 
to restructure  the agreements though this hadnt  happen. BrightHouse agreed  other  
options wouldve  been raised  though didnt agree there was a demand  for £200. However 
Id seen from an earlier response from BrightHouse that £200  was raised as the 
repayment figure though this was then reduced  to £163 by the Customer Accounts  Adviser  
during their visit. So it sees £200  was raised at some point while the agent  visited  Miss H.
I didnt know what was exactly said to Miss H at her home though I accepted it had left her 
shaken and upset. She was expecting to have her account restructured so that she could 
reduce her repayments  but instead  found the amount she was expecting to pay had 
increased by over £60pm. This meant  she couldnt  afford the expected childcare costs that 
would be incurred when  she went into hospital.
I thought it was possible that Miss H had misunderstood what  the Customer  Accounts 
Adviser said but I also thought that wasnt surprising considering the disappointment  and 
distress caused by discovering the amount of the repayment she thought  would be put in 
place had significantly increased. This meant  she would have realised her plans to use the 
money saved from reducing her repayments  wouldnt be available  to pay for the additional 
childcare costs while she recuperated.
Miss H said she had to defer her medical  treatment until after she had finished paying off an 
agreement in the summer as this was the only realistic option  open to her. BrightHouse said 
this wasnt raised until after Miss H had complained to this service. It also said that had it 
handled her query correctly at the start the amount of repayments wouldve been quoted as
£163pm so Miss H wouldve still had to make the decision  about deferring. This meant 
the position Miss H had found herself  in wouldnt have changed.
Ref: DRN23841863Looking at the error and its impact  on Miss H I was satisfied that £40 compensation 
wasnt sufficient to cover the distress  and inconvenience caused  to her, even  if this 
error had been  quickly  rectified.
Miss H had thought  shed  found a solution to her need to reduce her expenditure but was 
later to discover this wasnt the case.  While I appreciated she wouldve had to make the 
difficult decision about deferring her treatment had BrightHouse  given  her the correct 
information at the start I thought this was made harder by having first thought  it was 
workable. I was also satisfied that its likely  the Customer  Accounts Adviser hadnt treated  
Miss Hs distress as sympathetically as they could have as it appeared they were unaware 
of the payment figures that had originally been provided to her and her expectation about 
the effects of restructuring her account.
So looking  at the evidence I was intending to partially uphold Miss Hs complaint. I wasnt 
intending to ask BrightHouse to write off one of her outstanding agreements but I was 
going to ask it to increase the amount of compensation to Miss H from £40 to £100.
BrightHouse has agreed with my provisional  view as has Miss H although she did feel the 
compensation was a little low. Miss H said she was pleased that her distress  and 
inconvenience at being given the wrong  information  had been  recognised.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked  again carefully at Miss Hs complaint I havent changed  my view.  I appreciate  
Miss H felt the compensation was a little low for how she was left feeling. But looking at the 
reasons Ive given  above, Im satisfied that a total compensation of £100  (so an extra £60) is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And Im partially upholding Miss Hs complaint.
I would like to wish Miss H a speedy recovery once she undertakes her hospital treatment.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Miss Hs complaint. Im asking Caversham 
Finance Limited  to pay Miss H an additional  amount of £60 making  the total amount of 
compensation £100 for the distress  and inconvenience caused by giving  her the wrong 
information
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2384186