K820x#14complaint
Miss E and her representative are unhappy that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  didnt 
tell them  that driving at night would negatively impact her score on her telematics  motor  
insurance policy. 
 
background
Miss Es representative says he took out the policy for her but wasnt  told by Admiral that 
late night driving  could affect  her driving score. As she has an evening job hes concerned  
this will have a negative  effect including when she renews the policy.  He wants  Admiral  to 
provide the policy  he says he bought  which didnt include taking account of night time 
driving.
Admiral apologised  in its final response  for any inconvenience caused  by not making  them 
aware that late night  driving between 20.00 and 05.00 hours can affect  the driving score.  It 
said when the policy was accepted on 12 July 2018  its agent  had failed to read the relevant 
scripting about the telematics device. That meant it hadnt made clear  that night  time driving  
was a factor it scores. But it couldnt  say whether this will affect the following years renewal 
as its rates  change regularly. In recognition of this error it had paid £50 compensation. Its 
unable to disregard late night driving. But two options are either for the policy to be cancelled  
with it waiving any cancellation fees or it can remove the telematics scheme from the policy 
waiving any additional  premium payable. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said:
Admiral accepts Miss Es representative wasnt read the relevant script about 
telematics device. Admiral has offered two options to resolve  things. Either the policy 
can be cancelled without  any cancellation  charge. Or the telematics scheme can be 
removed from the policy with no payment of any additional premium. Its also paid 
£50 compensation.  This is all fair and reasonable.
Miss Es representative declined  these options.  He says he found the right policy  
which monitors her driving and he wants her night time driving not to be considered.  
But Admiral says it cant do that based  on the policys terms and conditions. That 
doesnt seem unfair given that to ignore night time driving  seems to go against  the 
policy terms and conditions. 
Miss Es representative has also expressed concern that night time driving will 
negatively impact  her driving score  and increase her premiums  on renewal. But 
Admiral has confirmed  that on her current recorded driving, which  includes some  
night time driving, she will be on course for a discount. 
Overall Admiral has dealt with Miss E fairly and the options  its given  are reasonable. 
He will not be asking  Admiral to do any more.
Miss Es representative remains  unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review.  He says 
the telematics policy gives him peace of mind  by policing how his daughter, Miss E, drives. 
But when he took out the policy  he was informed there were  no night time driving 
restrictions. That was an error that was corrected weeks  after he paid for the policy.  Night  
time driving  will impact on Miss Es driving  score  and her premium on renewal will be higher. 
The terms and conditions  of the policy werent given to him when he bought the policy.
Ref: DRN29982222my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The use of a telematics box is designed to allow Miss Es driving  to be monitored,  to see 
how smoothly she drives, how far she travels  and at what time of day. Admirals terms and 
conditions which wouldve been  available  to Miss E also point  out consistent driving and 
avoidance of late night driving  could  earn her a better renewal price. 
I understand Miss Es representatives frustration that he was given incomplete information  
about the telematics scheme when he took out the policy for her. 
Admiral has accepted it made a mistake. And I agree with the adjudicator that it has put 
forward appropriate and reasonable options  to put things right. It suggested either  cancelling  
the policy without  any fees or removing the telematics scheme from the policy and waiving 
any extra  premium payable.
Miss Es representative says the telematics  policy gives him peace of mind  being able to 
police her driving and he wants it to continue but with Admiral disregarding any night time 
driving. But I dont  think that would be consistent with the aim and purpose of the telematics  
scheme or its actual  terms and conditions. I also dont think its reasonable to expect Admiral  
to disregard part of the data it collects under this scheme just in Miss Es case.
In any event driving at night time isnt guaranteed  to increase the premium offered in the 
future as its only one of many underwriting criteria that will be taken into account. And as 
Admiral has said its premiums are regularly reviewed and changed.  So it was reasonable for 
it to not be able to say exactly  what  effect any night time driving  may have on a renewal 
premium until the actual time of the renewal.
Admiral has paid Miss E £50 for any inconvenience  caused by its error which seems fair. I 
note Miss E is the policy  holder  and her representative isnt a named driver. We dont 
normally award compensation to a representative  for their inconvenience  or the time theyre  
engaged in trying to sort things out. Compensation is only normally awarded to the 
complainant and in this case thats  Miss E the policyholder.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think a payment of 
£50 compensation  for any distress and inconvenience Miss Es experienced is fair. 
Overall I dont think I can reasonably now require Admiral  to do anything  differently or pay or 
do anything more as Miss Es representative  would like. And I dont see any compelling  
reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2019.
Ref: DRN29982223Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2998222