K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer  Finance  Ltd (Creation) wrongly reported adverse 
information to his credit file.
background
Mr C bought a product  in July 2018  using his Creation account. But he wasnt happy with the 
quality and returned it. He contacted Creation and they returned his payments and cancelled  
his direct debit. But they failed  to cancel the finance arrangement Mr C had established with 
them. This led them to send him arrears letters and to wrongly report arrears to his credit file. 
Mr C complained to Creation and they amended his credit file on 20 September  to put things  
right. They also paid him £75 to compensate him for the inconvenience their mistake  had 
caused. But Mr C wasnt satisfied with their response. He noticed  that his credit card 
balance, with another company, had been  reduced  from £12,000  to only £500  and he 
suspected it was because of the erroneous credit reporting.  So he wanted Creation to 
provide substantial compensation in recognition of the impact their mistake  had had on his 
reputation and credit worthiness.
Dissatisfied with Creations response  he referred  his complaint to this service and our 
adjudicator provided  her opinion. She explained that she couldnt  be certain Mr Cs credit  
limit had been reduced as a result of the errors made by Creation, as she noted that the 
credit card company in question hadnt made any searches on Mr Cs file during 2018. She 
thought the compensation  offered by Creation had been reasonable in the circumstances.
But Mr C disagreed. He said he spent hours  on the phone trying  to remedy the situation  with 
Creation and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Cs credit file and can see he manages his accounts well. So I can 
understand his frustration  with the error made by Creation. But, whilst I accept theres been 
an error and its taken some time to resolve, I dont think  theres evidence  that Mr C has 
suffered financially here and I think the action Creation have taken is therefore sufficient.
Im aware that will probably  be unwelcome news for Mr C; so please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Theres no dispute that a mistake  was made  and I can see from Mr Cs credit  file that his 
account was wrongly  reported in arrears in August  2018. 
Ref: DRN29622792He had to make calls to get the situation rectified and it took until 20 September  to do so. I 
think, in those circumstances, Creation were right to compensate him for the inconvenience 
caused but I think £75 was sufficient.
Im not persuaded that its most  likely his credit card limit was reduced because of the 
arrears that were reported on his file. I say that because:
theres no record  of any search  made  by Halifax on his credit  file in the relevant 
period
its clear the account was shown as settled on his August credit  file. I think this would 
have been the information  that was reviewed, if at all, ahead of any credit  limit 
changes in September
there was reference to a period of arrears on the August credit file but it was also 
clear the debt had been settled. 
there were several other credit  cards balances on file and these credit limits 
remained unaltered
And even  if Im wrong  that the arrears on his Creation account werent responsible  for the 
reduced credit limit, I dont think  the limit reduction  had a significant financial impact on Mr C. 
I can see that he still had significant credit available to him on his other  cards  and he was 
staying within his credit  limit on the card in question.
So whilst I can see that this was a frustrating incident and Mr C had to spend  time putting 
things right, I think the level of compensation thats  already  been  paid is sufficient  and I dont 
think it would  be reasonable to ask Creation to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2962279