K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  (Moneybarn) were  wrong  to provide her 
with credit as it was unaffordable.
background
Miss P took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in October  2015.  The total 
amount payable was £30,398.07  and Miss P was responsible for making an advanced  
payment of £1,150 and 59 monthly repayments  of £495.73. She says Moneybarn shouldnt 
have lent her the money as the repayments  were unaffordable to her.
Moneybarn provided  their final response  to Miss P in June 2018.  They  didnt agree that 
theyd had evidence  the loans werent  affordable and they said the checks  theyd  done  were 
sufficient. They explained that theyd requested, and checked;  income  details and this 
suggested Miss P had an average income of £2,034.80 per month. They  said they also 
checked her indebtedness and payment history  and no concerns were noted.
But Miss P disagreed  with Moneybarn and she therefore referred  her complaint to this 
service and our investigator provided her opinion. She thought the checks  that Moneybarn 
had completed were not proportionate to the amount being loaned. She didnt think 
Moneybarn had checked Miss Ps expenditure and she thought, if they had, they would have 
understood that she couldnt afford the loan. She explained that whilst the business had 
reviewed Miss Ps credit  file this only showed  part of her expenditure and a deeper analysis 
was necessary to understand if the loan was affordable.  She noted that Miss Ps expenses 
would have been about £1,026 and adding the loan would therefore have meant she had 
only just over £500 per month to cover  utility bills; food;  travel and child expenses. She didnt 
think it was reasonable  to suggest there was sufficient disposable income. She also noted 
that Miss P was in arrears  on both her rent and mortgage for a few months prior to the loan 
being approved and she thought if the business had done enough checks they would have 
seen that Miss P couldnt  afford it.
So the investigator thought that to put things right Moneybarn  should refund all interest and 
charges that Miss P had paid on the loan,  adding interest. She also thought they should  
write off any unpaid interest and charges on the loan and apply that refund to reduce any 
capital outstanding.
But Moneybarn disagreed. They said the arrears  wouldnt have been visible  to them  at the 
time and they insisted  their assessment had been  proportionate  and sufficient.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. Please let me explain  why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN23267242board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Since 1 April 2014 the rules and guidelines have  been the chapter on responsible  lending  in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys  Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (chapter 5). These 
regulations say that a lender must  consider the customers  ability  to make repayments as 
they fall due, but they also say that affordability  checks should be proportionate. What is 
considered proportionate  depends on factors such as the size of the loan, the amount of the 
repayments, and what Moneybarn knew about Miss P and about her circumstances.
Moneybarn asked for details of Miss Ps income  and they checked this against her payslips. 
They also looked  at her credit file and theyve explained that they wouldnt have extended  
credit if the repayments represented more than 25% of her income.  The monthly repayment 
was very close to 25% of Miss Ps income and I think  its fair to suggest that Moneybarn  
shouldve carried out further checks to assure themselves about affordability.
But they didnt  ask for information about  her expenditure  and if they had, as the investigator 
has set out and Ive summarised above, they would have realised the loan wasnt  affordable 
as the outgoings were  significant and disposable income limited.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited  
to:
refund  all interest and charges that Miss P paid on the loan and add 8% simple 
interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement
write off any unpaid interest and charges and apply the refund to reduce any capital 
outstanding and pay the balance to the consumer
remove any negative information  that may have been reported to the credit reference  
agencies about this loan
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2326724