K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about the way Tesco Personal  Finance PLC arranged  and administered  his 
car insurance policy. 
background
Mr J renewed  his car insurance  policy through Tesco in early September 2018.  On 
29 October 2018 he called Tesco about  cancelling the policy  because  Tesco  didnt provide 
cover for a campervan  and this is what he would now be driving. He told Tesco he had 
declared his current  car off the road. 
During the call Tesco  told Mr J that by cancelling hed need to pay around £172. Tesco 
explained this consisted of a £40 cancellation charge, the number of days hed already been  
insured for and the total cost of the additional breakdown  cover. Mr J asked Tesco  to provide  
a written breakdown  of how it had calculated the total cancellation amount before he would 
pay it. Tesco said it would do this but only once Mr J had cancelled the policy. It asked Mr J 
to confirm whether  he wanted to cancel the policy, but Mr J didnt respond  so the call was 
ended. 
Mr J wrote to Tesco the next day enclosing a copy of the call recording.  Tesco  cancelled  his 
policy when it received the letter  and call recording in early  November 2018.  It then wrote out 
to him tell him the total amount owed and how that had been calculated. 
Mr J called Tesco to complain. He said he never asked  Tesco  to cancel his policy.  He said 
he had sent the call recording because there had been a miscommunication during that call. 
He said he expected Tesco to respond giving him the option to suspend his insurance  policy. 
He said he never gave an instruction to cancel his policy and he never agreed to any of the 
cancellation charges. 
Tesco said the letter Mr J sent in gave a clear  instruction asking for the policy  to be 
cancelled. It didnt think it had done anything wrong in following  his instructions and the 
cancellation charge had been applied correctly in line with the policy.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He considered  that Mr J had 
given a clear instruction  to cancel the policy in the letter he sent to Tesco on 
30 October 2018. He thought Mr J had accepted the cancellation charges.
Mr J didnt agree. In summary he said:
He hasnt explicitly agreed to the cancellation charge. In the call on 29 October 2018, 
he said he understood the charge  but didnt accept it. 
The letter he sent didnt  give an explicit instruction to cancel the policy.  Instead,  it 
referred Tesco to listen to the call recording.
Neither the letter nor the call recording  agreed  to the terms and conditions  associated 
with cancellation.  
The ombudsman service has so far failed to respond precisely to his questions  of 
whether Tesco had the right to charge the cancellation charge without written or 
verbal agreement  to those  charges. If they are entitled to do so then it should be 
made clear which legal precedent allows them to do this. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.  
Ref: DRN23253472my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr J opted to take out his car insurance policy through  Tesco he entered into a 
contract of insurance. By entering  into the contract, he agreed  to be bound  by the terms of 
that contract. The contract of insurance  set out  amongst other things  what would happen 
in the event that Mr J chose to cancel. Those terms say Tesco  will refund your premiums for 
the time that was left on your policy,  less its cancellation charge. 
The cancellation charge was set out in the renewal documents sent to Mr J. It said this 
charge was £40. Mr J also confirmed in the call in October 2018 that he was aware  the 
cancellation charge was £40. As this formed part of his contract of insurance, he had already 
accepted these terms when he chose to enter  into the contract. For this reason there was no 
requirement on Tesco to get a separate  acceptance about that charge from Mr J at the point 
he actually cancelled. 
Ive also thought about the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  rules concerning  cancellation of 
insurance policies.  These  are set out in its Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS). Having considered ICOBS 7, which covers cancellation and what  Tesco can 
charge, Im satisfied Tesco has fairly complied with those rules. 
Tesco was required to get Mr Js consent to cancel  the insurance contract.  Mr J says he 
didnt give this consent. But I disagree. The letter Mr J sent on 30 October 2018 says:
Please be advised  of the instruction to cancel the insurance policy [policy  number] 
on vehicle description  [Registration] dated  29th October 2018 (with immediate effect).  
I include a recording of the call to Customer Services (dated the same).
I dont think it would  be reasonable to interpret this letter in any other way than an explicit  
instruction to cancel  his insurance policy with immediate effect.  Mr J says this letter  was 
simply referring Tesco to the call recording and giving them the opportunity  to respond to 
him. But even if I accept that was his intention, I dont think  that is what  hes asked Tesco  to 
do. 
Ive listened to the call Mr J had with Tesco in October 2018.  I think its clear Mr J called with 
the intention to cancel his insurance. But the only reason he didnt was because he wanted a 
breakdown of how the total charge for cancellation had been calculated.  As this couldnt be 
provided until after he had agreed to cancel,  Tesco asked  him to confirm  what  he wanted to 
do. But Mr J didnt respond so the call ended. 
This means  Tesco was left with one question unanswered, which  was did Mr J want to 
cancel? I think it was reasonable to conclude that Mr Js letter gave the answer to that 
question, particularly as it included a copy of the call recording.  So for this reason I think  
Mr Js letter,  either  on its own, or in conjunction with the call recording did give explicit 
consent for Tesco to cancel his insurance contract. 
Ref: DRN23253473my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2325347