K821x#15complaint
Mr H says CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
I sent both parties  my provisional  decision on 27 February 2019. A copy  is attached and it 
forms part of this final decision. The full background to the complaint is set out in my 
provisional decision, so I wont  reiterate it here.
I explained why I was planning  to uphold the complaint in part. Mr H said he agreed  with the 
provisional decision. QuickQuid didnt agree and Ive considered  the points it made in 
response to my provisional  decision below. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory  rules and good  industry practice at the time.
The essence  of QuickQuids response  is that it believes it carried  out proportionate 
affordability checks before approving all of Mr Hs loans. It has, as it did in its original 
submissions, referred to having carried out credit checks. But as with its original 
submissions, it hasnt provided the details of these checks   so I dont know  what  it saw or 
how it responded to this information.
I noted in my provision  decision  that QuickQuid had asked Mr H to provide information about 
his monthly credit commitments. I said that QuickQuid had, accepted the £250 figure Mr H 
provided for loan 2  but increased the figure  to £380 for loan 3. I said QuickQuid didnt 
explain or provide  evidence to show why it was reasonable for it to accept the £250  figure  
Mr H gave for loan 2, or why it increased  it for loan 3.
As QuickQuid still hasnt provided any further  evidence of what  it found out from its credit 
checks or shown how it used this information,  it hasnt  given  me anything new to consider on 
this point in response  to my provisional  decision.
QuickQuid also said it wasnt required to check bank statements and that it wouldnt be 
proportionate for it to do so. I hadnt suggested  QuickQuid was required to check Mr Hs 
bank statements. What  I said was that, for loan 3a only, proportionate checks  wouldve 
included QuickQuid asking Mr H for some form of proof of income and expenditure.
I used his bank  statements  as they are the evidence I have of his income and expenditure at 
the time and so I think its reasonable  for me to rely on them.
QuickQuid said that Mr Hs lending  history was something it was prudent  for it to take into 
account. It said Mr Hs lending history  was good, with no late payments and no extensions.  It 
didnt think Mr Hs lending history was indicative of someone in financial difficulty.
I hadnt suggested that Mr Hs lending history  alone  was such that QuickQuid shouldve 
automatically assumed  he was in financial difficulty and so not lent to him. But I do not agree 
the pattern  of borrowing  in Mr Hs case was entirely positive. The gaps between  each  
loan/top-up were  only 5-20 days and I had noted in particular that loan 3a was requested 
only five days after Mr H made  the first repayment for loan 3, which  was under £20. So 
Ref: DRN20773552although Mr H had repaid his loans  on time,  there were indicators that he had not done  so in 
a way which was sustainable for him.
 
With this said, its important  to remember that it was not just whether a loan was repaid 
which was important, but also how it was repaid. CONC 5.3.1G (6) said repayments  should 
be sustainable. The definition  of this included that a borrower should  be able to repay a loan 
without undue difficulties.  This meant making the repayment on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments and out of income and savings  and without having to borrow  to 
meet the repayments. CONC also said that entering  into multiple consecutive agreements  
could be a sign of financial  difficulty.
Mr H did make his repayments on time,  but borrowed  again soon after.  And, taking the top-
up into account, each  loan was larger than the first. This pattern of borrowing can occur 
when a borrower isnt able to make their repayments  while  also meeting their other 
commitments and/or  without having  to borrow again.  Bearing in mind  these risks,  I continue  
to think QuickQuid shouldve carried out affordability  checks like those I set out in my 
provisional decision for loan 3a. Checks like these  wouldve been proportionate, bearing in 
mind the risks Ive described above, as well as other  relevant factors such as the size of the 
largest repayment relative to Mr Hs income.
QuickQuid didnt comment  on what such checks wouldve  likely  shown.  And having reviewed 
this point, I still think that proportionate  checks wouldve likely shown that Mr H was, in a 
cycle of borrowing  from multiple short-term lenders, using high-cost credit not to meet a 
short-term need  but to plug a systematic hole in his finances. So I dont think QuickQuid 
wouldve been able to conclude from this that Mr H wouldve been able to settle loan 3a from 
his income, without the need to borrow again.
For these reasons, I dont  think  QuickQuid  acted responsibly when it approved loan 3a. Im 
therefore upholding Mr Hs complaint about this loan.
putting things right
QuickQuid must:
refund  any interest and charges  Mr H paid as a result of loan 3a
add to the above interest at 8% simple per year, from when Mr H paid them until the 
date of settlement
HM Revenue & Customs requires  QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid must give 
Mr H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN20773553my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. CashEuroNet  UK LLC must put things right by taking the 
steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20773554COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr H says CashEuroNet UK LLC,  trading  as QuickQuid, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr H had three loans with QuickQuid   Ive set out some of the details the business provided about 
the loans in the table  below. Mr H borrowed extra funds during the course of loan 3 and in doing  so 
also extended  the term of the loan by a month. Ive referred to this refinancing  as loan 3a.
Loan no. Start date End date AmountPayment  schedule
all dates 2015
1 09/04/2015 29/05/2015 £200£33.60 on 30 Apr
£246.40 on 29 May
2 03/06/2015 28/08/2015 £450£92.34 on 30 Jun
£106.02 on 31 Jul
£545.76 on 28 Aug
3 17/09/2015 refinanced to 3a £200£19.76  on 30 Sep
£245.60 on 30 Oct
3a 05/10/2015 30/11/2015 £200£83.60  on 30 Oct
£494.24  on 30 Nov
An adjudicator considered Mr Hs complaint and recommended it be upheld.  He didnt think  
QuickQuid had acted responsibly when it approved  loans 2-3a.  QuickQuid didnt  agree with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time.
In its first response to the adjudication, QuickQuid didnt comment on our adjudicators  case-specific 
findings about  the proportionality of its checks or the affordability of the loans. 
QuickQuid said:
In response to your assessment which recommends CashEuroNet UK uphold loans  which were  
funded after March 2015, we regret to inform you that we cannot agree  to your recommendations in 
relation to QuickQuid loans  2 and 3. We would like to provide more information regarding  these  loans. 
I have attached  the entire  lending process including  all the checks that we perform  prior to lending, 
the screenshots of customer applications as well as the sample acknowledgement from the contract 
that customers have to check when  their repayment amount is greater than their estimated disposable  
income.
Attached to the email was a document setting out some general information about QuickQuids  
lending processes.  This Service has responded to Quick  Quid about  this generic document  directly 
and through  earlier final decisions. So I am not going to address  the above  point here, though I have 
considered it alongside everything else in making  my decision. 
The FCA was the regulator  at the time Mr H borrowed  the loans in question. Bearing in mind  the rules 
and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC), I would expect a lenders affordability assessment to vary with circumstance. (I am not 
quoting the specific regulations here because, as before, I would expect Quick Quid  to be conversant  
with these  through previous  ombudsman decisions, particularly recent decisions, which  set these  out 
in detail.) 
Ref: DRN20773555In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id expect  a 
lender to seek more  assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the higher the loan amount,
the lower the consumers income; or
the longer the lending relationship.
For all of the loans QuickQuid asked Mr H about  his income and expenditure  and it recorded Mr Hs 
net monthly income as £1,300 and his expenditure as £725. The expenditure  figure included Mr H 
declaring his monthly credit commitments totalled £250. Deducting Mr Hs declared  expenditure from 
his declared  income  would result in a figure of £575 a month for approximate disposable  income.
For loan 1, I think QuickQuids affordability checks were proportionate. The largest repayment was 
affordable based on what Mr H told it about his income and expenditure and Ive seen no reason  
QuickQuid shouldnt  have  relied  on what Mr H said.
For loans 2-3, I dont think QuickQuid has provided  enough evidence for me to say whether or not its 
checks were proportionate. It says it validated what Mr H told it about  its credit commitments.  And it 
accepted the £250 figure Mr H provided  for loan 2  but increased the figure  to £380  for loan 3. 
QuickQuid hasnt explained  or provided  evidence  to show why it was reasonable for it to accept the 
£250 figure Mr H gave  for loan 2, or why it increased it for loan 3.
But I dont think proportionate checks  wouldve  made a difference for loan 2 or 3  as Ill explain.
For loan 2, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve led to a substantially different figure  for 
disposable income  than the £575 QuickQuid estimated. And based on this figure, the highest 
repayment of £545.76 appears to be affordable. In saying  this, Ive kept in mind that the loan was 
repayable across three months,  so the £30 difference between  Mr Hs highest repayment  and 
disposable income  doesnt  look unreasonable in that context.
For loan 3, Im not persuaded  the estimate of disposable income of around £445 a month was 
reasonable. I think a proportionate check wouldve identified that Mr Hs credit commitments at that 
time were closer  to £540. This would leave  him with disposable income of around £300 a month. But 
on this basis, the second payment is still affordable. The highest payment  wouldnt necessarily have 
required Mr H to save much income  from the previous  month  which  wouldve been an unreasonable  
expectation of someone whod taken out three consecutive payday loans with only very short gaps in 
between. But in the specific circumstances  of Mr Hs case,  the second  payment still left him with some 
leeway  and I note the first payment was very small.  Overall,  I dont think a proportionate check  
wouldve suggested loan 3 wasnt affordable for Mr H.
Turning to loan 3a  I dont  think QuickQuid acted responsibly by approving  it. The loan was 
requested only five days after Mr H made the first repayment  for loan 3, which was under  £20. The 
top-up doubled the size of the loan and increased the size of the largest  repayment to £494.24. As 
making a small  repayment shortly after being paid appears to have caused Mr H to have to borrow 
again, then QuickQuid ought to have realised from this that it was unlikely Mr H was managing  to 
settle his debts sustainably at this time.
Had QuickQuid also carried out proportionate checks for loan 3a, which  by now I think  ought  to have 
included asking Mr H for some form of proof of income and expenditure, then I think it wouldve only 
confirmed the above. Mr Hs bank statements suggest he was in a cycle  of borrowing  from multiple 
short-term lenders, using high-cost credit not to meet a short-term need but to plug a systematic hole 
in his finances.  Proportionate  checks would not likely  have shown QuickQuid that Mr H would be able 
to settle  loan 3a from his income, without the need  to borrow again. In other words, it wouldve  likely 
seen the loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr H. Im therefore  planning to uphold the complaint 
about loan 3a.
Ref: DRN20773556For the reasons  Ive given above, Im not planning to uphold the complaint  about loans 1-3 but do 
intend to uphold the complaint about loan 3a.
putting things  right
I plan to tell QuickQuid  to:
refund any interest and charges Mr H paid as a result  of loan 3a
add to the above  interest at 8% simple  per year, from when Mr H paid them  until the date of 
settlement
Id usually  suggest QuickQuid should also remove any adverse information  it reported to credit 
reference agencies  about loan 3a. But from what Ive seen, Ive no reason to believe  any adverse 
information has been  reported.
HM Revenue & Customs requires  QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid must give 
Mr H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
I plan to uphold this complaint in part and to tell CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things right by taking the 
steps set out above.
Ref: DRN2077355