K821x#15complaint
Mr Ys complaint is that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold an investment  hub platform service to 
him in 2018.
background
Santander concedes  that Mr Y was misinformed about the process for accessing the 
investment hub. He made it clear at the outset that he did not wish to have a hub service  for 
which online  banking was required  (for access)  and/or in which online access  to his banking 
accounts would be made available. To explain his requirement, he made clear his lack of 
confidence in online banking. Unfortunately the hub service sold to him did (and does) 
require online banking  and entails online banking access to a customers  accounts.
The parties dispute relates mainly to redress. 
Santanders advisory service to Mr Y was about  his investment of £85,000 (in total) in two 
Stocks and Shares Individual  Savings  Accounts (ISAs) and an Investment Account. The 
relevant suitability report confirms the advisory  fee that was charged for this investment 
advice. Suitability of the investment advice is not in dispute  there  is sufficient evidence  to 
confirm that both parties agree on this.
The hub service  was also recommended  by Santander and separate  service costs  
distinct from the investment advice  fee  were  provided for in this respect.
Santanders present  position is, in the main, as follows:
It has paid Mr Y a total of £400 for the trouble and upset caused to him. It considers  
this fair and sufficient.
It disputes Mr Ys pursuit for a refund of his initial total investment amount,  on the 
grounds that suitability  of the investments is a separate matter which is not in dispute 
 so there is no ground to redress the investments.
It disputes the notion of refunding the hub service fees to Mr Y because he used it 19 
times over the course of seven weeks before  he complained about it and that even 
after his complaint he has continued to use it. It says Mr Y has acted contrary to his 
claim that he does not want the service and that it would be unfair to refund him fees 
for a service he has clearly and wilfully  used.
Previously, one of our investigators  looked into the complaint. He endorsed  the £400 figure 
used by Santander as compensation for the trouble an upset caused to Mr Y. However, he 
also concluded that there should be redress for the investments and a refund of the advisors 
fees. Mr Y accepted  this outcome but Santander disagree with it for the reasons summarised  
above.
The matter  was referred to and considered  by me. I formed a set of initial conclusions and 
queries. With the investigators assistance,  these  conclusions  and queries  were shared with 
both parties. They were invited to provide  their comments  and they were  given notice  that, 
unless their comments changed my mind,  my decision on the complaint would likely and 
broadly be as follows:
£400 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr Y for the mis-selling, at 
the outset, of the hub service is reasonable.
Ref: DRN25821982There could be a basis for a refund of the hub service fees.  However that could be 
defeated by evidence of Mr Y affirming/accepting the service by using it multiple 
times before and after his complaint. Mr Y was asked to address this.
Suitability of the investments is a distinct issue and is not in dispute, so there is no 
reasonable basis for a refund of investment advice  fees or for redress  of the 
investments. 
If Mr Y seeks to transfer his investments away from Santander  and if they can be 
transferred as they are  that should be done  free of charge. Santander  was asked to 
address this.
Santander agreed with my initial conclusion about  compensation for trouble and upset.  It 
argued, for the reasons summarise above, that no refund  of hub service fees should take 
place. It welcomed my initial conclusion that no redress for the investments or refund  of 
investment advice fees should take place. It confirmed that there are no exit fees if Mr Y 
transfers his investments out of the hub but some of them could require surrender and 
reinvestment.
Mr Y did not welcome my initial conclusions. In the main he said:
For the sake of clarity, his complaint   has never been  about the investment, it has 
always been about the product information as a whole package and that it is about 
him making a decision to give his business to Santander based on incorrect 
information it gave  him about  the hub service. But for the misinformation, he would 
have taken his business elsewhere   probably  to the Bank of Scotland  where the 
charges were identical and where the investments were near like for like in 
comparison to his Santander funds.
He logged into the hub service and continued to do so until he realised that he was 
 logging  into online banking and not just The HUB  which  is when he stopped  
and then complained. Afterwards he has made  telephone calls to customer  services 
on different occasions to monitor his assets and he has been transferred to the hub  
should this be regarded as him accessing  the hub after his complaint when it is 
Santander that transferred him to the hub during each call?
He was under the impression that he could not close down his investments unless he 
was in serious financial difficulty or in ill health.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered both parties comments on my initial  conclusions  and their responses to 
my queries,  I am not persuaded to alter those initial conclusions. I uphold  Mr Ys complaint  
but only in relation to the isolated matter of the hub service being mis-sold to him at the 
outset. Thereafter, on balance, I consider that he has done enough to affirm and accept the 
hub service and that he has used that service enough to render a refund of the hub fees 
unfair. I also retain the conclusions that suitability  of the investments is not in dispute, is not 
a complaint issue and cannot reasonably be a basis for redress   in this respect I consider it 
also unfair to ask Santander  to refund the investment advice fee.
Mr Ys investments
Ref: DRN25821983Mr Y has repeatedly confirmed that he does not dispute suitability of the investments 
recommended by Santander. He has also confirmed that his preferred alternatives are near  
like for like investments through the Bank  of Scotland. The idea of substituting  the 
Santander investments  with near-like-for-like investments elsewhere further reinforces the 
conclusion that Mr Y accepts the suitability of his Santander investments. 
I do not accept, in the context of the complaint  against Santander,  Mr Ys statement about 
not being able to close down his investments  other than in circumstances of ill health or 
financial difficulty. I have  not seen evidence  that Santander gave him the impression that he 
could not withdraw  his investments and evidence suggests that there was/is not even an exit 
fee to do so. 
I do not consider  it reasonable  to redress investments which were suitable for Mr Y or to 
award him a refund of the fee he paid for investment advice which  was also suitable for him. 
He retains discretion to transfer  his investments away from Santander. Evidence suggests 
that some  could require  surrender and reinvestment. However, it appears to be Mr Ys 
evidence that he has already identified  alternatives and it is Santanders evidence that the 
exit will be free of charge.
Hub service
Mr Y did not want a hub service that required online banking to access  it and/or in which  
online access to his banking accounts would be made available.  Evidence of Santanders 
hub service (in terms of access  and its layout/functions) shows that Mr Y would have been 
aware upon his first use of the service  that both of these elements  which he says he did 
not want  were present. Online banking was required to access the hub and, subsequent to 
accessing it, the layout of its functions  shows information (online) about all of the customers 
Santander accounts. There is also evidence that documentation  about the service confirmed 
the need for online banking in order to use it.
Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that Mr Y would  have needed to use the service 
19 times over a number  of weeks before he became aware that it featured the two key 
elements he did not want. I do not doubt that he did not want  these elements at the outset, 
but his actions suggest that he affirmed and accepted them  in the course of this usage 
thereafter. Even if I discount his usage after his complaint  based on his argument  that he 
was transferred to the hub by Santander  and not by his choice  I consider his usage prior to 
the complaint  to be sufficient evidence of affirmation  and acceptance of the service. I also 
consider that his overall use of the service is sufficient to make a refund of the hub service 
fees unfair.
Misrepresentation at the outset
I agree  with Mr Ys assertion that the unreasonableness of the misrepresentation of the hub 
service at the outset  cannot be in doubt.  It appears that Santander  also agrees with this 
assertion  or would  also agree with the assertion.  £400 is a reasonable sum to compensate 
Mr Y for the trouble  and upset caused by this isolated issue   with its isolation emphasised 
by my finding above that Mr Y affirmed  and accepted the service thereafter.  Both parties 
appear to agree that this payment has already been  made to Mr Y, if so, that concludes 
resolution of this issue. If this is wrong  and if this payment has not been made to Mr Y, it 
should be made now.
Ref: DRN25821984my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ys complaint only in relation to the trouble and 
upset caused  to him by the mis-selling of the hub service at the outset. I conclude that he is 
entitled to £400 in this respect. 
Santander UK Plc says, and Mr Y appears  to agree, that this payment has already been 
made to him. If so, no further action  is needed.  If Santander UK Plc has not previously made  
this payment I order it to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2582198