K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Santander  UK Plc wont refund a £15,000 payment made from 
their account  that they say they didnt authorise.
background
Mr and Mrs B held a 1-2-3 current account with Santander. In February 2017 Mr B was the 
victim of a scam known  as smishing  (this is where a fraudster  sends an SMS text message  
to a customer and it appears  to come from their bank).  
Mr B says that, on 27 February  2017, he received a text message which appeared to come 
from Santander. The message looked  like it had been sent from the same  phone number 
that hed previously received messages from Santander on. The message came up on his 
phone as being from Santander and joined  the Santander message thread  following the 
messages he had genuinely  received from the bank. He therefore  assumed that the 
message had in fact been sent by Santander. The message  read:
Santander  has noticed  your debit card was recently used on 27-02-2017  18:23:03  at 
APPLE ONLINE STORE for 1,976.00  GBP. If not you please urgently call fraud  prevention 
on XXXXXXXXXXX or Intl XXXXXXXXXXX.  Do not reply by SMS .
Mr B says that he was confident that when he rang the number shown on the text he was 
speaking to a member of staff from Santander to resolve the problem. And this was the 
reason he passed  on his details to the female  he was speaking  with. He says he was 
confident the person he was speaking to was dealing with the problem of someone  using  his 
details to make a payment on his account. Mr B says he also had a similar  problem with his 
bank account  in March 2016 and had to close his account and open  a new one (with  
Santander) and was assured it would be flagged when there  were  any future similar 
attempts to remove funds  from his account.
Mr B hasnt said what questions he was asked, or what answers  he gave to those questions. 
Mr B is saying  he didnt log into his online banking. It seems that whilst talking to Mr B, the 
fraudster accessed  Mr Bs online banking facility using information that they managed to 
convince Mr B to share with them, and through that accessed his account. Santander says 
that in order to access Mr and Mrs Bs joint account  the fraudster wouldve needed the log 
on number, date of birth and parts of Mr Bs security number. Santander  says because a 
new IP address  was used to log in to Mr Bs online banking an additional security  question 
was required and passed. Mr B confirms he was asked  to provide his place of birth to the 
caller  which Santander believes is likely to be the additional security question asked at this 
stage.
Whilst in Mr Bs online account, the fraudster changed the account details for one of Mr Bs 
existing payees.  The fraudster changed  the details to such  an extent that it altered the 
account number  and sort code of an existing bill payment, effectively creating a new payee. 
This action  prompted  a One Time Passcode (OPT) to be sent from Santander to Mr Bs 
mobile phone to verify the change.
Mr B, who says he was still on the telephone to the fraudster at this point, then received  a 
text message containing an OTP to his phone. 
Ref: DRN23399572The OTP message arrived in the same thread as the original message from the fraudster 
and the genuine text messages that Mr B had previously received from Santander. The 
message read:
This OTP is to AMEND A PAYEE on a payment. Dont share this code with anyone. Call us 
immediately if you didnt  request this XXXXXXXX.
Mr B gave the code  to the fraudster, he thought to protect  his account and, shortly 
afterwards, £15,000,  was transferred out of this joint account to the newly amended payee.
Santanders security system  flagged  the payment out of the account  and this prompted 
another layer  of security. This was an automated call to Mr B providing a three digit security  
code that he would need to call back and provide  to Santander to confirm the payment as 
genuine. Its systems detected a SIM change on Mr Bs phone so didnt use the mobile  
number to make the security call. But Santanders  system attempted to call Mr and Mrs Bs 
home phone number 28 times and then left an automated voicemail with the three  digit 
security code. Mr B confirms he listened to the voicemail and, under the fraudsters 
instruction, gave this code  to them, and that doesnt appear to be in dispute.
Someone then called Santanders automated system entering the three  digit code, and 
confirming the payment  from Mr and Mrs Bs account as genuine.
Below is a table of key events:
18:23 Mr B received a text message which looked  like it had come from Santander and 
Mr B called the number  and gave over enough security  information during the call 
to enable the fraudster to access  Mr Bs online banking.
18:40 The fraudster logged  onto Mr Bs online banking.
18:41 Mr B received an OTP by text message from Santander.
18:44 The OTP was input  to amend  payee  (mandate 9). A payment for £15,000 was 
made out of the account to the newly amended payee.
18:45 Santanders security system  tried to contact Mr B  mobile number checked and 
SIM changed from last contact so no call made to mobile. 28 attempts made to 
contact Mr and Mrs Bs home number  Santanders notes say no response block 
applied to system.
18:47 Santanders security system  called  landline  automated voicemail  message left 
containing three digit security number  needed to call back Santander to allow 
payment to proceed.
18:50 Mr B says he gave that code to the fraudster  and someone then responded to 
automated security call providing  the three digit code confirming the transaction as 
genuine and the payment was made from Mr and Mrs Bs account
19:40 Mr B called Santander after receiving a text to say his account was overdrawn by 
£335.10. He asked about earlier conversation to a prevent payment and then 
discovered this had been a scam
Ref: DRN23399573Mr B reported the scam at 19.40  on 27 February  2017. This was 50 minutes  after the monies  
had been sent. Santander says the recipient bank  could  not be contacted that night. It says it 
contacted the recipient bank at 8.38am  on 28 February 2017.  Santander says this seems  a 
reasonable action as the scam was reported outside of normal  working hours.  
The receiving bank  has confirmed the money left the account  at on 27 February at 20:07. 
Mr B is unhappy that Santander didnt warn him and other customers that fraudsters were  
targeting people  with this particular type of scam.  In particular Mr B feels that Santander 
should have warned him about  the smishing text messages that were being  sent to 
consumers. 
In response to this Santander has said: 
The issue  of texts attaching themselves to a specific  genuine text thread is part of the way 
SMART phones are set up. It is the fraudsters who are using an app that makes  it appear a 
text message is coming from Santanders number. We have no control over this. When 
received the message attaches itself to an existing thread  on the recipient phone from that 
number. There is no evidence of Santander  error.
Santander has tried to educate customers to scams by the following means 
1.Electronic messages sent via online banking mailbox. Mr B has received messages 
on 11 January 2017  and 22 November  2016 giving security advice on scams both of 
which show as having been read. The message  on 11 January 2017  specifically 
warns about receiving spoofing texts  although it does not mention that text messages 
can attach themselves to previous threads on the phone. 
2.A message on the home internet  sign on page  specifically  advises  never to 
disclose or enter an OTP following  an instruction from a third party.
3.Branch leaflets giving specific fraud  advice.
4.Customer call centre message providing  advice on how to avoid fraud although  not 
specifically mentioning spoofing.
5.Statement insert issued with Dec 14 statements.  This advised customers  not to 
divulge security information  to any third party specifically highlighting OTPs and 
stating Santander  will never ask for an OTP by phone contact.
Santander says its email message sent to Mr Bs online banking mailbox on 11 January 
2017 said: 
Never rely on caller ID alone  to authenticate a caller or a text message. Criminals can 
spoof caller ID numbers, meaning  you cant be sure the number displayed on your phone  
belongs to the company it claims to be from.
Ref: DRN23399574my provisional decision
On 07 December 2018 I issued a provisional  decision  on Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.  After  
considering all the evidence and arguments presented by both sides, I was minded to 
conclude that:
Mr B did not authorise the transactions in question;
Mr B had not acted  with gross negligence; 
Santander should fairly and reasonably refund  the money  obtained from Mr B by the 
fraudster, plus interest  at the rate he would have received had the money  remained  
in Mr and Mrs Bs joint account;  and
Santander should pay Mr and Mrs B £300 for the trouble and upset they 
experienced.
Mr and Mrs B responded to say they accepted the findings set out in my provisional 
decision.
Santander also responded  to say it had nothing further to add and accepted the findings 
reached in my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties accept  my provisional  
findings I see no reason  to depart  from these.  
For clarity Ive set out the relevant considerations here and a summary  of the findings in my 
provisional decision as well and my directions to Santander to put the matter right.
relevant considerations
Santander as an FCA regulated firm provided a current deposit account. As such  the 
FCAs overarching Principles for Businesses apply including the requirement to pay due 
regard to a customers  interests and treat them fairly (Principle 6). 
The transfers from Mr and Mrs Bs account were  made in February 2017. So of particular 
relevance to my decision about  what is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint are the Payment Services Regulations  2009 (PSR 2009). I think  these sections of 
PSR 2009 are of particular relevance  here:
Consent and withdrawal  of consent
55.(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been  authorised  by the payer for 
the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent  to
(a) the execution  of the payment transaction; 
Ref: DRN23399575Obligations of the payment service user in relation to payment instruments
57.(1) A payment service user to whom a payment instrument has been issued must 
(a)use the payment  instrument in accordance with the Terms and Conditions 
governing its issue  and use; and
(b)notify the payment service provider in the agreed manner and without undue 
delay on becoming  aware  of the loss, theft,  misappropriation or unauthorised  use 
of the payment instrument.
(2) The payment  service user must on receiving a payment instrument take all reasonable 
steps to keep its personalised security features safe.
Evidence on authentication  and execution  of payment transactions
60.(1) Where a payment service user
(a)denies having authorised an executed  payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment  transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider  to prove  that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment  service  providers accounts and 
not affected by a technical breakdown or some  other  deficiency.
(2) In paragraph  (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure  by which  a payment 
service provider is able to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including its 
personalised security  features.
(3) Where a payment  service user denies  having authorised an executed payment 
transaction, the use of a payment instrument recorded by the payment service provider is 
not in itself necessarily  sufficient to prove  either that
(a) the payment  transaction  was authorised by the payer; or
(b) the payer acted  fraudulently or failed with intent or gross  negligence to comply with 
regulation 57.
Payment service providers liability  for unauthorised payment transactions
61. Subject to regulations  59 [Notification  of unauthorised or incorrectly  executed  payment 
transactions] and 60, where an executed payment transaction was not authorised  in 
accordance with regulation 55, the payment service provider must  immediately 
(a) refund  the amount of the unauthorised payment transaction  to the payer;  and
(b) where applicable, restore the debited  payment account  to the state  it would have been in 
had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place.
Payers liability for unauthorised  payment  transactions
62.(1) Subject  to paragraphs (2) , the payer  is liable up to a maximum of £50 for any 
losses incurred in respect of unauthorised payment transactions arising
(a) from the use of a lost or stolen payment instrument; or
(b) where the payer has failed to keep the personalised  security features of the payment 
instrument safe, from the misappropriation of the payment instrument.
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payer
Ref: DRN23399576(a) has acted fraudulently; or
(b) has with intent or gross negligence  failed to comply with regulation 57.
consent
Regulation 55 says that the payer  must give consent, and it must  be given in the form, and 
in accordance with the procedure, agreed  between the payer and its payment  service 
provider. The payment  services directive  itself (which PSR 2009  implements)  says In the 
absence of such consent, a payment transaction shall be considered to be unauthorised. 
But neither  PSR 2009 nor the FCAs 2013  guidance  on PSR 2009  provide a definition of 
consent. 
I therefore think it is fair, when considering whether consent was given, to apply the common 
definition of consent, which is to give permission for something to happen.
gross negligence
Whether a customer has acted with gross  negligence  is something that can only be 
assessed on a case by case basis taking into account all the circumstances.  The term is not 
defined in PSR 2009 nor in the first Payment Services Directive.  However, recital 72 of the 
second Payment  Services Directive provides as follows:
In order to assess possible negligence or gross negligence on the part of the payment 
service user,  account should be taken of all of the circumstances.  The evidence and degree 
of alleged negligence should generally be evaluated  according to national  law. However, 
while the concept of negligence implies  a breach of a duty of care, gross negligence should  
mean more  than mere  negligence, involving conduct exhibiting a significant degree of 
carelessness; for example, keeping the credentials used to authorise a payment transaction  
beside the payment instrument in a format that is open and easily  detectable by third 
parties
Reflecting this, the FCA, in its document setting out its role under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, says:
 we interpret gross negligence to be a higher  standard than the standard of negligence 
under common law. The customer needs  to have shown a very significant degree  of 
carelessness.
Although neither of these is directly relevant  to this complaint, they are of value  as a relevant 
consideration in the absence of contemporaneous  interpretative guidance, and because they 
inform the meaning  of a concept  that has been in place for some  time (in the Banking Code). 
When considering   gross  negligence in a commercial contract context, Mance J in Red Sea 
Tankers Ltd v Papachristidis  (The Ardent) [1997]  2 Lloyds Rep 547, 586 said:  
If the matter is viewed  according to purely English principles of construction,   Gross 
negligence is clearly  intended to represent  something more fundamental than failure to 
exercise proper skill and/or care constituting negligence  as a matter  of ordinary language 
and general impression, the concept of gross  negligence  seems to me capable of embracing 
not only conduct undertaken with actual appreciation  of the risks involved, but also serious 
disregard  of or indifference to an obvious  risk.
Ref: DRN23399577Negligence is often  referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. But as I have 
described above, gross negligence suggests a lack of care that goes significantly beyond  
ordinary negligence. So I have to consider whether what  Mr B did fell so far below the 
standard expected of a reasonable person that it would  be fair to say he failed with gross 
negligence to keep  his personalised security details safe or to comply with the Terms  and 
Conditions of the account. 
the Terms & Conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs account 
The following  are extracts from the general  Terms and Conditions  applicable  to 
Mr and Mrs Bs joint account at the time.  These Terms and Conditions broadly reflect the 
provisions contained  in the PSR 2009.
6. your remedies for unauthorised payments  a) if you notify us that a payment was not 
authorised by you, we will immediately refund your account with the amount of the 
unauthorised payment  taken.. b) before  we refund  your account, we are entitled to carry 
out an investigation if there are reasonable grounds  for us to suspect that you have acted 
fraudulently, deliberately or have been  grossly negligent. We will conduct  our investigation 
as quickly as possible and may ask you to reasonably assist  in that investigation.  
9. you must  keep your Personal  Security Details secure and follow the safeguards in this 
document and on santander.co.uk to keep your Personal Security  Details, PIN, card and 
chequebook secure The care of your chequebooks, cards, PINs, Personal Security Details 
and selected personal information  is essential to help prevent fraud and protect your 
account. To ensure this you must:  not disclose  your PIN or Personal Security Details to 
anyone else, not even a member of Santander  staff;  and only enter your Personal Security  
Details where you are requested to do so by an online banking screen. c) we may debit your 
account with any amount  refunded under Condition 7.2 a) in Section 2A where we 
subsequently become  aware that the payment authorised by you or that any of the 
circumstances 
9.7 the care of your chequebooks, cards, PINs, Personal Security  Details and selected 
personal information is essential to help prevent fraud and protect  your account. the ensure 
this you must:c)  always  take reasonable steps to keep your cards  safe and your PIN, 
Personal Security Details and selected  personal  information secret and dispose  of them 
safely. f) not disclose  your PIN and Personal Security  Details to anyone  else,  not even a 
member of staff. h) only enter your Personal Security Details where you are requested  to do 
so by an online banking  screen; i) act on any further  instructions  we give you to ensure that 
your online banking is secure. Any instructions will reflect  good  security practice, taking 
account of developments in e-commerce.
13. in each case we have  to show that you acted fraudulently, deliberately or with gross 
negligence or that you failed  to notify  us as required.
13.3 we have to prove: any allegation  of fraud;  or that you were grossly negligent in failing 
to follow  any of the safeguards listed in 9.7
Santander also says To access the online service, customers need to accept the Conditions 
of use. They  state at 11.1.6  Whenever  you use the One Time Passcode  functions you 
must take all reasonable precautions to prevent anyone else from accessing your 
confidential information including the One Time Passcode(s) that will be sent to you. You 
Ref: DRN23399578must never disclose your One Time Passcode verbally to any individual even if they claim to 
be our employees or agents or the Police.
key provisional questions
In my view the above relevant considerations mean that, if the transactions  were 
unauthorised, it would be fair and reasonable for Santander to refund the amount stolen from 
Mr and Mrs B unless  Mr B, with intent or gross negligence, failed to comply  with the Terms  
and Conditions of the account  and the obligations set out in Regulation  57.
In these circumstances I think there  are two key questions relevant to my consideration 
about what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances:
1.Were the disputed  transactions authorised by Mr B? and;
2.If they werent, can Santander  demonstrate  that Mr B failed with intent or gross  
negligence either to comply with the Terms and Conditions  of his account  or to keep 
his personalised security  details  safe?
Though there is naturally  some overlap of events when answering these two questions, I will 
approach them in this order. 
were the disputed transactions  authorised by Mr B?
All parties  agreed  that Mr B did not authorise this transaction. When  he received the OTP 
from Santander he gave  this the fraudster  and they entered  this into online banking  in order  
to process a payment from Mr and Mrs Bs joint account, Mr B did not consent for any 
money to leave his account. I was also satisfied that Mr B did not call back Santander and 
provide the three digit security that it left for him in a voicemail, again  he passed this 
information to the fraudster  and they used it to verify  the payment. 
So, my starting point here is that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for Mr B to be held liable 
for the transaction   which I think  is more  likely  than not to have been unauthorised  - unless 
he has failed with intent  or gross  negligence to comply with the terms and conditions  of the 
relationship with Santander and the obligations set out in the PSR 2009.
did Mr B fail with gross  negligence either to comply with the Terms  and Conditions of 
the account,  or to keep his personalised security details safe?
In my provisional decision I also concluded that I didnt think Mr B had been grossly 
negligent. I concluded that Mr B was tricked by a fraudster into giving over some account  
security information. Mr B was also then tricked into handing over an OTP which  allowed an 
existing payee  to be amended, effectively making it into an entirely new payee.  And he was 
tricked into giving over the three digit security code  he received in an automated  voicemail 
from Santander. However, on the balance of evidence, I dont currently think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to say that, in falling for these  tricks and failing to keep his security details 
safe, Mr B was grossly  negligent.
Ref: DRN23399579Negligence is often  referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. I think it is fair to say 
that gross  negligence involves a degree  of negligence that is higher than ordinary 
negligence. That is consistent with what has been  held by the courts  in a commercial 
contract context (as mentioned, Mance J held that Gross negligence is clearly  intended  to 
represent something more fundamental than failure  to exercise proper skill and/or care 
constituting negligence), and the FCAs guidance, which  says that gross  negligence is a 
higher standard  than the standard of negligence  under common  law.  
Ive thought carefully about the actions Mr B took in the circumstances here, and whether 
what he did, fell so far below the standard of a reasonable  person that it would be fair to say 
he failed with gross negligence to keep his personalised security details safe or to comply  
with the Terms and Conditions of the account.
Gross negligence  isnt an abstract  concept. Its important to take into account  all the 
circumstances when  considering whether an individuals  actions amount to gross 
negligence. The scam here involved smishing and social  engineering, where fraudsters 
use a range of sophisticated techniques to trick, deceive and manipulate their victims into 
giving out confidential information.  Here Mr B was made to believe he was talking to his own 
bank, needing  to act quickly to protect his bank  account which was currently being used for 
fraudulent spending. So Ive thought about Mr Bs actions in that context, and considered  his 
actions overall. 
I have seen the text message Mr B received  and he has described how it followed  other  
genuine text messages from Santander. He said it looked genuine and I dont doubt his 
account of this. This is a sophisticated  method used by fraudsters to trick their victims into a 
sense of security, and into believing that they are dealing with their genuine  bank and that 
they need to act quickly to protect  their account. So I can understand why it wouldnt,  
reasonably, have raised any suspicion  from Mr B  or any reasonable person in these 
circumstances.
I dont think, at the time, Mr B thought  the actions he was taking were for any other  purpose  
than to prevent  a fraudulent payment leaving his account, and to secure his bank account. 
Rather than appreciating the risk he was taking by following  the fraudsters instructions, but 
disregarding or being indifferent  to it, he was under the opposite impression - that if he didnt 
follow those instructions he was at risk of losing his money.
Mr B hasnt been able to provide us with much detail about  what  the fraudster told him the 
OTP and three digit code were for. But from what he has said, I think  it likely the fraudsters 
convinced him the codes  were needed  in the process of protecting his money and the 
various stages the bank  needed to go through to do that. And I wouldnt expect Mr B to know 
what Santanders processes are for stopping a payment, or to necessarily question  what  he 
was being asked to do, because he genuinely  believed he was working  with his bank to 
protect his account.  Hed also been  on the telephone to the fraudster for some  time and was 
worried about the security  of his bank account,  and felt pressure to act. In similar 
circumstances I think many  people wouldve acted in the same  way that Mr B did here.
So on balance Im not currently persuaded that his actions  fell so far below what a 
reasonable person would do in the circumstances to amount to gross  negligence.
warnings
Ref: DRN233995710I also mentioned the warnings Santander  says it sent to Mr B prior to the fraud. But on the 
facts of this particular case,  I dont believe Mr Bs failure to read or head  the warnings in 
question is enough,  on the balance of evidence, for Santander to demonstrate gross 
negligence occurred  here.
putting things  right
As both parties agree, I now direct  Santander  to:
-refund  Mr and Mrs Bs joint account with £15,000; and 
-pay interest on that amount at the respective account interest rates,  from the date of 
the withdrawals to the date of settlement. If Santander deducts tax from the interest 
element of this award, it should provide Mr and Mrs B with the appropriate tax 
deduction certificate. 
-this has been  a very worrying time for Mr and Mrs B. Having considered  the matter  
as a whole  and the concern it caused  Mr and Mrs B, being told they wouldnt receive 
a refund of such a large amount of money,  I think it would be fair for Santander to 
pay Mr and Mrs B a further £300 compensation for the trouble and upset they 
experienced.
Under PSR 2009,  and the Terms and Conditions of the account which reflect that legislation,  
Santander is entitled to hold Mr and Mrs B responsible for the first £50 of their loss. If it 
intends to do this, it can take this amount from the £15,000 before adding the interest 
element.
my final decision
As Ive concluded above I now direct Santander UK plc to settle Mr and Mrs Bs complaint as 
Ive set out both here and in my provisional  decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2339957