K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about the early surrender penalty he was charged  upon the surrender 
of a portfolio bond he held with Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G). 
background
Mr H held a with profits portfolio bond with L&G since  2007. In early  2017 he enquired about 
cashing in the bond and wrote to L&G asking  for the surrender value. He also explained to 
L&G that if an early surrender penalty  would apply the funds were not to be released and he 
would wait until the following year when the penalty would not apply. 
In May 2017  L&G surrendered the bond and confirmed this in a letter  to Mr H dated  2 May 
2017. This letter also contained  details  of the early  surrender penalty Mr H had been  
charged with (just under £1,500).  Mr H has said this was the first notification  he had about 
the penalty as L&G hadnt mentioned  it when  he requested the valuation or any time after 
that when he confirmed the surrender.
L&G admitted  in August 2017  that it had made a mistake by surrendering  the policy without  
checking whether  a surrender penalty applied as per Mr Hs instructions. It offered Mr H 
£200 for this mistake  and also confirmed he could return the funds and it would reinstate the 
bond.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and explained the funds couldnt  be returned  because they had 
been committed elsewhere.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it should be 
upheld. She felt that given the admitted mistake  by L&G and the fact the funds has been  
invested elsewhere, L&G should  refund the early penalty charge because had it not made a 
mistake the charge would  never  have  had to be paid by Mr H.
L&G didnt agree with the outcome.  It felt that Mr H didnt want  to reinstate the bond rather 
than he wasnt able to. It felt that because Mr H had said he would not have surrendered  the 
bonds at that time had he known the penalty applied, he had money  available elsewhere 
that could be used to reinstate the bond.
The investigator considered L&Gs points but wasnt persuaded to change  her outcome. So 
as no agreement could  be reached the complaint  has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the complaint 
should be upheld.
There is no argument over whether L&G made  a mistake in surrendering the bond  without 
checking whether  an early  surrender  penalty  applied. So I wont be considering  whether 
Mr H should have been aware of the penalty at the point he enquired  about encashing the 
bond. I am also satisfied  that he made  it clear,  and L&G were aware, that the bond was not 
to be cancelled if a penalty applied.
Ref: DRN22997272So this decision is focused on, given the error  admitted by L&G, whether its proposed  
method of redress is appropriate.
L&G has offered  to reinstate the bond  as well as £200 for the trouble and upset  its error  
caused. When Mr H refused this L&G made no other offer to recognise the loss Mr H 
incurred by the penalty charge. But its offer for the trouble  and upset remained intact.
When an error has occurred the way we, in this Service, try to rectify that error  is to put the 
consumer back into the position they would have been in had that error not occurred, or as 
close to that position as we can.
Obviously in this situation this would  be returning the funds to the bond because Mr H has 
confirmed that he would  not have  surrendered  the bond at that point in time had he known 
about the penalty. However, the fact is Mr H did surrender the bond and now the funds have 
been committed to a discretionary gift trust with a different provider. Clearly these funds are 
no longer available to be reinstated into the bond. So I dont think  reinstating the bond as 
L&G has suggested is the correct or the only method  of resolving this issue.
L&G feels  that Mr H could  use other monies he has to reinstate the bond.  But I dont think  
this is reasonable.  Firstly there is nothing to confirm Mr H has such levels of monies held 
elsewhere. Also I dont think Mr H should be further inconvenienced by finding monies from 
his other  holdings to reinstate the bond due to an error on the part of L&G.
L&G also feels that Mr H became aware  of the penalty charge four days  before reinvesting  
the money elsewhere. However in my view this isnt relevant. Its reasonable Mr H had plans 
for the money and indeed its prudent that such a sum wasnt  simply left in bank account.  So 
I dont think Mr H reinvested the monies  as a way of not reinstating the bond.
The simple  fact is that Mr H unnecessarily incurred an early penalty charge which shouldnt 
have happened  had L&G followed Mr Hs instructions.  And Mr H having surrendered the 
bond thinking there would be no penalty,  cannot  now legitimately reinstate the bond.
Therefore in lieu of reinstating the bond  and putting  Mr H back  into the position he would 
have been had the error not occurred the next best resolution is to refund him for the loss 
that would  have occurred but for the error  on the part of L&G.
Therefore in my view it is only right that L&G refund the full amount of the penalty charge to 
Mr H to his chosen  account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should refund the full amount of the penalty 
charge to Mr H to his chosen account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22997273
Ref: DRN2299727