K822xcomplaint
Mr T (who is complaining on behalf of his business, N) is unhappy Swinton Group Ltd hasnt 
refunded the premiums  it paid for a mis-sold  insurance policy.  
background 
Mr T says N carries out development  and maintenance  work on its own properties. In April 
2014 Swinton  recommended it take out insurance  which included  public liability  cover. In 
2016 Mr T was told by the insurer the policy didnt provide  cover  where work  was being 
carried out on premises owned, hired,  leased  or rented by the insured. 
Swinton accepted Mr T told it when taking out the policy  that N carried  out work  on its own 
properties. It also accepted the policy might not have  provided cover for a claim relating to 
this. But it said if that was case it would have ensured an otherwise valid claim was paid.  
Our investigator thought if Mr T had been  advised the policy  wouldnt cover  N for work on its 
own properties it wouldnt have taken out the policy. So she thought  Swinton should  refund 
the premiums it had paid (plus interest). 
Mr T accepted what the investigator had said but Swinton didnt agree. It didnt accept  the 
policy had been  mis-sold  and said it wasnt  clear  a claim  would have been affected.  It 
believed it had acted  appropriately by agreeing it would consider any claim where that was 
the case. And it argued if a refund  was provided  and a claim was subsequently made our 
service would still expect  it to pay that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought first about whether this policy was mis-sold to N. I understand Swinton accepts 
that when Mr T discussed its requirements  with it in 2014 he explained the nature of his 
business and this wasnt fully acknowledged by the agent who sold the policy.  And he was 
then advised to take out a policy which didnt provide  public liability  cover for damage  to 
property that was owned by his business.  
In fact the policy N took out was a tradesmans  policy when it appears a policy that was 
more suited to the requirements of a property  developer would have better  met its needs.  So 
I agree  Swinton didnt act properly here and Im satisfied  this policy  was mis-sold to N. 
Ive gone on to think about  whether N would have  taken out the policy if it had been properly 
advised. I appreciate  it could still have benefited  from other elements of the public liability 
cover. I recognise the policy also provided cover  for employers liability. But I understand the 
nature of Ns business was focussed  around  maintenance and development of its own 
properties. 
I think if Mr T had been advised  N wouldnt be covered for damage to its own properties  its 
likely hed have sought alternative cover which did provide that. Thats  supported by the fact 
that when Mr T found the policy didnt cover N for this he didnt continue with it and took out 
a separate policy  with another broker which did provide this cover. 
Ref: DRN22406322I recognise Swinton  says if a claim had been made  it would have stepped  into the shoes  of 
the insurer and covered  any claim that would otherwise  have been  payable. However, that 
isnt information  that would have  been  available to Mr T when deciding whether N should 
take out this policy.  And in any case the purpose  of insurance is to provide peace  of mind 
that potential risks are covered. I dont  think it likely  N would have felt comfortable relying on 
an assurance provided by Swinton when the policy terms  themselves say something 
different. 
As a result Im satisfied if N had been  correctly advised by Swinton at the time of purchase  it 
wouldnt have taken  out this policy. And where thats  the case our normal approach  is that 
the premiums paid for the policy should  be refunded  plus interest. 
I note what Swinton says about what it thinks would happen if a subsequent claim was 
made. I cant  say what the outcome would be on a complaint that hasnt been made to us. 
However, Swinton  explained what it felt the potential consequences of refunding premiums 
to Mr T would be. And he confirmed in writing that he understood this. I think thats a 
decision hes entitled to take on behalf  of N. 
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Swinton Group Ltd will need  to refund the premiums N 
paid for this policy and pay 8%* simple interest  per year on these amounts from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T on behalf of 
N to accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
* If Swinton thinks its obliged to deduct tax from any interest it must  send N a tax deduction certificate if N 
asks for one. 
Ref: DRN2240632