K821x#15complaint
Mr J is unhappy that, following a claim on his buildings insurance policy for damage caused 
to his flat by a water  leak from the flat above, the insurer, Ocaso SA, Compania  de Seguros 
y Reaseguros has:
refused to cover the cost of replacing  of the entire wooden  flooring that, before  the 
leak, had run continuously through his flat, including two rooms  where the flooring 
hadnt been damaged  by the leak;  and
refused him alternative accommodation  while repairs were  carried  out to his flat 
following the leak.
Mr J also says Ocasos loss adjuster failed to respond to his complaint reasonably,  that he 
shouldnt have to pay the £50 excess on the policy and that he hasnt had an electrical  
safety certificate for his bathroom repairs.
background
In February 2018  Mr Js flat was extensively damaged by water leaking from a burst  pipe in 
the flat above  his. He made  a claim on his local authoritys buildings insurance policy for the 
damage. Loss adjusters were appointed by the insurers, a schedule of repairs was agreed 
and the repairs  were carried out on Mr Js flat between  April and September  2018.
Mr J was unhappy with how Ocaso  handled his claim (broadly,  for the reasons Ive outlined 
above) and so he complained. Ocaso agreed  that parts of its complaints handling process 
were unacceptable  and offered Mr J £150  in compensation as a goodwill gesture. But it said 
it wasnt required under  the policy to replace the flooring in the two rooms in Mr Js flat that 
were undamaged by the water leak. And it said it wasnt required to offer him alternative 
accommodation because, according  to its loss adjuster,  he had basic amenities to allow  him 
to cook and wash while the repairs were carried out and therefore his flat was habitable.
So Mr J brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it upheld it. She thought  
Ocaso needed to work  out how much  the flooring would cost for the two rooms where it 
wasnt replaced as part of the claim  and pay 50% of this cost to Mr J for the loss of match.  
She also thought  Ocaso shouldve offered Mr J alternative accommodation and so should 
pay him £10 a day from when the repairs began to when they were completed.  She also 
thought Ocaso  should  pay Mr J an additional £150  (on top of the £150  it had already offered) 
as compensation  for its poor complaints  handling process. Finally, she thought  Ocaso 
should arrange for Mr J to get the electrical safety  certificate hed asked for.
Ocaso accepted our investigators view. Mr J didnt  and so his complaint came to me to 
decide.
I have issued two provisional decisions in this complaint. 
my first provisional decision
In my first provisional decision, I said I intended to uphold  Mr Js complaint and I gave my 
reasons as follows:
Mr Js policy  says it will not pay the cost of replacing  any undamaged items forming  part of a 
set, suite, carpet or other items of a common nature, design or use. These items are often  
Ref: DRN21207682referred to as matching  sets. The policy says this exclusion applies if the other item  or 
part of the set  can still be used and the loss only affects one part of the item. 
I understand that, before the leak, Mr Js flat had continuous wooden flooring throughout 
(without any door bars or similar  dividers).  And I understand  that the flooring in all except two 
rooms in his flat was damaged by the leak.
Following the repairs,  I understand Mr J now has door bars dividing two sets of rooms, so its 
no longer continuous. From  a photo Mr J has sent in, the colour  of the new wooden  flooring 
bears absolutely  no resemblance to the colour of the old  the difference  is startling. And   
Mr J says the new flooring  is 5mm thicker  than the old (which he also thinks  is a potential trip 
hazard). 
In my view, all of these things mean Mr J has suffered a significant loss as a result  of the 
repairs  because his flooring is no longer continuous and the new flooring bears no 
resemblance to the old. In other words, following his claim, Ocaso has failed to put Mr J back 
in the position he was in before  the leak, as it shouldve done. Because Mr Js flooring was 
continuous throughout his flat before the leak, I dont  think it would be right to treat it as a 
matching set. And so in these  very unusual and very specific circumstances, and based on 
what Ive seen so far, I think its fair and reasonable Ocaso should pay Mr J for the entire 
cost of replacing the wooden flooring in the two remaining rooms. I note Mr J has recently 
got a quotation for this work from the contractor  he says replaced the flooring elsewhere in 
his flat. It seems to me this would be a good starting  point from which  he and Ocaso should  
agree the amount Ocaso should pay Mr J (including  VAT)  for this work.
Mr J also thinks  Ocaso should  pay for these  two rooms to be redecorated once the flooring 
(and skirting)  is replaced. He estimates this will cost £1,000. My current  view is that its 
unlikely replacing  the flooring should  cause much damage to the existing decoration  of these 
rooms. And so I think asking Ocaso  to pay for them to be redecorated would amount to 
putting Mr J in a better position than he had been before his flat was damaged by the leak,  
and I dont think that would be fair. So I dont currently  think  it would be fair and reasonable 
to require Ocaso to pay for these rooms to be redecorated.
Turning next to alternative accommodation. Mr Js policy covers what it calls short  term 
accommodation costs for any period  where  the property is uninhabitable. Ocasos loss 
adjusters said Mr Js flat was habitable because  he had basic  amenities allowing him to cook 
and wash.
From what  Ive seen, I dont agree. I think it shouldve been  clear to Ocaso at the start, and 
because of the scale of the repairs that were  needed, that the flat wouldnt be habitable once 
work began.  The loss adjusters report said there was damage to the ceiling and walls in the 
kitchen as well as the wooden flooring. It said the hallway walls and ceiling were saturated 
and the flooring was affected.  It said the bathroom ceiling was damaged and, while  there 
was no evidence the bathroom  wall tiles were  damaged, there  may have been damp behind. 
It said flooring and walls in a bedroom  were damaged.  
Mr J has described  to us in detail the impact on him of the conditions  he had to live in while  
the repairs were carried  out. Among other  things, he says the removal  of the bathroom 
ceiling meant live wires were exposed. He says there was an electrical trip fault that left him 
without lighting in many  parts  of the flat for two weeks. He says his washing machine was 
disconnected at the start of the works until they were completed. He says his lounge and 
main bedroom  the only rooms unaffected by water damage   were used as a storage area 
Ref: DRN21207683for materials and furniture from other rooms, adding to his discomfort.  He says very high 
levels of airborne dust were present for weeks throughout the entire property. He says the 
brick dust generated by the stripping of the walls  and the removal of flooring in the kitchen 
made it an unhygienic place to prepare  food. Mr J has sent us photos and a video to support 
what he says. And while I havent been able to view the video, the photos present a very 
clear picture of the difficult conditions in which Mr J had to live.
It is hard to imagine how distressing and inconvenient all of this mustve  been for Mr J. Hes 
told us hes retired, which Im sure must  mean he had to spend more  time in the flat than he 
wouldve done if he was working. And from what I can see, the work went on for an extended 
period  from April to September 2018.  And, as Ive said,  I think  it shouldve  been clear to 
Ocaso (through its loss adjuster)  that the flat wasnt fit to be lived in at the outset. Taking all 
of this into account, its my current intention  to direct Ocaso to pay Mr J £2,500 for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused  him by not offering him alternative accommodation 
as I think it shouldve.
Moving on next to how Ocaso handled  Mr Js complaint. It has offered Mr J £150  in 
compensation for its poor complaints handing,  which  our investigator thought  should  be 
increased to £300.  I can see that there  were  failures  by Ocasos  loss adjuster in responding 
to Mr Js emails  about his complaint. These and other failings have been acknowledged  by 
Ocaso in its response  to Mr Js complaint. And I think  these  failings wouldve caused  Mr J 
some annoyance and frustration. But, from what Ive seen so far, I think Ocasos original 
offer of £150 is fair and reasonable for the failings it and Mr J have  highlighted,  and the 
impact theyve had on him. So its not my current intention to increase this amount to £300.
Mr J has also asked for an electrical safety  certificate to show the works in his bathroom 
comply with relevant  electrical standards. Ocaso  has agreed to this and I think  its fair and 
reasonable for Ocaso to arrange and pay for an inspection to be carried  out and a certificate 
issued.
Mr J also thinks  he should be refunded his policy excess of £50, since  the leak wasnt his 
fault. But its standard for an insurance  contract  to include a policy excess,  regardless of 
whos at fault. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require Ocaso to reimburse 
Mr J his excess on this policy.
responses to my first provisional decision
Both Mr J and Ocaso commented fairly  extensively  on my first provisional decision. Having 
considered their comments,  which changed my view on one aspect of this complaint, I 
issued a second provisional decision.
my second  provisional decision
In my second provisional decision, I said I still intended to uphold Mr Js complaint all the 
points Id set out in my first provisional  decision. But I said I now also intended to uphold his 
complaint on one further point. I gave my reasons as follows:
In my first provisional decision, I noted  Mr J thought Ocaso should pay for two rooms to be 
redecorated once  the flooring (and skirting)  was replaced and that he estimated this would  
cost £1,000. I said I thought it was unlikely replacing  the flooring would cause much  damage 
to the existing decoration of these rooms.  And I said I thought asking Ocaso to pay for them  
Ref: DRN21207684to be redecorated  would  amount to putting  Mr J in a better position  than he had been before 
his flat was damaged by the leak, which I didnt  think  would be fair.
In his response to my provisional decision,  Mr J says he doesnt think  the redecoration  costs  
would be betterment.  He says the work of redecorating is an intrinsic part of the job of 
replacing the flooring as this requires  the old skirting (which  is nailed in place) to be 
removed, so disrupting the plasterwork (as he says it did in other rooms), new skirting  to be 
fixed in position  and the plasterwork to be made  good. And Mr J says making good and 
redecorating the walls and the new skirting  was carried out as part of the original schedule of 
work in all other rooms  where flooring and skirting was replaced.
We asked Ocaso to confirm, for any of the rooms where the flooring was replaced  as part of 
the original repairs,  if the redecoration was carried out: 
(a) purely because  the flooring was being  replaced; 
(b) because the flooring  was being replaced and because of the nature of the other  repairs 
being carried out in the same room; or 
(c) because of damage  entirely  unconnected to replacement  of the flooring.
Weve had a response  from Ocaso  in which it says its been informed that any decoration 
work was required due to damage caused  by the insured incident and not as a consequence 
of the flooring being replaced  in any of the rooms. But its given  us no new evidence to show  
that this is the case.
So I cant be sure that the redecoration that was carried  out in the other  rooms  in Mr Js 
home was done  purely because the flooring  was replaced, rather  than because  of other 
flood damage.  But, having  reflected on this further, I dont think  this is a material 
consideration. Thats because (and contrary to what I said in my first provisional decision), 
Im persuaded by Mr Js argument that replacing the skirting would likely cause sufficient 
damage to things like the plasterwork  to mean  its fair and reasonable for Ocaso  to pay for 
the redecoration costs in these two rooms. Mr J says he has a quote  for redecorating  these 
rooms of £1,000 and this seems to me a reasonable figure.
In his response to my first provisional decision,  Mr J said he hadnt cashed  a cheque Ocaso 
sent him for £214.60 for electricity costs that its contractors incurred during the drying out 
works. Ocaso has confirmed that this will be reissued and I think thats fair and reasonable.
On all other aspects of this complaint, my views  are unchanged.  
Mr J would like me to increase my intended compensation award for the distress  and 
inconvenience Ocasos failure to offer him alternative accommodation while  extensive 
repairs were carried out to his flat has caused him from £2,500 to £5,000. Ocaso would  like 
me to reduce it to the amount our investigator  originally awarded of £1,640.  But Ive seen 
nothing new to make me think  my intended award  of £2,500 isnt fair and reasonable, for the 
reasons I gave in my first provisional decision.
Mr J would also like me to increase  my intended  award of £150  for poor complaints handling 
to £300. He says Ocasos  original offer of £150 was for failings before he brought  his 
complaint to us. He thinks he should  have more for the frustration and annoyance  hes 
experienced since then, in particular  he refers to delays in Ocaso submitting its business file 
Ref: DRN21207685to us. But, as I said in my provisional decision, I think £150  fairly and reasonably  reflects the 
distress and inconvenience Ocasos complaint handling caused him and what  Mr J says 
about this doesnt change  my view on this point.
Finally, I should note that, in response to my first provisional decision, Ocaso says it 
shouldnt have to pay for the flooring in the two rooms to be replaced because  of the policy  
term on matching sets. But it also says it feels the original adjudication to offer 50% 
contribution to this area to be fairer and more consistent, especially given the costing 
provided by the contractor. But for the reasons  I gave  in my decision, I dont think it would be 
right to treat Mr Js flooring as a matching  set. And, also for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision, I think its fair and reasonable Ocaso should pay Mr J for the entire cost 
of replacing the wooden  flooring in the two remaining  rooms.
responses to my second provisional  decision
Mr J has accepted my second provisional decision.  Ocaso hasnt responded to it. So Mr Js 
complaint has now come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen nothing  new that changes my views  on this complaint, as Ive set out in my two 
provisional decisions. So, as explained in those decisions  and for the reasons Ive given in 
them, I uphold Mr Js complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my two provisional  decisions, I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct 
Ocaso SA, Compania  de Seguros y Reaseguros to:
Agree with Mr J an amount, in line with the current quote Ive referred  to, to have the 
wooden flooring replaced in the two rooms in Mr Js flat what  werent affected by the 
leak with the same flooring he now has in the rest of his flat, and pay Mr J this 
amount (inclusive  of VAT).
Agree with Mr J an amount, in line with the current quote of £1,000  Ive referred  to in 
my provisional decisions to have these  two rooms redecorated and pay Mr J this 
amount.
Arrange and pay for Mr J to be provided  with the electrical safety certificate hes 
requested for the work carried  out on his bathroom.
Pay Mr J £2,500  in compensation for the distress and inconvenience  its failure  to 
offer him alternative accommodation while extensive  repairs  were carried out to his 
flat has caused  him. 
Pay Mr J £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its poor 
complaints handling  has caused  him.
Arrange to pay Mr J £214.60  for his electricity  costs  from the drying out works.
Ref: DRN21207686Ocaso SA, Compania  de Seguros y Reaseguros should pay Mr J the amounts Ive referred 
to in my last three bullet points above  within 28 days of the date we tell it Mr J has accepted 
my final decision. If it doesnt do this, Ocaso  SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros  
should pay Mr J 8% simple interest on these  amounts from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020..
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2120768