K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the way BUPA Insurance  Limited (BUPA) administered  their 
private medical insurance cover when Mr G was made redundant. They  say this has led to 
them being  billed £802 for treatment for Mrs G.
background
Mr G was a member of his employers private medical insurance scheme which  is 
administered by BUPA. Mr Gs wife, Mrs G, was also covered.
Mr G was made redundant  on 30 May 2018.
On 11 June, Mr G called BUPA to let it know that his employment would be ending and to 
ask it about options to continue his cover with BUPA  privately.
Two options of cover  were discussed in that call:
1.Continuation  of cover where the new policy would need  to start when the old policy 
ended and would broadly  reflect  the terms of the cover given by the employer; or
2.Starting as new members taking out fully underwritten  policies.
The cost and details  of each option were discussed and Mr G decided  to take out a personal 
policy to start on 16 June 2018 for him and Mrs G.
On 12 June, BUPA says it gave Mrs G authorisation for treatment.
On 19 June, BUPA says it was told by Mr Gs former employer that Mr Gs cover  and 
therefore also Mrs Gs cover  - had come to an end with the end of his employment  and that 
this was to be backdated  to 31 May 2019.  As a result, Mrs Gs treatment that had been 
authorised on 12 June hasnt been  paid by the scheme and shes  been billed £802 for it. 
Mr and Mrs G complained  to BUPA. They felt BUPA:
-should pay for the cost of the treatment it authorised for Mrs G;
-should know when  cover was ending and told them when this was; 
-told them  to start the new policy on 16 June which left a gap in cover;  and
-took too long to look into their complaint.
BUPA didnt  uphold  this complaint. It explained that it administers claims on behalf of Mr Gs 
former employer who had set up a health trust scheme for its employees and that it acts 
upon the employers instructions. As such, it wouldnt know  when an employees cover would 
end unless told by the employer or the employee.  Mr and Mrs G brought  their complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator looked into this matter and didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G didnt 
accept the investigators  findings. They wanted our service to ask BUPA a number of 
questions about  when the employer  had made  the last payment to BUPA for Mr and Mrs Gs 
cover and what period  this covered.  
The matter  was then passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN20947482In my provisional decision,  I explained  that I thought  our service could only consider Mr and 
Mrs Gs complaint about how BUPA sold and administered their personal policy with it. I set 
out my initial  findings in my provisional decision and an extract  of these are below. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Where theres a dispute about what  happened, Ive 
based my decision  on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of the 
evidence.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr and Mrs G that I think  the investigator has reached 
the right outcome in relation to their complaint about  how BUPA administered their 
personal policy. So I dont  uphold their complaint in relation  to this part of their 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive listened to the call when Mr G phoned BUPA on 11 June and Mr G confirms  on 
two occasions  that his policy with his former employer is ending  on 15 June.  Ive 
included below extracts  from the conversation with the agent.
When are you coming off the company scheme?  Er, 15 June
15 June, yes? Yes

And youre  coming  off the scheme on 15 June? Thats right
Towards the end of the call, Mr G says that means that my cover is to start from 16 
June and the agent confirmed this is correct.
So I think this was clear   Mr G was asked when his cover with his employer would 
end and he told BUPA that his cover was due to end on 15 June. As a result of this, 
BUPA suggested that his cover should start from 16 June.  Based on the information 
given to it by Mr G, this was a reasonable recommendation and wouldve ensured 
there wasnt a gap in cover. It was open to Mr G to agree  the end date of his private  
medical cover with his former employer as part of his redundancy package.  So I dont 
think its reasonable for Mr G to expect BUPA to know when his cover  was going to 
end.
While I appreciate this meant  that Mr and Mrs G ultimately had a gap in cover,  I cant 
agree that this was as a result of something that BUPA  got wrong. So I dont agree it 
needs to do anything to put things right in this matter.
time for BUPA to review Mr and Mrs Gs complaint
Mr and Mrs G complained  to BUPA that it took too long to look into their complaint.
Under the DISP  Rules, BUPA has 8 weeks to deal with the complaint from the point a 
complaint was raised. This starts from the date it was received.
BUPA logged Mr and Mrs Gs complaint on 24 September.  And it issued its final 
response on the complaint on 2 November 2018.  So I think  it was within time under 
the DISP rules. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  that BUPA has acted fairly and reasonably in this matter.  
Ref: DRN20947483Finally, if Mr and Mrs G want to explore the possibility of extending their cover under 
Mr Gs former employers  scheme or if it made  a mistake in the date it told BUPA that 
cover should  end then hed need  to raise  with his former employer. However, I note 
that in BUPAs final response letter to Mr and Mrs G, it has explained that if the 
former employer amends  the date the cover came  to an end, itd look to cover  Mrs 
Gs claim under the terms of the health trust scheme.;
I invited both parties to let me have anything  in response they thought was relevant. Both 
parties have confirmed receipt of my decision but havent raised anything  further  in 
response. 
my findings
I have re-considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has anything more to add Ive reached the same conclusions  as set 
out in my provisional  decision and for the same reasons.  
my decision  
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 June  2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2094748