K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  about the service  she received  from Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited (SDF) in relation to her catalogue shopping  account.
background
Miss B says she bought a sofa using her account with SDF in 2011. She says she reported 
that the sofa was in poor condition and she wasnt prepared to pay for it, but she says SDF 
refused to let her return it. She says shes since become aware that her account wasnt  put 
on hold and further default  charges have been  added. And she says the accounts  now been  
sent to a debt collection  agency.
Miss B also says she wants SDF to stop any action being taken against her via court  or debt 
collection agencies and to write  off the debt thats  accumulated over the past six years for a 
faulty sofa she no longer owns. She says she wants the adverse entries about the matter 
removed from her credit file. And she says she wants compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience shes experienced as a result of this matter.
SDF says Miss B ordered  a sofa costing £799 on 13 October 2011. It says its records dont 
show any contact from Miss B advising of a fault with the sofa until more recently. And it 
says had she contacted it about  the matter  all contact notes would be clearly visible on 
archive statements.
SDF also says Miss Bs account went into arrears in January 2013 and the account 
remained in arrears with no payment being received after June 2013. 
Our adjudicator thought Miss Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld.   
Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators  conclusions. She said she complained to SDF about  
the sofa by phone in 2012. She said shes tried to follow up the issue  with SDF numerous 
times. And she said SDF should provide  recordings of her phone calls and her log of 
complaints. 
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
I see Miss Bs made previous complaints to this service about  her dealings with SDF and I 
also see shes raised wide-ranging issues in this complaint, including some that have been 
considered previously. But my decision concentrates on matters  relating to the sofa Miss B 
bought in 2011, as this appears to be the central  focus of her current complaint.  
Miss B is clear  that she complained to SDF about the quality  of the sofa by phone in 2012  
and in writing in 2013. And she clearly feels that the issues  shes  currently experiencing in 
relation to her account with SDF are the result of its failure to address her complaint properly 
at the time.
Ref: DRN23165022SDF on the other hand says it has no record of Miss B contacting it about any problem with 
the sofa for a considerable time after she bought  it. SDF says its contact notes wouldve 
recorded if shed  phoned it about the matter. And it says theres reference in 
correspondence with Miss B in 2013  to her having  a couple of issues  regarding furniture. 
But it says it asked her to confirm what her complaint was about and she didnt respond.
From what  Ive seen, I cant conclude SDF had information that shouldve  led it to carry out 
an investigation in 2012 or 2013  into issues Miss B says she was experiencing with the sofa 
shed bought in October  2011. In these circumstances, I think its handling of Miss Bs 
account when  she stopped making payments in 2013 was reasonable. So, I cant  ask it to 
write off the debt thats accumulated since then or to take any of the other  action Miss Bs 
requested.
When Miss B made a formal complaint about  the matter some  years later, I think  it was 
reasonable for SDF to conclude that due to the passage of time,  it was unable to consider 
whether the sofa had been  faulty  when it was supplied to her several years previously. And I 
dont think its surprising  SDF didnt  have records of any phone  calls with Miss B in 2012, 
given the passage of time.   
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Miss Bs complaint.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint against  Shop Direct Finance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2316502