K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not do enough to protect  him from losing money 
to a scam.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some  key events here.
In February 2019  Mr J made two payments from his HSBC account of £600  and £2,896.50 
for what he later realised was an investment scam. 
Mr J contacted HSBC when he realised he had been scammed.  HSBC ultimately did not 
recover or otherwise  refund to Mr J the money  he had lost. Remaining unhappy, Mr J 
referred his complaint about HSBC to this service. As we have been  unable to resolve the 
matter informally, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold the complaint. I know  Mr J has been waiting 
for a long time and this is not the outcome he has been hoping for. I understand why he has 
wanted to do all he can to try to get his money  back.  And I have no reason  to doubt that Mr J 
has, as he says, been the victim of a scam. Im really sorry he has lost this money.  Here,  
however, I need  to decide whether it would be fair and reasonable for HSBC, in all the 
circumstances of this case,  to be held responsible  for this loss. Overall, Ive decided  that it 
wouldnt. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Thats not the end of the story though.  The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its 
customer if it makes  a payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although 
not necessarily proof) for believing  that the payment  instruction  was an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds  of its customer.  And regulated firms  like HSBC  are required to 
conduct their business  with due skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses  2) 
and to pay due regard to the interests  of its customers (Principle 6).
Ref: DRN24398842As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken
proactive steps  to identify and help prevent transactions   particularly unusual or
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud  or be the result of a scam. This is
particularly so in light of the environment  created  by the increase in sophisticated fraud and
scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
So taking all of this into account, I need  to decide if HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its
dealings with Mr J when  he made the payments of £600 and £2,896.50  whether it should  
have done more than it did before allowing the payments through.  I also need to decide  
whether HSBC should be required  to do more than it has already done in respect  of its 
efforts to recover the funds after Mr J reported  the scam.
Ive therefore  carefully reviewed Mr Js bank  statements to decide whether his payment 
instructions of £600 and £2,896.50 ought fairly and reasonably to have appeared unusual or 
uncharacteristic to HSBC  at the time (and therefore  whether  they were  payment instructions 
HSBC ought reasonably  to have contacted Mr J about before it allowed them through,  to 
check he was not at risk of financial harm).  Ultimately there is a balance  to be struck. 
Banks have obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in their customers best interests. But 
at the same  time, they cant be involved in every  transaction.  And here, whilst the payments 
of both £600 and £2,896.50 were greater than other  payments  leaving Mr Js account, I am 
not persuaded they were  sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic, taken separately or 
together, to say HSBC reasonably ought  to have  contacted Mr J before following the 
payment instructions he had given it. 
Ive thought about the payment instructions being  for new payees. But I dont think  this, or 
anything else about the payment instructions, means that HSBC  reasonably  ought  to have 
thought they were suspicious or that Mr J was at risk of financial harm.  
I understand that Mr J reported the scam to HSBC  on 9 February 2019. When  HSBC 
became aware  of the scam on 9 February  2019 it should have acted quickly  to try to recover  
Mr Js money  from the beneficiary  accounts.  Generally, Id expect a bank to respond  
immediately to an allegation of this type and to promptly inform the beneficiary banks. In this 
case it appears that HSBC got in touch with the beneficiary banks the next day, on 10 
February 2019. I think it should  have done so sooner than this. I know  this will be 
disappointing to Mr J and I do empathise with the situation he found himself in. Ultimately, 
however, it was the scammers who tricked  Mr J. And I am satisfied by the available 
information that the funds Mr J sent to the scammers had already been  utilised and spent by 
the payees before Mr J reported the scam  to HSBC  and that ultimately  HSBC  would not 
reasonably have been able to recover the money in any event. 
I appreciate Mr J has questioned why he received a refund from a different bank in respect 
to payments he sent from a separate account with that different bank as a result of what I 
understand was the same  scam. However,  I need  to decide this complaint about HSBC on 
its own individual merits. And for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  it would be fair or 
reasonable to hold HSBC responsible for Mr Js loss in this particular case. 
Ref: DRN24398843my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2021.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2439884