K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains CIS General Insurance Limited hasnt settled his contents insurance  claim 
fairly and is unhappy  with the time its taken too.
background
Mr B has a contents insurance policy underwritten by CIS. The policy is a joint one  Miss D 
is the other party to the policy. Ive referred  to Mr B throughout the majority of this decision 
as Miss D has had very little involvement  in the claim and the complaint.
In March 2018 Mr Bs house was burgled  whilst  he was away  so he made a claim on his 
policy. CIS accepted  the claim and agreed to pay him just over £26,000 in settlement.
Mr B was unhappy with CISs handling  of his claim and complained to CIS. He complained 
about a number of issues, including CIS cash settling his claim based on discounted  rates it 
would have got had it replaced  items  hed claimed  for, not settling a claim hed made for his 
cigar collection  fairly  and taking too long to settle the claim.
CIS looked into Mr Bs complained and agreed  to remove the discounts it had applied  to 
some of the items it had cash settled. It also agreed  to reconsider Mr Bs cigar collection 
claim if he provided evidence to substantiate  the whole collection. Finally  CIS offered Mr B 
£25 in compensation for delays. Mr B was still unhappy and so complained  to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Bs complaint. They didnt recommend that CIS do 
anything further  as they didnt think CIS had handled  Mr Bs claim unfairly. Mr B didnt agree 
with our investigators recommendations, and asked  for an ombudsman  to consider his 
complaint. So thats what  Ive done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive emailed both parties about this complaint, and Ive spoken to Mr B too. Ive told both 
parties that I thought there had been times when CIS had done more  than I would  have 
expected. For example,  CIS agreed to make an interim  payment  to Mr B so that he could 
replace some of the items that had been  stolen quickly. CIS didnt have to do this, but 
agreed to do so given  the impact the burglary had on Mr B. Ive also told both parties  that I 
thought there have  been times when CIS should have done more.  For example, Ive told 
them that I thought CIS hadnt  handled Mr Bs cigar collection claim fairly.
Both sides have commented  on what Ive said about  the cigar  collection claim. Ive taken 
those comments into account, and having  done  so I still think  that CIS hasnt handled Mr Bs 
cigar collection  claim  fairly. Ill explain why.
Mr B had a large cigar collection before the burglary. His collection consisted of boxes  of 
Cuban and non-Cuban  cigars and individual cigars  which werent  in boxes. Both parties 
accept that the collection  was stolen  in the burglary   the boxes were left behind.  Mr B 
showed the loss adjuster the boxes that were  left behind when he first visited,  and the loss 
adjuster took photos of those boxes.  Ive seen those photos  and Im satisfied that Mr B 
Ref: DRN21152872showed the loss adjuster the boxes for the whole of his collection  in other words, the boxes 
for his Cuban and his non-Cuban cigars. 
Shortly after the loss adjuster visited,  Mr B sent CIS a list of the Cuban cigars  that had been 
stolen  valued at just over £6,000. CIS agreed  to pay for these. Approximately four weeks 
later, Mr B sent CIS a list of the non-Cuban cigars that had been stolen  valued at just 
under £3,500. CIS said that this was an additional claim, and declined  this claim for 
additional cigars saying  that it would have expected Mr B to know how much  his collection 
was valued and saying it was declining  this additional claim because  of the delay. I dont 
think, given that Mr B showed CIS the boxes  for the whole of his collection, its accurate to 
say that the cigars Mr B claimed  for that he said were worth under £3,500 was a claim for 
additional cigars.  Mr B claimed  for the whole of his collection,  but took approximately  four 
weeks to give a valuation  for both the Cuban  and non-Cuban cigars. Mr B has explained why 
it took him longer to get a valuation for his non-Cuban cigars,  and I accept the explanation 
he gave. It took Mr B longer to get accurate valuations  for his non-Cuban cigars. So I dont 
think it was fair of CIS to turn down the claim for the non-Cuban cigars on the grounds of 
delay alone, particularly given that CIS was still waiting for the police report at the time. In 
other words, I dont think either of the two reasons CIS initially gave  that this was an 
additional claim  and that there  was too much of a delay  for declining  this part of the claim 
was fair.
Mr B says CIS told him that it would  pay the additional claim if he provided bank 
statements to show that hed bought the cigars in question. Ive seen what CIS said,  and it 
said it would  consider  the claim, which isnt the same as saying it would pay. Mr B has 
provided bank  statements  showing that he bought cigars. I agree with CIS that those 
statements dont necessarily show that Mr B had a collection worth approximately £9,000. 
Having seen the statements, CIS said that it wasnt going to pay Mr B more  than £6,000  for 
the cigars that were  stolen. In other words, that it wasnt going to pay more than the amount 
it agreed to pay for the Cuban  cigar  part of Mr Bs collection. I dont  think  thats fair. I say that 
because CIS agreed to accept the boxes  that were  left after the burglary were  evidence that 
Mr B had a large collection. Those boxes werent  just the boxes for his Cuban cigars  they 
included the boxes for his non-Cuban cigars  so it doesnt make sense for CIS to limit what  
its prepared to pay to the value of Mr Bs Cuban  cigars. Mr B has provided  evidence that the 
cigars that would have  been in the boxes that were  left after the burglary had a value of 
around £9,500.  So I dont  think that its fair of CIS to refuse to pay that amount. 
Ref: DRN21152873Having looked  at the rest of the claim, I can see that CIS has now, for example, agreed to 
remove the discounts it originally applied to items  it had cash settled. I can also see, for 
example, that Mr B is unhappy  with the valuations CIS has given for some of his items, but 
CIS relied  on experts  to come to the valuations it did. In the circumstances, I dont think  I can 
say that it handled this aspect unfairly. So other than telling CIS to pay the balance of Mr Bs 
cigar collection  claim,  Im not going  to ask CIS to do more  than it has already offered to do.
my final decision
My Final  Decision is that CIS General Insurance Limited should pay Mr B an additional 
£3,431 in settlement of his cigar  collection claim and pay Mr B the £25 it has offered  in 
compensation for delay. These sums  would be in full and final settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2115287