K820x#14Complaint
Mr E complains, in summary, that Nationwide Building Society:
-didnt deal correctly  with his debit card dispute  about a dry-cleaning payment;  and
-failed to explain why it concluded  that his claim did not fall within the chargeback scheme 
categories.
Background
Mr E had four items dry cleaned, for which he paid £31 using his Nationwide VISA  debit 
card.  When  his items  were returned to him, one was still stained.  That item was cleaned  
again twice, but the stains  were still not wholly removed.
In response to his claim for a refund of £6.50  for the cleaning of the item, Nationwide said it 
couldnt make a chargeback claim because the transaction was classed  as a cardholder/
merchant dispute.   The society added that it didnt  fit into any of the chargeback categories.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said,  in summary:
-Nationwide could  have made  a chargeback request because the dispute was about the 
quality of the service  Mr E had received from the dry cleaner.
-But card issuers are not under an obligation  to make chargeback requests if they believe 
theres little chance of their being  successful.
-Chargebacks are determined by the card schemes rules,  and are not a right.  It was 
likely that Nationwide  had determined that Mr Es claim had little prospect of success.
-The Dry Cleaners had assured Nationwide that they had provided their services to the 
best of their ability and there was nothing more  they could have done.  The fact that not 
all stains were removed didnt mean the service hadnt been provided to a high standard.
-Whilst Nationwide could have  provided  Mr E with a better explanation, he didnt consider 
that this had caused a sufficient degree  of inconvenience to warrant a payment of 
compensation.
Mr E asked for his complaint to be reviewed.  In doing so he said, in summary:
-His initial complaint  to Nationwide had been  restricted by the limitations of its secure 
message system.   He did not mention any discussion with the Dry Cleaners.
-He noted that the investigator  had taken the view that Nationwide had been wrong to say 
his claim was not covered by the chargeback scheme.  
-When the society had responded  to his complaint  it did not say anything about  whether 
or not the claim  would have been  likely  to succeed.  It cannot  be right for Nationwide  to 
have said subsequently  that the claim would not succeed, not least  because  it had not 
received enough information from him to come to such  a conclusion.
-The investigator seemed to have made  his own decision relating to the merits of the 
claim, on the basis of facts and documents which  Nationwide  didnt have.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN27575432I agree  with the investigator about  Nationwides initial explanation relating to the chargeback 
scheme.  Whilst the detail  of the rules has changed over the years (both on their precise 
wording and also their numbering), a card issuer can make  a chargeback claim to VISA for 
goods or services  which were either  not provided  as described or were defective.
But that leads  directly on to the question of whether or not Nationwide should  have  made 
such a claim.  I recognise what Mr E has said about the information he had initially provided 
to Nationwide  (and I also note he has since made a further complaint about  Nationwides  
messaging facility, which  is being  reviewed separately).  But  in looking at the matter overall, 
and to try to help resolve Mr Es complaint, I consider it was appropriate for the investigator 
to have gone on to consider what might otherwise have happened   and whether a 
chargeback claim might  have had a reasonable prospect of success.  Mr E had said he had 
been adversely  financially affected  to the extent of £6.50, and he had also sought 
compensation for how Nationwide had dealt with the dispute and the explanations it had 
provided.
I share  the investigators  view that a chargeback claim for this transaction  held little prospect 
of success.  A dry-cleaning  service is generally  provided on a best endeavours basis, 
without any guarantee that all stains  can be removed  especially for a white item, such  as 
here.  Indeed, Mr E took the item back twice  for further cleaning.  On balance,  I consider it 
likely that the Dry Cleaners had very probably  done as much  as they reasonably  could.  So 
even if Nationwide  had interpreted the chargeback rules correctly  I find it unlikely that Mr E 
would have received a refund of the £6.50  he had paid for the item to be cleaned.
Ive also come to the same conclusions as the investigator did on the question  of additional 
compensation, for much the same reasons.  In doing so Ive had regard to the monetary 
value of the underlying claim,  and the proportionality of any resultant distress  and/or  
inconvenience arising from the societys actions.   In all the circumstances, I do not consider 
that it would  be appropriate to make  any award of compensation in this respect.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my Final  Decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2757543