K821x#15complaint
Mr R1 said that Admiral Insurance Company Limited told him it wouldnt renew  his telematics  
motor insurance policy  as he fell into the bottom  5% of drivers. But Mr R1 said he wasnt  
warned about  this and so the policy lapsed.  He thought he would have to declare the 
declined renewal to future  insurers. He was also unhappy that Admiral took the full 8 weeks 
to respond to his complaint. Mr R1 is represented in this matter by his father, Mr R2. 
background
Admiral explained  the process  it takes  in reviewing its drivers and deciding on future  
renewals. It said that it notifies a driver he is in the bottom 5% after 60 days  and then the 
driver is monitored for 30 further days driving. It then takes 6 days to review the data. Its 
renewal process takes 31 days. Admiral said that this process  wouldnt have been 
completed in the time left on Mr R1s policy. So it declined  to renew it. It offered Mr R1 £30 
compensation for the time it took to respond  to his complaint. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought it was for 
Admiral to decide on its business processes. But he thought that Admiral  should have 
warned Mr R1 that his policy  may not be renewed,  even though this may not have changed 
the outcome.  He thought  this was in keeping with policy terms. 
The investigator thought Admiral should provide Mr R1 with a letter  explaining that there 
wasnt sufficient time to review his driving  and so the policy wasnt renewed.  And he thought  
it should offer Mr R1 a further £70 for his trouble and upset. But he thought Admiral had 
responded to the complaint within the required timescales.
Admiral replied that the non-renewal neednt be declared to future insurers  and it also 
provided Mr R1 with a letter to this effect. Mr R2 said the letter met their requirements.  But 
Admiral declined to pay Mr R1 any further compensation as it said it hadnt made an error. It 
asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaints come  to me for a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Admiral wrote to Mr R1 11 months into his policy  to explain that it wouldnt be 
renewing. But it was aware that Mr R1 fell into the 5% category three  months earlier. From  
this date, it would have started  the 60 days monitoring  before notifying Mr R1. Then, if 
appropriate, there would follow the 30 days improvement before the 6 days  review  and 31 
days renewal process.   
I can see that the telematics policy states:
If your overall  driving score is amongst the bottom  5% of customers  after any 60 days  of 
continuous monitoring, we will contact you to advise that driver improvement is needed.
In its response to Mr R2s complaint, Admiral  said that it made its decision not to renew at 
the start of its renewal  process. It said this allowed Mr R1 to complete his years driving and 
gain a years No Claims Discount (NCD), and sufficient time to look elsewhere  for new 
cover. 
Ref: DRN24272962So I can see that Admiral  followed  its process  and decided not to follow  through with the 60 
days monitoring as this process may not have been completed within the life of the policy.  I 
think thats fair and reasonable.  I think its for Admiral to decide on its business  processes 
and systems  and this isnt something wed normally interfere with.
But the letter  that Admiral sent to another family member, Ms R, then the policy 
administrator, was headed Confirmation of Policy Cancellation.  It stated that the policy  
would be cancelled from its expiry  date. The letter didnt explain that the non-renewal  
wouldnt be recorded and didnt need to be declared to future insurers.  I think  this was 
unclear and confusing for the family. 
Admiral paid Mr R1 £30 compensation for the time it took to respond  to his complaint. This 
was a gesture  of goodwill.  Admiral responded to the complaint within  the required time, so I 
cant say it did anything  wrong in this. 
But Mr R2 said he thought  Admiral had delayed responding to the complaint so that the 
policy would lapse. I havent seen evidence to show  this. But I think Admiral  could have been  
clearer in its communication with the family. I think it could have explained why it wasnt 
renewing the policy and so avoided  the trouble and upset experienced by them thinking the 
policy non-renewal  would affect future cover. Instead, the explanation was only provided 
after the policy had lapsed. 
Admiral has provided Mr R1 with a letter explaining  that he neednt  declare the non-renewal  
to future insurers. But I agree with the investigator  that it could have avoided trouble  and 
upset by explaining things earlier and clearly.  He recommended a further £70 compensation 
for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id require in similar circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to pay Mr R1 £70 further compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused 
by its level of service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019. 
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2427296