K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Gold 
Service packaged bank  account, which took place in December 1998.
He says that Lloyds didnt  make  it clear that he could have a fee-free account.
background
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt  think that Lloyds had mis-sold the Gold 
Service account. Mr R disagreed so the complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  mis-sold packaged  bank  accounts  on our website and Ive taken that into 
account when  considering  this complaint.
Mr R has said that it wasnt made clear that fee-free accounts were available.  However,  it 
appears that Mr R held a fee-free account before opening an account  with Lloyds. And 
although he said he didnt  use that account,  Im satisfied that before approaching Lloyds to 
open an account, he was generally aware that fee-free accounts  were available.
Mr R says that he was led to believe that Lloyds  didnt provide fee-free accounts. Whereas 
Lloyds says that it did offer fee-free accounts and it was up to Mr R to decide  which  account 
he wanted.
As the sale of the account took place so long ago, there is very limited  information available. 
And where  matters are in dispute  and evidence is lacking, as is the case  here,  I have to 
base my decision on what I think was most  likely to have happened  based on everything  that 
is available.
At the time,  the Gold Service account cost £8 per month, and in return it provided worldwide 
travel insurance, card and purchase protection, extended warranty. It also provided a £100 
interest free overdraft  benefit with preferential  interest rates  on balances overdrawn by more 
than that amount, amongst other  benefits.
Based on the available evidence Mr Rs overdraft  limit was £2,500. And the statement he 
provided suggests that he was using his overdraft.
So given that Mr R previously held a fee-free account; was regularly using the overdraft on 
the Gold Service account; and was able to use the travel insurance that came with the 
account (as hes said he occasionally travelled at the time), I think  its more likely  that he 
agreed to the account because he was attracted to the account benefits  - rather  than 
because he was misled  into thinking  he had no choice but to agree to a fee-paying account.
I appreciate that Mr R may not have used many of the account benefits,  but I dont think  this 
means the account was mis-sold as Mr Rs testimony suggests he was at least aware of the 
travel insurance. And although he said he already had breakdown  cover at the time, this was 
not a feature  of the account  so I dont think this meant it was mis-sold either.
Ref: DRN23676082I cant see anything to suggest that Lloyds  asked for detailed information about  Mr Rs 
circumstances or recommended he apply specifically for the Gold  Service  account. So I 
dont think it was sold on an advised  basis. This means that Lloyds didnt have  to check if it 
was right for him, but it did have  to give him important information about  the account  and 
benefits so he could decide  for himself whether it would meet  his needs.
Based on what Mr R has said it appears that he was told about the travel insurance  provided 
by the account.  And I think its likely that, in making  the account  seem attractive to Mr R, 
Lloyds wouldve mentioned what benefits  the account came  with. It also appears that Mr R 
was made  aware  that the account came with a fee. So, although I cant be sure if Mr R was 
given all of the important information  about  the account, equally Ive not seen anything about 
Mr Rs circumstances at the time that makes me think he wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to the account had he been  given more information about it.
Therefore, having  considered what Mr R has said and provided, alongside all the information 
that is available,  Im not persuaded  that Mr R was mis-led into agreeing to the Gold  Service  
account. On balance I think it was more likely that he agreed to it because  of the benefits it 
provided, but perhaps with the benefit  of hindsight, he now thinks it has been  poor value. So 
in conclusion, I dont  think it was mis-sold. 
I appreciate that Mr R may be unhappy  with my decision, but I hope I have been able to 
explain why I dont  think the Gold Service account was mis-sold. 
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2367608