K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  he was sold by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) alongside a loan. 
background
Mr P took out three loans  in total. This decision is only about the third loan. Any complaint  he 
had about the other  two loans has been  resolved. 
Mr P took out the third loan in December 1997 for £8,800 (account number ending 9460) 
along with PPI. Mr P paid upfront for the policy and borrowed an additional  £1,361.30  to pay 
for it. This is called a single premium policy. Mr P could claim on the policy if he wasnt able 
to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Mr P complained to HSBC that the policy had been  mis-sold  to him. HSBC agreed  and made 
an offer of compensation to Mr P.
Mr P wasnt  happy with the amount  HSBC  offered so asked  us to step in.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and was satisfied that Mr P was being 
compensated as we would expect. Mr P didn't agree.  
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If we find that a business has mis-sold  a policy we expect it to  as far as is possible  put 
the policy holder  in the financial position they should be in but for the PPI. This would include 
a refund of what they paid toward  the policy and any associated  interest  or costs. Id also 
expect a business to add 8% per year simple  interest to compensate for the time the policy  
holder had been out of pocket. 
cost of the PPI premium
Mr P borrowed £1,361.30 for the PPI. He says he is owed all of that back and not the 
£722.62 (before  interest) being offered by HSBC. But Mr Ps loan closed before it ran to term 
when it was defaulted. At that point, HSBC  cancelled  the PPI policy  and a refund  of £813.77 
was paid to the loan account. So Mr P has already had a significant proportion of the upfront 
cost of the PPI rebated to his account.  
This means  Mr P is only owed the difference between what  he borrowed for PPI and what  he 
got back when  it was cancelled - £547.53.  
associated interest
At the outset, as Mr P borrowed more to pay for PPI, the policy attracted interest of £394.46. 
But as the loan didnt run to term he didnt pay all of this  Ive seen he paid £158.66. 
Ref: DRN29196162So in total Mr P paid £547.53 toward the policy and £158.66 in interest  a total of £706.19.
associated costs
HSBC has also included,  as part of the compensation offered, to repay to Mr P an early 
repayment cost it had previously charged  him of £16.44. 
The above  three payments total £722.62. 
simple interest
And HSBC  has added simple interest at a rate of 8% on the extra amounts Mr P has paid, 
for the time he has been  out of pocket. This totals  £1,171.75.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied HSBCs total offer of gross  compensation  of 
£1,894.37 has been correctly calculated.  
And I note that Mr P made  a successful claim on the policy. If HSBC had wanted to take the 
amount claimed  off the total compensation offered, Id likely say that was fair. That is 
because the compensation offered puts Mr P in the position, so far as possible, he would 
have been in if he didnt have PPI at all. But that would mean he wouldnt have been  able to 
make a claim. But HSBC  hasnt done this in Mr Ps case. So hes been  put into the position 
where he has benefitted from the successful claim monies as well as being refunded his PPI 
premium in full.  
I dont think HSBC needs to do anything more.  
Finally, I note Mr P has commented that when he made his claim on the policy,  he wasnt  
paid the correct amount by the insurer. I see the adjudicator has already informed Mr P that 
if he has any queries about this, then they should be addressed  to the policy insurer  in the 
first instance. The adjudicator also made  clear that the insurer would be aware that a 
successful mis-sale complaint had been  made and compensation had been offered. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. It is up to him to decide whether he 
wishes to accept HSBC  UK Bank Plcs offer of compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2919616