K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC wont honour a claim hes made for a 
refund under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, despite  there  being  a breach of 
contract. 
background
I issued my provisional decision in June 2019.  I explained why I was planning to uphold  
Mr Vs complaint. An extract of that provisional  decision  is set out below:
In March 2018 Mr V took his car for an MOT at a dealership who Ill call X. But when the 
car failed,  because the offside front brake  was binding; he took it elsewhere  to get it fixed 
and retested. The new garage cleaned and stripped the brake callipers and the car then 
passed its MOT. Mr V paid £102 for this work,  on 30 March 2018, using his Tesco  credit  
card. Ill call the garage that did this work Z.
But Mr V had problems  with the car. He took it back to X and they agreed that the brakes 
were still binding. As a gesture of goodwill  they agreed to refund his initial  MOT fee and the 
retest fee hed paid to Z. 
Mr V then took the car to yet another garage  who replaced the disc, pad and calliper. Mr V 
thought this demonstrated that Z hadnt  done the work correctly and he asked  Z to refund 
the £102 hed paid them. But they wouldnt, so Mr V brought  a claim to Tesco under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (s75).  He said that Tesco were equally liable and he 
wanted his money  refunded as he said thered been  a breach of contract.
But Tesco refused to refund the money Mr V had outlaid. They said they couldnt establish 
whether there was anything wrong,  with the work Z had completed, as Mr V had now 
repaired the fault.  
So Mr V brought  his complaint to this service and our investigator took a look at the 
evidence. She talked to Z who explained  theyd cleaned the brakes  and the car had 
subsequently passed the MOT. They said this was quite usual in these circumstances. She 
didnt think Mr V had provided  any evidence to explain  what  Z had done wrong so she didnt 
feel she could support his complaint. She went on to consider if Tescos could have 
considered a chargeback but she didnt  think they could and for the same reasons that they 
couldnt consider  a s75 claim.
But Mr V disagreed. He explained that Z had initially been prepared  to refund his money  and 
he went on to say that hed taken the car back to X later and they had confirmed  Z hadnt  
done anything  to the car
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Tesco but I agree with the investigators view and Ill set out my 
reasoning below.
Ref: DRN20487992Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made with a credit card, it might be 
possible to recover the money paid either through a chargeback  or a section 75 claim.  This 
section of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974  says that in certain circumstances, a finance 
provider can be responsible for a breach of contract or a misrepresentation made  by the 
supplier. 
So if Mr V can prove theres  been  a breach of contract: if his car wasnt  fixed by Z, he may 
be able to raise a successful claim against  Tescos to have his money  refunded.
And here Im persuaded that there is evidence of a problem with the brakes  and that Z 
therefore had probably not completed  the work  correctly. I say that because:
Mr V returned his car to the manufacturers dealership only a couple  of weeks  after 
the MOT and they have told us that the brakes were still binding
Mr V has shown  us an invoice for extensive  works, to the same brake unit, that he 
subsequently had completed
there seems little reason why Mr V would complain about  brake  issues  so soon after 
his MOT or why he would have significant remedial work completed, unless he was 
experiencing problems. 
Admittedly, Mr V didnt give Z a chance  to inspect the car again. But I dont think  he had to. 
He would be understandably  disappointed  with the work theyd completed;  may have been  
sceptical about  whether  he would get independent advice from them to get the problem 
resolved and may have been  concerned about the quality of any rework they completed, 
given the problems he had experienced.
He did visit X who are a manufacturer's dealership. I think Mr V couldve been expected to 
rely on the information they gave him.
So I think there is evidence that the work  wasnt completed satisfactorily  and that Tesco  
should therefore refund the money Mr V laid out on the work  Z completed  unsatisfactorily.
Im not sure why X refunded the MOT and MOT  retest  fees as it seems  likely their initial 
diagnosis was correct.  But they have done,  so it isnt fair for Mr V to get the £30 retest fee 
back again. Im therefore asking Tesco  to refund £72, that being  the £102  bill less the 
refunded retest fee.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I am likely  to uphold  this complaint and ask Tesco 
Personal Finance  PLC to refund £72 to Mr V and add 8% simple  interest  per annum if hes 
already paid the credit card bill. If he hasnt paid the bill yet then the account will need to be 
recalculated as if Mr V had never  paid the £72.
Ref: DRN20487993Mr V didnt provide  any further comments before the deadline but Tesco  did. They reminded 
me that for a section  75 claim to be successful under the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 a 
number of conditions  needed to be met. They said one of those conditions was that the 
value of the goods or services needs to be more than £100 and less than £30,000.  They 
said that in this case as the MOT had been  removed the cost for the work on the brakes  was 
only £72 and as this was less than £100 the claim should be rejected.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the evidence in the case to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Tesco are correct to refer me to the financial limits  of claims under  section  75 and I 
apologise to Tesco and Mr V for missing this.
As Mr V had the MOT  retest fee back, his claim was not for £102 but for £72 and this is less 
than the lower limit for a claim  under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
So this information  has persuaded  me to change my provisional  decision as I think, given the 
limitations imposed  on them by the Consumer Credit  Act 1974,  Tesco  have been fair and 
reasonable in rejecting Mr Vs claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2048799