K820x#14complaint
Miss W feels  that Nutmeg Saving and Investment Limited unfairly changed the way it agreed 
to reimburse her after it caused delays to the transfer of her funds to a new platform 
provider. She also feels  its offer of £300 in lieu of trouble and upset doesnt reflect the time,  
money and stress this has caused her.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 8 February 2019.  A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Miss W did not agree with my findings, reiterating  her view that Nutmeg  had agreed  to her 
proposed new share purchases and to pay compensation based on this comparison. She 
also reiterated why she felt the prices  it used in assessing her loss were  not right, and also 
that it should be based on her having been able to buy 23 Amazon shares rather than 20. 
I provided Nutmeg with Miss Ws comments,  including her detailed  calculations about the 
issue of the appropriate Amazon figures, and asked for its comments.
It said it accepted  my proposed compensation, and offered  the following explanation of its 
loss calculation:
Amazon shares are listed on a US exchange  and their share  price  is listed in dollars so 
when purchasing Amazon shares, the platform (Broker) would  convert a clients funds (in 
this case British pounds) into dollars  to purchase  the shares. The same  thing happen when 
one sells US-listed shares,  they are converted back to British pounds.
Its calculations for the exchange rate and share  price  were based on the close  of business  
of each of the days in question - providing  a fair set of standardised figures.
I felt this was a satisfactory explanation  of its calculations and forwarded it to Miss W to 
check if she had any further comments about its methodology.
Miss W reiterated  that Nutmeg had clearly stated  that it would buy/pay for the difference in 
the number of shares she could have bought in April compared to May last year, and she 
didnt believe its recent statement  addressed  this issue.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In my provisional decision I outlined why I felt Nutmegs calculations  had been reasonable, 
and still believe this. Overall, I feel I have addressed Miss Ws key arguments,  even though  I 
accept she doesnt  agree with my view, and do not believe  her recent comments  affect my 
view about the merits of this complaint, including the appropriate basis  for assessing 
compensation.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  I am satisfied that Nutmeg should pay 
Miss W an additional £500 in lieu of its admitted mistake, considering the likely impact  this 
has had on her. But I do not believe  its calculations  were unreasonable so do not expect it to 
pay any further compensation.
Ref: DRN27938212my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Nutmeg Saving and Investment Limited to pay a total of 
£800 in compensation. This includes the £300 it originally offered and may have already 
paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W  to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27938213copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Miss W feels that Nutmeg Saving and Investment Limited unfairly  changed  the way it agreed to 
reimburse her after it caused  delays  to the transfer of her funds to her a new platform provider. She 
also feels its offer of £300 in lieu of the trouble  and upset this has caused doesnt reflect time,  money 
and stress this has caused  her.
background
In April 2018  Miss W sought to transfer her funds  but due to an error by Nutmeg  some of the funds  
were not transferred across.  Miss W complained that shed been planning  to purchase new shares  
and the delay  resulted in her incurring  losses as these had risen in price in the intervening period.
Nutmeg offered  to make  up the difference between the amount  of shares she was able to purchase 
and how many shares she wouldve been able to purchase if the transfer completed correctly  on 19 
April 2018. This was based  on her original statement that shed planned to buy Amazon shares. It 
also offered  to pay £300 in lieu of the trouble  and upset  this had caused.
In her complaint to this service Miss W said she used Amazon  shares as an example to indicate  
market movements, not as confirmation shed intended to buy these  shares  in particular. She said 
that when she spoke to Nutmegs complaints handler he said she could purchase any shares she 
wanted using the money that should have been transferred and it would  pay the appropriate 
compensation.
An investigator at this service did not feel her complaint  should be upheld.  She agreed that Nutmegs  
representative had been ambiguous  during one or two of the later calls but pointed out that Miss W 
had originally  said,  in writing, that shed intended to purchase Amazon  shares. Given this, she didnt 
think the call handler had needed to clarify this issue during the calls.
She said if Miss W had always intended to purchase Ocado shares, as she mentioned in passing  in 
one/two of the later calls,  shed have said so in her original complaint. Instead,  it appeared  that shed 
subsequently changed her mind.
Miss W did not agree,  and said:
She repeatedly  asked  Nutmeg if she could purchase  any shares  she wanted to and was 
repeatedly told yes.  This so-called  'ambiguity' gave her the impression  she was free to 
purchase Ocado shares. At no point did the representative  specifically say she had to 
purchase Amazon shares in which case she would have done
She stated specifically  on the phone that shed bought Ocado  shares and was not questioned 
about this at that time
Nutmeg only challenged her after she shared  the purchase order many weeks after trying to 
'resolve' this issue  unsuccessfully with her platform provider
Nutmeg intentionally  or unintentionally mislead her and she should  not suffer  for this
The investigator did not agree with Miss Ws account of events, and said:
Having listened  to the relevant calls, she did not feel Miss W had asked if she could purchase 
any shares and the representative hadn't confirm  that she could do so
In any case Nutmegs obligation was to put her back  in the position she would have been in if 
the error had not occurred
As she didn't place any order we could  not definitively  say which shares  she would have 
purchased at that time
Ref: DRN27938214Miss W responded:
She was puzzled as to why all the discussions  with Nutmeg  about  buying  any shares  is not on 
record and believes  Nutmeg has still not provided  her or this service  with copies of all the 
phone calls
This time was very difficult for her due to her Dad dying suddenly  alongside other family 
problems, both of which required extensive travel  abroad to places with problematic and 
expensive phone and internet access
These circumstances did not allow her to confirm, in writing, the conversations shed had with 
Nutmeg
It was very distressing constantly having to chase Nutmeg, with very little response and 
promised phone calls not materialising. She also had to do all the chasing with the new 
provider
It was only on 6 July, more than a month after the purchase,  that Nutmeg  mentioned that it 
would not be compensating her for losses based on her Ocado shares purchase
Nutmeg calculated that she could have purchased  23 shares  whereas she could have 
purchased 23.57  shares (obviously adding  further funds to fully fund the extra share).  It 
cannot assume she would  leave  the 0.57 shares worth  of funds  uninvested
She is concerned  that it had took the $ value  difference  in the share price  as opposed  to the £ 
value. She is a UK investor so her investments  should be valued in pounds. An investment of 
25334.31 on18 April 2018  in Amazon shares would have been valued at $37,949 (23.57 
shares x $1610.15) or 28.534.57 ($37,949*0.7519) on the 25 May 2018.  This then leads to a 
difference of 3.200.41
She would also like to know the basis for Nutmegs  exchange rates as this leads to a 387 loss 
compared to the calculation she put forward in her complaint
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. In this case I agree with the adjudicator  and for primarily  the 
same reasons.
Firstly, I see no reason  to doubt  that Nutmeg has now provided copies  of all the phone calls it has 
available (which this service has shared with Miss W), and Ive seen no evidence  to suggest there 
were further  significant calls which it failed  to capture. Having listened to the 20 or so phone calls,  I do 
not share Miss Ws interpretation of these re the key issue of what  she was promised. 
Crucially, I do not agree that a Nutmeg call handler  agreed that she could purchase any shares she 
wanted and it would pay the consequent  compensation.  I accept she refers to potentially purchasing 
Ocado shares in one of the later calls but, in my view, this was mentioned in passing when discussing 
a different issue. I also accept that Nutmegs  representative did not pick up on this reference, let alone 
state that he agreed to pay compensation on this basis. I also dont believe this confusion was 
sufficient for Miss W to have  assumed Nutmeg would compensate  her according to an Ocado-based 
loss calculation.
While I accept  Miss W thought  that Nutmegs representative said she could  purchase any shares and 
it would pay compensation on this basis, I think she ought reasonably to have realised  it was 
extremely unlikely any business would make such an open-ended offer. This would  mean a client 
could simply  choose the shares which showed the biggest  possible loss and receiving compensation  
accordingly. I am not saying Miss W did this, merely that I think  she ought to have realised  that 
Nutmeg was never going  to agree to this and sought further  clarification about her apparent 
understanding.
Overall, I am satisfied that Miss W initially  told Nutmeg that she intended to buy Amazon shares and 
that it was right to offer compensation on this basis. I will come on to the dispute  about how it 
calculated this loss further down.
Ref: DRN27938215Having listened  to all the available calls, I believe that Nutmegs responses,  and lack of responses,  
were extremely  poor.  It made  a serious  error when  failing to transfer a substantial portion of her 
holding. Given this, it had a particular responsibility to sort this problem  out promptly, efficiently and 
proactively. In my view it failed all three of these tests  - and repeatedly. Miss W was forced to do all 
the chasing and was repeatedly told that no-one was available to speak to her and that she should 
call back.
When considering how much compensation a customer should  receive for the trouble  and upset  a 
business failures have caused, I need to assess the impact on the particular  customer given their 
specific circumstances. Miss W was clearly  very worried about  this situation and was also facing  a 
variety of extremely stressful personal circumstances. She was also frequently abroad when  seeking 
to sort out this problem  often in locations with expensive and/or limited phone or internet access. 
This, in my view, very significantly increased  the trouble and upset Nutmegs failings had on Miss W, 
particularly its repeated failures  to proactively  respond to her queries. Miss W has also supplied 
copies of her mobile phone  bills during the relevant  period and this shows she incurred very high 
charges when  from Sri Lanka and Singapore.
Given all these  factors, I intend to instruct Nutmeg to pay a further £500 in lieu of the trouble and 
upset it caused. This is in addition to the £300  it originally  offered (which  it must  also pay if this 
payment has yet to be processed). 
Turning to the issue  of Nutmegs  calculation of loss, I dont  agree that it needed to round  up the 
potential number of shares Miss W couldve bought  even if I accepted her view that she wouldve  
paid sufficient  money to buy a full extra share. I dont believe this would have been necessary in order 
to make Nutmegs offer fair and reasonable, the criterion by which I have assessed its offer.
Ive also seen  no persuasive  evidence  to conclude that Nutmegs method of calculation was 
unreasonable or incorrect. I would like it to respond to Miss Ws two concerns about why its 
calculations were  in dollars and how it selected the appropriate  exchange  rate in its response to this 
Provisional Decision. But as this complaint  dates back nearly a year I think  it is sensible and 
appropriate to issue my provisional findings at this stage rather than wait any longer for further 
information.
But if I am not satisfied  with Nutmegs responses to these two issues I may need to either investigate 
further or amend my proposed compensation accordingly.
Given I currently believe Nutmegs  compensation offer was broadly fair  even though  its overall  
service was very poor  I do not think it would  be right to award Miss W compensatory interest on the 
loss of interest shes suffered through not accepting this offer immediately. I therefore only intend to 
instruct it to pay the compensation it originally offered, assuming this has not been paid.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold the complaint  but only to the extent described  above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2793821