K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complained she had been  wrongly  advised  by Logic Investments Ltd to transfer two 
personal pensions  into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
background
Mrs F had two personal pensions, one was worth about £1,400 and another one which was 
worth about  £8,900. She applied to transfer  these to a Lifetime SIPP.
Mrs F signed a form waiving her right to change her mind about the SIPP on 21 July 2016. 
The form had been marked with notes telling her to select the option  to waive  her right to 
cancel the SIPP and where to sign and print her name.
The funds were transferred to Lifetime SIPP on 28 July 2016and on 3 August 2016.
An application form for a SIPP trading account was signed by Mrs F on 10 August 2016.  
Logic rejected her application on 17 August 2016,  as she did not pass  the suitability scoring  
assessment.
An invoice for £300 was sent to Lifetime SIPP on 31 August 2016 on Logic Investments 
headed paper.
An email  from Mayfair  Capital dated  8 September  2016  was sent to Lifetime SIPP  asking for 
confirmation that the transfers could proceed.
Mrs F later submitted  another  application via Mayfair Capital, who at the time of the 
application, were  appointed representatives of Logic. Mayfair  Capital initially  agreed to 
advise Mrs F. However, on 29 September 2016, Logic rejected her application as they still 
felt it was unsuitable. 
Mayfair Capital sent an email on 4 October  2016  to Lifetime SIPP  with a list of clients and 
asked for the transfers to be suspended. Mrs F was one of those  clients.
Another financial adviser wrote to Mrs F on 27 October 2016 explaining that she had 
transferred her pensions  into the Lifetime SIPP. The transaction had been carried out on an 
Execution Only basis. The letter said they had been asked by Logic to point out to Mrs F 
how the type of transaction affected her and her rights. They asked Mrs F to sign a copy  of 
the letter to confirm the transfer had been  made  on an Execution  Only basis.
Mayfair Capital charged Mrs F a fee of £300  for completing the application. This fee was 
subsequently refunded.
Mrs F complained as she felt the advice for her to transfer her pensions to a SIPP was 
unsuitable due to the total amount she had to invest, and she had no previous investment 
experience. 
Logic did not uphold her complaint as they rejected her application and had no further  
involvement.
Ref: DRN29549592Hartley SAS told Mrs Fs representatives that the application for the SIPP  was received from 
Logic, but when the SIPP checklist  was received  it showed the introducer to be Mayfair 
Capital. The Welcome  letter sent to Mrs F also showed the introducer  to be Mayfair Capital.
One of our adjudicators investigated this complaint  and felt it should not be upheld. He 
explained that Mrs F transferred her pension using  Origo Options and no financial adviser 
was involved.  Logic rejected Mrs Fs application due to her lack of investment experience 
and the proposed investment being  under £10,000.  When Mrs F used the services of 
Mayfair Capital, her application  was also rejected by Logic, albeit after Mayfair Capital 
charged her a fee of £300,  which they later refunded.
The adjudicator concluded Logic were  not responsible for Mrs Fs pension  transfer  and 
neither were  Mayfair Capital. Mrs Fs representatives did not agree. They said that as Logic 
initiated the transfer, they were responsible for some of the losses Mrs F has suffered.  
The adjudicator did not agree and reiterated  that Logic rejected Mrs Fs application. The 
complaint has therefore been referred to me for determination.
I asked another  adjudicator to call Mrs F to clarify  what had happened and who she spoke 
with. Mrs F was unable to recall many  details and has not provided any documentation.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision. I said it wasnt clear  to me exactly  what the sequence of 
events were leading  up to Mrs F transferring her pension benefits to the Lifetime SIPP.  
However, the evidence  indicated  it was Mayfair Capital that arranged the transfers with the 
intention for Mrs F to use the investment services provided by Logic.
I reached that conclusion  because  it was clear Mrs F did not decide for herself  to transfer  the 
pensions. The cancellation notice  was signed  by Mrs F after following instructions about how 
it should be completed. There  were also emails from Mayfair Capital to Lifetime  SIPP, 
initially chasing for the transfer to be made and then suspending it. The fee of £300 was also 
paid to Mayfair  Capital. These factors  all pointed to Mayfair Capital having arranged  the 
transfer of Mrs Fs personal pensions  into the SIPP.
Mayfair Capital Limited was an appointed representative of Logic from 28 June  2016  until 
3 April 2017. This meant Logic accepted responsibility for certain  regulated activities  carried 
out by Mayfair Capital between those  dates. Arranging a personal pension  (including a 
SIPP) is a regulated  activity. 
I agreed with the conclusion  reached by Logic  that Mrs F did not have the necessary 
investment experience and the value  of the SIPP was too small for their services.  I thought  
Logic were right to say Mrs F was not a suitable  client for their services.
However, Mrs F incurred fees within the SIPP and the funds have been left on deposit. It 
appeared likely to me that she had suffered a loss. Those losses  were caused by starting  the 
SIPP. The evidence indicated Mayfair Capital  arranged  the SIPP. I was satisfied without any 
involvement from Mayfair Capital Mrs F would not have transferred  her personal pensions.  
The losses  caused  were  as a result  of action taken by Mayfair  Capital. The fact Logic did not 
accept Mrs F as a client did not prevent those losses  from happening.
Ref: DRN29549593Another adviser wrote to Mrs F in October 2016  after the transfers  were  made.  Although this 
indicated the transfer was made with no advice being given, I did not accept this was an 
accurate version  of events. The letter was written some months after the transfers took 
place. In my view, Mrs F was unlikely to apply for the SIPP or the trading account without 
being advised to do so. The evidence indicated this was as a result of action taken by 
Mayfair Capital.
Logic did not agree with me. They said:
Mayfair introduced only general  Investment  and ISA advisory services to Mrs F in 
May 2016. As part of the service they provided  a brochure explaining all the services, 
which included investment advice on SIPPs, if the SIPP was held with a compatible 
SIPP provider. The brochure  explains Mayfair  do not provide advice on pension  
transfers and the client should seek advice from a suitably qualified IFA.
On 15 July 2016 Logic were notified by Lifetime SIPP that Mrs F had applied for a 
SIPP account with them and appointed  Mayfair  as her Investment Manager for her 
Lifetime SIPP account. 
I referred to a form Mrs F signed on 21July 2016 waiving her rights to change her 
mind about the SIPP 'which had been marked  with notes  telling  her to select the 
option to waive her right to cancel the SIPP and where to sign and print her name'. 
They were unaware of this form and asked for a copy. They  said this was a Lifetime 
SIPP form and there  would be no financial benefit to arranging an unsuitable  SIPP. 
They were curious  about the form and why one of the signatures was redacted.  
Neither Logic or Mayfair would have received a copy of this form.
On 10 August 2016 Logic received Mrs F's Logic  SIPP  application forms. This 
provides further  evidence that Logic was not involved in the arrangement of Mrs F's 
pension transfer  as she had already applied for a Lifetime SIPP  before she signed 
Logic's application forms.
Mrs F indicated that she was the owner of a mortgage free property and had cash of 
£25,000. She had a monthly excess of income over expenditure of £500. She stated 
she had 'extensive  knowledge' of general  financial and economic affairs and was 
prepared to invest up to £4,000  of her pension fund in high risk and speculative 
investments. She also acknowledged  that she was aware investment values could go 
down as well as up and had traded various shares  in the past.  Despite these factors, 
Logic still considered her unsuitable  for their services.
On 27 August 2016, the adviser  at Mayfair telephoned Mrs F to explain  that Logic 
had assessed  she was unsuitable for their services he continued to explain to Mrs F 
that he recommended that she contacts an IFA who would advise her on suitable 
alternatives.
Logic made repeated  efforts  to ensure that the automatic £300 admin fee charged  by 
Lifetime SIPP on behalf of Mayfair whenever a client appoints Mayfair  as their 
Investment Adviser was returned to Mrs F; it was eventually.
Logic never invested any funds on behalf of Mrs F. A transfer of funds from the SIPP  
company to Logic's custodian was never made or requested.
Ref: DRN29549594On 4 October 2016, Mayfair sent an email  to Lifetime SIPP  requesting that the 
pension transfer  be suspended for Mrs F. As Mrs F had initiated the pension transfer 
on an execution-only basis. Logic did not believe that she had the knowledge  and 
experience necessary  for such a transaction following their assessment. Had Logic 
been involved in the arrangement of Mrs Fs pension transfer. Logic would have first 
conducted an assessment  to determine if she was suitable for its services  before 
deciding whether to arrange. The fact that Logic  conducted this after the pension  
transfer process had already been  initiated by Mrs F is further  evidence  that Logic 
was not involved  in this arrangement.
On 27 October 2016, Logic asked another regulated IFA to warn Mrs F that she was 
in the process  of transferring her pension to the Lifetime SIPP  for Logic  to manage 
her pension  funds. If she did not wish to proceed with the investment, she should not 
sign the letter and seek advice from an IFA. As Mrs F signed this letter  despite  these 
warnings, the transfer completed.
This action was intended to protect  Mrs Fs best interests as she had been found to 
be unsuitable for Logics services  and had already  transferred or was in the process 
of transferring her pension to Lifetime  SIPP  on an execution-only basis.  The letter  
also highlighted that IFAs are qualified to help her make the right decision and that 
she could contact  any suitably qualified IFA of her choosing.
They were rather disappointed  Mrs F was unable to recall  many details nor provide 
any documentation. That said, if she has been in consultation with either  a legal 
adviser or claims  firm - as we know she has been - would  that not have been their 
advice to her in the circumstances?
They also had some difficulty in understanding how I arrived at my view that Mrs F 
was unlikely to apply for the SIPP or the trading account without having been  
advised to do so. Unless I am mistaken, no evidence of any advice at any point has 
been presented  in support  of this view. Note too, that she already had two personal 
pensions prior to engaging with Mayfair in any manner  whatsoever.  and she had 
traded shares  in the past.  As we know too, she was financially independent and well 
informed at the time of these transactions.
Logic went beyond  what  might  be reasonably  expected,  acting in the best interests of 
Mrs F at all times.  Whilst any financial loss she may have suffered is regretted, this 
has been despite their efforts  and they have not benefitted from this unfortunate 
sequence of events. To suggest  that she should be compensated  because  of the 
unsuitable advice  to transfer her pension in the absence of any evidence of such 
advice appears  inappropriate to them.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think Logic is 
responsible for the transfer  of Mrs Fs pensions. Let me explain why.
Logic acknowledged  Mayfair introduced Mrs F to their General Investment and ISA services 
in May 2016.  At the time Mayfair provided  a brochure which included details of the SIPP 
advisory service. Following this Mrs F applied for the Lifetime SIPP.  The cancellation notice 
had been marked  up to show Mrs F where to complete the form. I am not aware of any other 
party being  involved in this process.
Mayfair also received a payment of £300 for introducing Mrs F to the Lifetime SIPP. This 
seems to me to be the incentive to make the arrangements. 
Ref: DRN29549595I accept that Logic reviewed Mrs Fs circumstances  and explained  she was not a suitable  
client for the SIPP advisory  service. They also appointed another IFA to explain this to her.
Mayfair was an appointed representative of Logic. Logic accepted responsibility for certain 
regulated activities  carried  out by Mayfair.  Arranging  a personal pension (including  a SIPP) 
is a regulated activity.
My conclusion is that it was someone  at Mayfair who indicated where Mrs F should  complete 
and sign the cancellation form. I am not aware  of anyone else being involved in the process. 
It is clear to me that Mrs F did not mark the form to indicate to herself where  she should 
complete the form. Mayfair also received  a payment of £300, which  was subsequently 
refunded. And Mayfair  sent emails  about the arrangement. 
In my view, it is more likely than not that Mayfair arranged the transfer to the SIPP.  I think it 
is likely  that Mayfair advised Mrs F to transfer to the SIPP.
The advice from a firm of IFAs came  too late to stop the transfer. By that time Mrs F had 
already transferred out of the personal pensions and she has remained in cash deposits.  I 
think any loss was caused by the actions of Mayfair. Logic is responsible  for those losses.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mrs F back in the position  she would now be in if Mayfair  Capital had not 
transferred her personal pensions into a SIPP. Logic should  therefore calculate the transfer 
values of Mrs Fs personal pensions and compare these to the transfer value of the SIPP.
If the transfer values  of the personal  pensions are higher than the transfer value of the SIPP,  
there is a loss. Mrs F will therefore be due compensation.  The difference  in the transfer 
values should  be paid to Mrs F as a cash lump sum. 
If it is not possible to obtain  the transfer values for the personal pensions, I think  the 
amounts transferred to the SIPP  should be increased in line with the Bank of Englands  base 
rate. As Mrs F was close to her retirement  age, I think she would have been invested  in safer 
funds.
But, if this amount had been in the pension, Mrs F would have been liable to pay income tax 
depending upon her other  income  and how she withdrew the funds. I presently intend to 
assume that Mrs F would pay income tax at the basic rate when  the funds were withdrawn. 
She would have been entitled to take 25% of the funds as a tax-free  lump  sum. The 
remaining 75% would have been subject  to income tax at 20%. This means the 
compensation should be reduced by 15% being  20% of 75% of the loss. I think this will fairly 
reflect the net of tax loss to Mrs F.
In addition, I think Mrs F has suffered  some  distress and inconvenience because  of the 
unsuitable advice  to transfer her pension. I think Logic should pay Mrs F £100 to 
compensate for that distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN29549596my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Logic Investments Ltd must calculate any loss and pay fair 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2954959