K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy  that in relation to a home  insurance claim following a burglary 
QIC Europe Ltd has voided their policy (treated it as though it never existed) and not paid 
their claim. The claim was dealt with by a broker/administrator though for convenience Ill 
refer to QIC throughout.
background 
Mr and Mrs N bought  the policy through a price  comparison website in July 2018. In 
November 2018  they suffered a burglary  when a substantial amount of their jewellery  was 
stolen. After reviewing the claim QIC discovered that Mr and Mrs N had valuables of over 
£24,000. They also had a further four valuable items each worth in excess  of £2,000 and 
totalling around £22,000. Mrs N had completed the application  and had asked for a total of 
£11,000 of valuables cover, and total cover for contents of £70,000. She had said she had 
no items worth more than £2,000.
QIC said Mrs N had misrepresented the value of her contents, particularly valuables.  It said 
it wouldnt have offered a policy with valuables  cover of more  than £20,000.  It said Mrs N 
had made  a careless misrepresentation  when buying the policy.  It voided the policy back to 
its start date and said as a consequence  the claim wouldnt be paid.
Mrs N objected. She said she hadnt  misrepresented  the value  of her contents. She didnt 
feel the questions  were clear enough as they only asked  her what  items  she wanted insured  
 she only wanted  cover of £11,000 for her valuables. Mr and Mrs N have had to buy 
another policy with a significantly increased premium.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said he thought Mrs N had made a 
misrepresentation and that the questions asked of her were  clear, so QIC had acted 
reasonably.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that Mrs N answered  one question  
carelessly, that is that she says she didnt have any valuables worth  more than £2,000.  In 
relation to that specific question QIC said it would have offered a quotation for a policy 
including the valuables worth over £2,000.  So I said that QIC shouldnt have voided the 
policy. I also said it should compensate Mr and Mrs N for the extra amount they have had to 
pay for their insurance cover since the voidance.
In response to my provisional decision Mrs N has made the following points:
They had to pay the cost of repair to the back door themselves and had to have the initial 
boarding up carried  out by QICs contractor redone.
It was very difficult for them to get a new policy and they had to accept one that didnt give 
them any cover for valuables at a cost of £1,390.60.
The award doesnt take into account the distress  caused to them  by the policy being 
cancelled; their home was ransacked and they felt very vulnerable for some months 
afterwards.
Ref: DRN29000202QIC responded that if Mr and Mrs N accept  the decision  it will need  to arrange for the voided 
premium to be repaid  in order to consider the claim, and evidence  of the increased 
premiums levied by their new insurer will need to be provided. 
Mr and Mrs N have provided  evidence  of their new premium which has been  passed onto 
QIC.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following  were my provisional findings:
As our investigator has advised  the sale of consumer insurance policies is governed by the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). That act says 
that It is the duty of the consumer to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation 
to the insurer.
In assessing whether  reasonable  care has been taken certain  matters  may need to be taken 
into account. The relevant matter Ive considered is:
how clear, and how specific, the insurers questions were.
I should add here that, unless the consumer is required to read and understand any 
additional information referred to on the website, before  being  able to proceed,  I cant take it 
into account. I can only consider if Mrs N gave accurate  responses  to the questions,  and if 
not what the consequences  of that were  for the policy. So when the questions  were followed 
by a link which, if the prospective policyholder decided to hover  over it or click on it, provided  
further information, I cant take account  of it.
Mrs N purchased the policy through a price  comparison website. She was asked:
How much would it cost to replace the entire  contents of your home as new?
Mrs N replied £70,000 and asserts that that was an accurate answer.  QIC hasnt sought  to 
argue or show Mrs N misrepresented the situation in this respect  and in my view it cant 
revisit that part of the claim now.
She was then asked:
Do you want to insure any items individually worth more than £1,000?
Mrs N replied no. Again  if she didnt want to cover any such items then she could fairly 
interpret this question  as asking what she wanted to cover, rather than if she actually had 
such items.
Mrs N was then directed to the broker/administrator website  where  she was asked:
How much contents cover do you require? (This is everything in your home, including  
valuables).
Ref: DRN29000203Again Mrs N answered £70,000 which she asserts was accurate and QIC hasnt disputed.
The next question  was:
Is a total of £10,000 enough to cover all valuables worth less than £2,000  each inside your 
home?
Mrs N answered  no
She was then asked:
How much cover  do you need for valuables inside your home?
Mrs N answered  £11,000. She wasnt asked if this was to cover all valuables  in the home,  
so she could fairly answer by giving a value  for only what she wanted to cover   £11,000. I 
havent taken  account of the information link which she could have followed but wasnt  
required to.
Finally she was asked:
Do you have any valuables or personal items worth over £2,000  each (excluding  bicycles)?
Mrs N answered  no. This was an inaccurate  answer  she clearly did, whether or not she 
wanted to insure  them.  
My view is that the only misrepresentation Mrs N made was that last answer.  I think the 
other questions about valuable  invited  her to say what she wanted to insure rather than 
asking her to declare  the value of all the contents or valuables.
CIDRA provides  a remedy to the insurer for misrepresentation. QIC has said that it regards 
the misrepresentation as careless, and I think thats fair. Mrs N has said that in the context  of 
the other questions she thought that she was being asked what she wanted to insure. So 
she didnt take care to answer the question  she was actually asked. In the case of a careless  
misrepresentation:
If the insurer would have  entered  into the consumer insurance  contract, but on different 
terms (excluding terms relating to the premium), the contract is to be treated as if it had been 
entered into on those  different terms if the insurer so requires.
In addition, if the insurer would have entered into the consumer  insurance  contract  (whether 
the terms relating  to matters other than the premium  would have been the same or different), 
but would  have charged a higher premium, the insurer may reduce proportionately the 
amount to be paid on a claim.
Here QIC says that had the four items  worth  more than £2,000 been added  in isolation then 
it would  have offered  a quotation. However,  each item would have required a UK valuation  
and an inspection of clasps,  stones and settings would have been required in order  for those  
items to be covered.  The information which Mrs N carelessly failed to share with it wouldnt 
have caused it to not offer cover.
So I dont  think QIC was entitled under the terms of CIDRA to void the policy. It should 
reinstate the policy and reconsider  the claim. If it can show that it would have charged 
additional premiums  to cover the four items  worth  more than £2,000, that would mean it 
Ref: DRN29000204would have to cover those  additional items.  In the alternative Mrs N has said she only 
wanted to cover valuables of up to £11,000  and didnt want  to cover the items worth  more 
than £2,000 so QIC could  just pay up to £11,000  (not reduced proportionately) for the 
valuables that were stolen that werent worth  more than £2,000.
Mr and Mrs N had to buy a policy for a significantly higher  premium,  presumably due to 
having had a policy voided  (seeing as her jewellery has been  stolen and not yet replaced).  
QIC should refund the difference to her, for the policy year 2018-2019 for the premiums  she 
had to pay and what it would have charged. If it deems the £2,000+ items as being covered 
it can take that assessed premium into account.  If not, it will be the premium it would have 
charged excluding  those items. Im not going  to make it do anything for the policy years after 
this I have no way to know, without the intervening act of the avoidance,  what  Mr and Mrs N 
and QIC would have  done at renewal.
In response to Mr and Mrs Ns points:
Any repairs  needed  as a result of the burglary will fall to be considered as a part of the claim, 
which QIC has yet to assess. I wont award  any extra compensation, for the reasons set out 
below, in respect of Mr and Mrs N having  to pay for this initially  themselves.
The policy premium was £114.73. Mr and Mrs Ns new policy, without valuables cover was 
£1,390.60. As Ive said QIC can either  refund the difference between the cost of those  
policies or assess what  it would have charged had it agreed to include the valuables  over 
£2,000. In the latter event,  it will have to include those items in the claim.  In respect of the 
voided policy Mr and Mrs N will have to repay the premium for this (assuming it was 
refunded) but I would  have thought that QIC can take this into account  in the refund it 
makes.
As regards  compensation, I can understand that the burglary, and their home being 
ransacked would have been  very distressing for Mr and Mrs N. QIC isnt liable for the 
distress caused by the claim. I do understand that it was distressing  to have their policy 
voided but as Ive set out above Mrs N was careless in failing to answer accurately the 
question about  valuables. This led QIC into carrying out an investigation and voiding the 
policy. While  Ive found QIC shouldnt  have voided the policy,  I think that the remedies Ive 
proposed are sufficient  in the circumstances of his case. 
My provisional findings, as set out above are now final and form part of this final decision.
Ref: DRN29000205my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require QIC Europe  to:
Reinstate Mr and Mrs Ns policy and remove any reference to the policy being voided 
from its own and any external databases.
Reconsider Mr and Mrs Ns claim as Ive set out above.
For the policy year 2018-19 pay to Mr and Mrs N the difference between  the cost of their 
new insurance and the premium  it would have charged if the policy had continued 
(bearing in mind  what Ive said about  the items  worth more than £2,000).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2900020