K821x#15complaint
Mr Q is unhappy that the written value of a car he is financing through  an agreement with 
Lombard North Central PLC (Lombard) is £16,495 rather  than the £24,695 he paid for it. 
He wants this changed.
background
Mr Q took receipt of a used car in May 2018.  He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with a company  Ill call T but he withdrew from that deal a few days later and 
instead he arranged  finance through a conditional sale agreement with Lombard.  
The original  finance  agreement with T listed the cash price of the car as £24,695; a deposit 
of £7,350 and a part exchange of £850. This left a total amount of credit  of £16,495. But 
when Lombard  bought  the car off T they paid £16,495 and they therefore didnt list the 
original sales price  or the deposit or part exchange  value on the agreement.
Mr Q complained to them.  He said theyd not accounted for the deposit  and part exchange 
value and had therefore recorded the incorrect sales price.
But Lombard  disagreed they said they had listed what  they paid for the car and that they 
neednt report the original sales value. They said that was a subjective  figure  and Mr Q had 
chosen to transfer  the finance  to them.
So Mr Q referred  his complaint to this service and our investigator provided an opinion. He 
noted that the true price of the asset  that was being financed was £24,695.  He explained 
that the Consumer Credit  (Agreements) Regulations  2010 required the cash  price; any 
advance payments and the amount of credit provided, to be recorded on any regulated 
consumer credit agreements. He noted  that this was a regulated consumer credit agreement  
and he thought it was therefore  fair that Lombard record  the correct details. He also 
explained that by failing  to record the correct sale value Lombard were  disadvantaging Mr Q 
if he ever needed to voluntarily terminate  his agreement. 
So he thought Lombard should replace  the finance  agreement with another  that showed  the 
sales price as £24,695 and listed Mr Qs deposit.  He explained  that whilst this would not 
change the sums payable  it would be necessary to amend other  details in the contract such 
as the sum payable  on voluntary termination.
Lombard didnt  accept the investigators view and they therefore asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman. Whilst Mr Q was happy with the investigators opinion he suggested he 
should receive compensation for the trouble it had caused him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Lombard so please  let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN26570152Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Q acquired  his car under a conditional  sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
This finance agreement  is for the conditional  sale of a car. The agreement is that the car will 
be sold to Mr Q on the condition that he completes the payments in the schedule. The cars 
value is £24,695  and its this amount that is being financed. When  Lombard bought the car 
from T they received an asset worth  close to that amount, albeit one that had depreciated a 
little.
The Consumer Credit  (Agreements) Regulations  2010 explain the features that must be 
referred to in a regulated consumer credit  agreement such  as this one. They include, in 
schedule 1, the amount of credit  to be provided under the agreement, namely  the difference  
between the total cash price   and the total of any advance payments
So I think its fair to say that Lombard had a duty to list the advance payments  that had been 
made by Mr Q towards the asset that they now owned but they were prepared to 
conditionally sell to him. So they should list the sales price  as £24,695 and then list the 
advance payments that have been  made and the resultant credit thats being financed.
And even  if Im wrong  in law I think it would be fair and reasonable to list the full sales price 
of £24,695. I say that because:
thats the value of the asset that was transferred to them  and to not record  this would 
be to lose track  of the advance payments Mr Q had made towards the asset 
Lombard now owned that was worth considerably more than the total cash price  
theyd listed on the agreement.
the termination and repossession rights are dependant on the total amount being 
financed and will be wrong  if the full amount that was being financed is not recorded 
correctly
Mr Q has suggested that as a result  of this issue he has made a significant loss on his 
mortgage but Ive not been  provided  with evidence of this and Im not persuaded that overall 
this is a complaint  where compensation is due. I am however, persuaded that Lombard  
should report the correct sales price.
Ref: DRN26570153my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Lombard  North Central PLC 
to produce a replacement conditional sale agreement showing Mr Qs advance payments 
and the cash price of the car, with the relevant changes to the total amount payable  
elsewhere i.e. repossession and termination.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2657015