K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that their mortgage  lender, Landmark Mortgages Limited:
-has charged an excessively high amount of interest on their mortgage loan;
-wont make a new interest rate product available to them,  
-wont help them change their mortgage to a more affordable one and;
-didnt ask their consent before the mortgage was transferred to it. 
Although this is a joint complaint, Mr K has managed the complaint throughout.
background
In 2006 Mr and Mrs K took out a Together mortgage  with Northern Rock having taken advice 
from a mortgage  broker.  They  borrowed around £109,000 on a capital repayment basis over 
a term of 35 years. Alongside the mortgage  they took out a Together loan for £30,000 which 
was also to be repaid  over 35 years.
The mortgage was taken out on a five-year fixed rate of 5.99% until 1 June  2011.  Since  that 
rate expired,  the mortgage has been  on a variable  rate which  is guaranteed  to be below 
Northern Rocks Standard  Variable Rate (SVR). 
In 2008 Northern Rock collapsed and was nationalised. In 2010 Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage 
was transferred to NRAM and was later sold to Landmark in 2016.
In 2017 Mr and Mrs K were experiencing financial difficulty. Landmark agreed  to Mr and Mrs 
K paying £1 per month on their unsecured loan for 12 months so they could prioritise  
clearing the arrears on the mortgage  account.  At that time Landmark also agreed to apply no 
interest to the loan for 12 months.
On 12 November 2018 Mr K complained to Landmark. He was unhappy that his mortgage 
had been moved  to a firm that wouldnt offer new interest rate products, and that he felt he 
wasnt getting the help he needed  to move his mortgage elsewhere. Mr K also thought  
Landmark wasnt doing enough to help him in his financial difficulties.
In December 2018 Landmark gave  its final response.  It didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ks 
complaint, saying that it was charging  interest as set out in the mortgage agreement and that 
it couldnt offer new products to any of its customers as it was a closed book lender.
Mr K was dissatisfied with Landmarks response and referred his complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint but didnt think Landmark had acted unfairly. Mr 
and Mrs K disagreed  and asked that an ombudsman  look again  at their complaint and reach 
a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the events covered by this complaint go back  to June 2011 when Mr and Mrs Ks 
five-year fixed rate expired. Landmark has given its consent for us to look at matters  than 
extend more than the six years before Mr and Mrs Ks complaint was made.
Ref: DRN21233292Mr Ks complained that his mortgage was transferred to Landmark without his agreement. 
Hes unhappy that his mortgage  has ended  up with a lender  that he didnt choose and 
doesnt want. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage to see whether a transfer 
of the mortgage  is something that was permitted in the initial  mortgage documentation  that 
Mr and Mrs K agreed to in 2006.  Im satisfied  that transferring the mortgage to a new lender 
was something that the lender was able to do under the mortgages terms and conditions.  I 
say this because  in clause 19 of Northern  Rocks  mortgage offer general conditions  (edition 
3- 2/2005),  it says:
Transfer  of the Offer
19.1 We may transfer or charge or otherwise  dispose of the Offer or any of our rights  under 
the Offer  (including  the right to set the Interest Rate) to any person at any time in law or in 
equity without your consent. 
From my wider knowledge of the mortgage market, Im aware that transfers  of mortgage 
loans are increasingly commonplace. Such transfers  usually happen on a large scale,  and 
whole portfolios of mortgages are transferred between firms as part of one commercial  
transaction. 
In Mr and Mrs Ks case, the transfer of their mortgage was firstly part of the governments 
bail out of Northern Rock and subsequent restructuring to NRAM, before it was then sold 
years later to Landmark. These changes to the loan owner havent changed the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Ks individual mortgage contract  in any way. I also note that all 
times Mr and Mrs Ks lender has remained regulated  by the Financial Conduct Authority and 
their access  to consumer protections hasnt been  affected, such as their ability to bring a 
complaint to our service. 
I can see why Mr K is disappointed that he wasnt  consulted about what  would happen to his 
mortgage and that hed have liked to choose his lender. But in all the circumstances I think it 
was reasonable  that the lender transferred the mortgage and it wasnt  required to ask for the 
account holders  consent  to do so.  
is it fair that Landmark  isnt offering any new interest  rate products to Mr and Mrs K? 
Mr K says he feels his mortgage is trapped with Landmark and that Landmark  is 
profiteering by applying  an unfairly  high interest rate to their mortgage.  Mr K says hes 
asked Landmark  to put their mortgage on a more competitive interest rate multiple times and 
its refused. Hed like lower interest rates to be made  available to him, like other banks make 
available to their customers. 
Typically, if Mr K was unhappy  with the rate of his SVR hed be able to apply for a new 
interest rate product  with his lender or remortgage  elsewhere. Im aware  there isnt an early 
repayment charge  (ERC)  anymore that would  prevent him moving this mortgage. The last 
fixed rate product (with  an ERC) that applied to this mortgage expired in 2011.  However,  
Mr and Mrs K have  been unable to move their mortgage because  of other reasons. 
Ref: DRN21233293Mr and Mrs K have  experienced financial difficulty  in recent years.  Mr Ks said hes fairly 
recently entered into a debt management  plan to help him manage a number of unsecured  
debts. While there may not be contractual barriers that have stopped  Mr and Mrs K 
remortgaging elsewhere, I can see that there  were  practical barriers  that would prevented Mr 
and Mrs K from being able to move this mortgage to another lender and get access to lower 
interest rates. 
Because Mr and Mrs K cant  go elsewhere, theyve complained that Landmark  isnt making 
new interest rate products  available to them. Landmarks told Mr and Mrs K that its not an 
active lender and it isnt offering any new interest  rates or further lending  to any of its 
customers. 
Landmark (and the predecessor lender NRAM) has also explained to us, in considerably 
more detail than it gave to Mr K, the reasons for this. 
There are competition laws which  prevent  a government-owned lender being in direct  
competition with other banks. For this reason, when Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage was managed 
by the state-owned NRAM,  it says it couldnt  offer new rates. And, to that extent, it wasnt  
treating Mr and Mrs K differently to any of its other  customers. 
While that may have been true for NRAM, that isnt the reason that Landmark isnt making 
new interest rate products  available to Mr and Mrs K. Landmarks said its not an active 
lender, and it isnt trying  to attract new customers through offering low rates. It says its taken 
a commercial decision in the interests  of the financial management of its business to 
maintain all its customers on the SVR once their previous interest  rate products expire. To 
that extent, its not treating Mr and Mrs K any differently to any of its other  customers. 
I can see why Mr K is frustrated by Landmarks commercial decision and why hes 
challenging this. Ive looked carefully  at Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage  agreement.  Theres  
nothing in the mortgage agreement that says they are entitled  to a new rate  and thats  also 
true of most  other lenders  mortgage agreements too. Theres  also nothing  in the regulators 
rules that requires Landmark to offer new interest  rates. 
Thats not the end of the matter though  my role is to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  I do that by taking into account the law, regulators rules  and 
guidance, and good industry  practice   but ultimately Im not constrained  by them  if I think  
fairness requires me to do something else. Ive thought  carefully about whether its fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances that Landmark wont  offer Mr and Mrs K a new interest 
rate thats lower  than its SVR.
Through no fault of his own, Mr and Mrs K have ended up with a closed book  lender  that 
doesnt offer new rates.  Landmark is their lender, and legitimately so. Its decided not to offer 
new interest rates to any customers, including Mr and Mrs K. Under current  law and 
regulations, thats  a decision Landmark is entitled  to take. 
While I appreciate Mr Ks frustration that Landmark  has decided not to offer new interest  rate 
products to its customers, I dont uphold this part of his complaint.
is the mortgage interest being charged to Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage unfairly high? 
Mr and Mrs K took out the borrowing in 2006 on a five year fixed  rate of 5.99% until 1 June 
2011. Since June  2011 their mortgage  has been  on a variable rate which  I will call the 
Ref: DRN21233294Guaranteed Rate (GR). Northern Rock described  the GR in the mortgage  offer as being a 
variable rate which is guaranteed to be below Northern Rocks Standard Variable Rate  for 
the remaining  term of the mortgage. In 2011 Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage moved to the GR 
which was 4.78% at the time.  
From the information provided to me it seems that the GR has tracked first NRAMs SVR 
and then Landmarks SVR at a discount of 0.01%. Thats meant that Mr and Mrs Ks 
mortgage has been on an interest rate of between 4.36% and 5.03% over the period 
complained about.  The GR is currently 4.36%. 
Ive thought about the level of interest  thats  been  applied to Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage. As 
Ive said, interest has been  applied to this mortgage of around 4.5% to 5.0% since the fixed  
rate expired  in 2011. Overall, I dont think this interest rate is out of line, or unreasonably  
higher, than other lenders SVRs over the same period  of time.  
Financial difficulties
Mr K has complained that Landmark hasnt taken  his financial circumstances seriously. He 
says the only things Landmark have  done to help him is to refer him to a debt charity or get 
an IVA.  
Ive looked at the contact history between Landmark  and Mr K in 2017. In September  2017 
Mr K called Landmark. At that point Mr K was experiencing financial difficulty  and he asked 
Landmark to help him. Landmark agreed some concessions to help Mr and Mrs K. It 
discussed Mr and Mrs K prioritising  the repayment  of their mortgage over their unsecured  
loan. To help with this, it agreed to apply  no interest  to the Together  loan for 12 months, and 
said it would  accept £1 per month  towards  this borrowing so Mr and Mrs K could get their 
mortgage back on track. 
It seems  that this forbearance was helpful to Mr and Mrs K at least to the extent that during 
the arrangement  they managed to clear the arrears on the mortgage. When the 12 month  
arrangement ended Landmark  wanted  to speak with Mr and Mrs K again  to see how their 
situation had changed. Landmark wanted  to discuss what  would be happening  next with 
repaying the Together loan as arrears had built up of around £1,200. 
Im satisfied that Landmark  took reasonable steps to help Mr and Mrs K in their financial 
difficulty. It set up a payment arrangement and offered to freeze the interest rate on the 
Together loan for a year to help Mr and Mrs K. I also think  it was reasonable that at the end 
of the arrangement Landmark wanted to speak again to Mr K to find out how their situation  
had changed and whether  they were  able to start repaying the Together loan.  
Mr K was unhappy that Landmark had wanted to obtain information about his income  and 
outgoings over the phone. Understandably  it was inconvenient for Mr K to discuss  his 
finances while he was at work and he asked to provide the information by post. While 
Landmark has said it would prefer to capture this information by phone  so a discussion can 
be held, Im pleased  to see that they sent a form to Mr K as he had asked for this. That 
adaptation to Landmarks usual process seemed a fair thing to do in the circumstances so 
Mr K could check figures and complete the information in his own time, in privacy, and with 
greater accuracy. 
I can also appreciate why Landmark  was frustrated that when it completed an assessment of 
Mr and Mrs Ks financial  position it considered that other unsecured  debts were being  repaid 
Ref: DRN21233295before its Together  loan.  Since that time,  Mr K has now received help from a debt charity, 
and hes made a proposal to Landmark  to make reduced payments to the Together  Loan 
which Landmark accepted. This is part of a wider  arrangement Mr K has made with a 
number of unsecured  creditors.  Im pleased to see that Mr K has received help prioritising 
his debt payments  and that Landmark has extended  its interest rate forgiveness as part of 
an agreed payment  arrangement with Mr K.
I see why Mr K was frustrated with the position  he found himself in previously and why hed 
looked to Landmark to do more. However, I dont  think Landmark  fell short  in the support it 
gave to Mr K in his financial difficulties.  I think Mr Ks financial situation is more  far reaching 
than the money  that is owed to Landmark,  and that it wouldnt be reasonable in this instance  
to expect Landmark to have  sorted out Mr Ks financial position through further forbearance  
on the Together loan in isolation.
Moving to another lender
Mr Ks explained that he did get advice from a broker in 2018  to see if he could remortgage 
elsewhere. Mr K says he was told he couldnt  move to another lender because Landmark 
was charging him a high interest rate, because  their mortgage was seen as high risk and 
because theyd taken  out a mortgage  with a very high loan to value with Northern Rock.
I appreciate that there are practical barriers that now prevent Mr K from being able to move 
his mortgage elsewhere. In the past Mr and Mrs K have been in negative equity and this has 
prevented them moving  to another lender.  Mr K now thinks that this position may have 
changed for the better and he thinks they have more equity in their property than the debt 
they owe to Landmark. 
It shouldnt be the case that Landmarks interest  rate or Mr and Mrs Ks historic loan to value 
position when  they first took the Northern Rock mortgage out have any bearing on their 
ability to get a mortgage with another high street lender now.
However, Im also aware that Mr Ks had fairly  recent issues  with other unsecured  borrowing. 
Mr and Mrs Ks wider  financial  situation, including their borrowing with other lenders, will also 
affect their ability to move their mortgage to another lender. As will their current  loan to 
value.
Mr K has said that his unsecured Together Loan has prevented  him from being  able to get a 
mortgage elsewhere.  Hes unhappy  that Landmark  has reported arrears  on this loan and the 
fact that hes making partial repayments  onto their credit file. I dont think Landmark has 
acted unfairly here by accurately recording  the position on the Together loan. That is what it 
is required to do. 
Mr K recalls  the advice  of the broker he met with at the time, and that he was told he 
wouldnt be able to move  his mortgage to another lender while  he had a Together loan. 
As our investigator has already mentioned, there have  been changes to the mortgage  
market in recent years to help people on SVRs with inactive  lenders or closed books move 
their mortgage and get access  to lower rates of interest. It may be that Mr and Mrs K want  to 
explore their options  again now. If this would  be helpful, our investigator can share  further 
information about how Mr and Mrs K can do this.
Ref: DRN21233296my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2021.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2123329