K821x#15complaint
Mr B and Mrs M complain about Mattioli Woods Plcs charges for administering  their 
pension. The charges disputed in this complaint  were incurred between 1 June 2016 and 
31 May 2017. Specifically, Mr B and Mrs M are disputing all time-costed fees on the invoices 
dated 31 January  2017 and 23 June 2017.  Charges  invoiced  after this period are the subject 
of a separate complaint.  
I should also point  out that  unless stated - all the invoiced amounts quoted in this decision  
are excluding Value Added  Tax (VAT).
background
I issued a provisional decision on 7 February 2019.  A copy is attached and forms part of this 
final decision  so I dont  intend to repeat it in full here. In summary, I said I was minded to 
uphold this complaint in part. I provisionally concluded that Mattioli Woods  was entitled to 
charge time-costed fees for work that fell outside  the day to day administration  of the SIPP. I 
then considered the time-costed fees that had been  invoiced  and provisionally concluded the 
fair outcome was for Mattioli Woods to reduce its time-costed fees to £5,930.10 including  
VAT. This meant Mattioli Woods should refund £97.86 of time-costed fees. I also 
recommended Mattioli Woods pay Mr B and Mrs M £250 each for the inconvenience caused  
as a result  of Mattioli  Woods  failing  to be sufficiently clear about  the time-costed fees it 
applied.
Mattioli Woods  did not respond  to my provisional decision. Mr B and Mrs M did, but did not 
agree with it. They said, in summary, that whilst the client and wealth management 
agreements outline  that Mattioli Woods  would  accept instructions on an ad hoc basis and 
apply charges, it remains that they were not informed the extra  work undertaken would fall 
outside the day to day administration on a time-costed  basis. Mr B and Mrs M say the emails  
Mattioli Woods  relied on to say it alerted them to some time-costed fees still didnt make it 
clear fees would be incurred. Mr B and Mrs M reiterated that they would not have asked 
Mattioli Woods  to do any of the work that incurred time-costed fees if they had been  
informed of these  in advance. 
Mr B and Mrs M also noted the annual management scheme charge was not referenced in 
their initial correspondence with Mattioli Woods or in its client agreement  and deed of 
appointment. They feel the pre-retirement pension fund illustration cannot be taken as 
definitive or forming part of the client agreement.  On that basis, they dont feel the charge 
should be applied  to their SIPP.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having now reviewed the case afresh, I dont intend  to depart from the conclusion reached in 
my provisional decision. However, Mr B and Mrs M provided the further submissions I 
outlined above,  so Ill explain why I dont think these  change the outcome of their complaint.
Mr B and Mrs M reiterated  they were not informed the extra  work  undertaken would  fall 
outside the day to day administration of their SIPP and incur fees on a time-costed basis.  
They also said they wouldnt  have instructed any of the work that I thought  it was fair for 
Ref: DRN22705402Mattioli Woods  to charge  for. Mrs M specifically commented on the time-costed fees relating 
to work undertaken to assess the viability of her accessing tax-free  cash  from the SIPP.  
Mrs B reiterated she was under the impression  that this work would be included  in the 
£1,500 annual fee as per her email  of 21 April 2016.  But I remain of the view that the later 
emails sent by Mattioli  Woods  in 2017, which I referred to in my provisional decision, made it 
sufficiently clear this would involve work, and costs, that fell outside of the £1,500 capped 
fee for the day to day administration of the SIPP. Otherwise, my view on these matters 
remains unchanged for the reasons  explained  in my provisional decision, so Ive not 
addressed these again.
Turning to Mr B and Mrs Ms comments about the annual management scheme charge 
being included  only in the pre-retirement  pension fund illustration, I remain of the view that 
the initial contact  they had with Mattioli Woods set out the fees for transfer  advice and the 
management of the SIPP. The illustration I referred  to  which I remain satisfied made these 
fixed charges clear - was issued after the initial emails. So if Mr B and Mrs M were not 
expecting these charges,  I would have expected  them  to raise this at that time.  The 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision remains unchanged. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint in part 
and require Mattioli  Woods  PLC to do what I set out in the attached  copy  of my provisional 
decision of 7 February 2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22705403provisional decision  7 February 2019
complaint
Mr B and Mrs M complain  about Mattioli Woods Plcs charges for administering  their pension.  The 
charges disputed in this complaint were  incurred  between 1 June 2016 and 31 May 2017.  Specifically, 
Mr B and Mrs M are disputing all time-costed fees on the invoices dated  31 January 2017 and 23 
June 2017. Charges invoiced after this period  are the subject of a separate  complaint.  
I should  also point out that  unless stated - all the invoiced amounts quoted in this decision are 
excluding Value  Added Tax (VAT).
background
In February 2016, Mr B and Mrs Ms Self Invested Personal Pensions (SIPPs) with another  provider  
were wound  up. Mrs M agreed  to consolidate her SIPP, along with two more that she had with other 
providers, into a Mattioli  Woods  family  SIPP held jointly with Mr B.
In April 2016,  Mr B sent Mattioli Woods an email  explaining  his understanding of the transfer and 
administration fees, which were:
£1,250 for reviewing  and advising on the transfer of Mrs Ms two existing SIPPS
£1,500 annual charge  for the SIPP
Mrs M also emailed  Mattioli Woods on 21 April 2016  to clarify her understanding  of the charges. They  
say Mattioli Woods replied  and didnt  dispute  Mrs Ms understanding that the fees she quoted covered 
tax, withdrawal and wealth management advice. 
In May 2016,  Mr B and Mrs Ms joint SIPP was set up  and various  work was undertaken by 
Mattioli Woods for them  both over the subsequent months.  
In February 2017, Mattioli Woods sent Mrs M an invoice, No. xxx944.  This included £1,250 for 
transfer advice, as expected, and time-costed fees of £1000 for work  carried out between  June 2016 
and November  2016.  Including VAT the total invoice came to £2,700.  Mr B and Mrs M paid this 
invoice without  querying  it.
Mattioli Woods carried out various other pieces  of work  for Mr B and Mrs M. Mr B went  through a 
divorce, which was finalised  in January 2017. From December 2016,  Mattioli Woods started charging 
Mr B and Mrs M for work it undertook to understand how Mr Bs divorce  impacted the SIPP. And the 
work also included advising  Mrs M on accessing her tax-free  cash.
Later in June 2017, Mattioli  Woods  sent Mr B and Mrs M another invoice,  No. xxx523. This was for  
work carried out from 1 December 2016 to 31 May 2017 and totalled for £2,773.30 (£3,327.96  
including VAT). This invoice  included time-costed  fees of £2,469.30 and a proportion of the SIPPs 
annual scheme charge,  £304.00. 
In total, Mr B and Mrs M were invoiced  £5,023.30 between 1 June 2016  and 31 May 2017.  This 
covered a proportion of the SIPP annual scheme charge,  time-costed fees and the transfer advice fee 
for Mrs M. 
Mr B and Mrs M had only expected to be charged around £1,250 for the transfer advice plus £1,500 
for the management of their SIPP in the first year, a total of £3,300 including VAT.  They  thought  any 
time-costed charges would be made  clear  in advance  and noted Mrs M hadnt signed  a client  
agreement and so should not be charged in line with the agreement. They said if theyd been made 
aware of the additional costs, they wouldnt have  asked Mattioli Woods  to do the work. They also 
noted it wasnt  clear  what some of the time Mattioli  Woods charged for was spent on. A complaint was 
Ref: DRN22705404made to Mattioli Woods in August 2017 as the work invoiced  had not been discussed, pre-costed or 
agreed beforehand. In response, Mattioli Woods said:
The charges applied were in line with the agreement Mr B signed for both him and Mrs M. 
In April 2016, Mattioli  Woods  confirmed  the transfer advice fee would be £1,250 and annual 
administration charges  with Mattioli Woods were capped at £1,500.  They  agreed the offer to 
CAP fees could have been clearer  but Mr B had also signed  SIPP Client and Wealth 
Management agreements outlining that Mattioli Woods would  accept instructions  on an ad 
hoc basis  and charges would  be applied. The agreement set out their hourly charges.
Mattioli Woods had done a considerable amount of work for Mr B and Mrs M. They  arranged  
the transfers of their pensions and setting up of new accounts. Mattioli Woods also gave 
advice and applied for protection  of Mrs Ms lifetime allowance and gave advice  about 
investment options.  And they also needed  legal advice to understand some changes to Mr Bs 
personal circumstances. They  feel this work  should be paid for.
On 22 September 2017 Mattioli Woods offered to reduce their outstanding invoice  (xxx523) of 
£3,327.96 to £3,250 including VAT as a gesture  of goodwill. Mr B and Mrs M paid the full invoice, 
meaning they paid Mattioli Woods £6,027.97 including  VAT for work done between  1 June 2016 and 
31 May 2017. Mr B and Mrs M remained unhappy with Mattioli  Woods, so referred their complaint to 
our service. 
One of our investigators looked into things. He thought Mattioli Woods hadnt been clear about their 
time-costed charges in advance and, if they had been, Mr B and Mrs M wouldnt have incurred those 
charges. He also thought Mattioli Woods should pay Mr B and Mrs M £250 each to recognise  the 
trouble and upset they caused. Mattioli Woods disagreed,  so this case  was referred  to me. I initially 
recommended Mattioli  Woods should also refund the time-costed fees. 
Mattioli Woods disagreed,  saying they did a considerable amount of work which fell outside of the fee 
agreement, such as the legal advice  they obtained. They agreed they should have provided some 
form of guidance in terms of cost. But Mr B and Mrs M allowed work to continue after their January 
2017 invoice, and Mr B had signed  a client agreement that set out the range  of time-costed fees that 
may be chargeable. They said Mr B and Mrs M had a joint scheme held in trust, so there was no need 
for Mrs M to sign a separate client agreement. They also referred to emails which they say show Mr B 
and Mrs M agreed to some additional charges. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I would  like to apologise  for the time it has taken to do so  my 
review has taken longer than I would have liked due to the volume  and format of correspondence and 
the detail of the charges  complained about.  I appreciate  the patience of both parties whilst Ive 
reviewed the complaint afresh.
The crux of the issue here is that Mr B and Mrs M were under the impression they had an annual 
fixed fee of £1,500  for the management of their SIPP.  As such, they dont think they should  pay for 
any additional  time-costed  fees. Ive firstly considered the agreement  they had with Mattioli Woods.
In an email sent on 6 April 2016, Mattioli Woods representative said my fee for the transfer advice  
will be a one off £1,250 plus VAT, with the annual administration costs being  capped at £1,500 plus 
VAT. Mr B replied  saying  these charges seem high to me and I would like to be very clear  about  the 
arrangement. The representative said The advice  fee of £1,250  is the cost for reviewing both plans 
and transferring into the SIPP with the annual fee for the whole SIPP  being  £1,500 plus VAT. 
It looks like Mr B also had a further conversation with Mattioli Woods  on 15 April 2016, but I dont 
have a recording  of the conversation so cant be sure what was said.  But at this point, Mr B and 
Mrs M understood the management of their SIPP  would  cost £1,500 for the first year, in addition to 
the £1,250 transfer fee.
Ref: DRN22705405Mattioli Woods argue  that this didnt reflect their agreement. The client agreement, signed by Mrs M 
on 4 April 2016 sets out that not all work  you request us to carry  out for you would necessarily fall 
under the initial or ongoing service.
The SIPP illustration dated 9 May 2016 sets out the annual time costed  fees (average ) is £1,500 
and these fees cover all client  specific work  carried out on schemes  and are therefore  based on 
client activity . The description of what  is covered ends with the statement For illustrative purposes, a 
client average of annual time costed fees has been used and includes VAT. I think  this statement 
sets out clearly enough that Mattioli  Woods  could charge for work done on the SIPP on a time-costed  
basis.
Mattioli Woods wrote  to Mrs M on 7 July 2016 and included a report about the SIPP. It said:
we discussed what the typical total fees might be in year one and confirm for your own 
scheme we are anticipating  a figure of circa  £2,750  made up of transfer advice for [Mrs Bs 
transferred] plan of £1,250  and annual charges of £1,500
Ongoing fees are likely to be circa  £1,500 based on the likely requirements to administer and 
run the scheme.
All fees are subject to an annual review and are quoted  net of VAT. 
This says the fees were not capped at £1,500  this was an estimation  of likely costs.  But on 24 
March 2017, a representative of Mattioli Woods emailed  Mrs B with conflicting  information. He 
responded to an enquiry from Mrs B about withdrawing  tax-free cash  from her Mattioli  Woods  SIPP. 
He said this would incur further charges outside of your fixed fee, which was agreed at the time of 
transferring the scheme. At the time we agreed that the day to day administration  of the scheme  
would be covered  by the fixed fee, however any special  consultancy  and administration  would incur 
further charges .
Whilst the SIPP illustration says Mr B and Mrs M could be charged on a time-costed basis, Im 
satisfied that Mattioli Woods indicated to Mr B and Mrs M that the cost in the first year of the day to 
day administration of their SIPP would be £1,500  plus VAT. I therefore think Mattioli Woods  should  
cap fees for the day to day administration  of the SIPP at £1,500 plus VAT for the first year. However, I 
dont think this agreement means that Mattioli Woods should be unable  to charge for work  that falls 
outside of the day to day administration on a time-costed basis.
As Ive explained above, the client agreements set out that there may be other occasions where 
Mattioli Woods would  charge fees on a time-costed basis. These agreements  set out that 
Mattioli Woods would  look to provide  an estimate of the total cost prior to commencing work.  
Mattioli Woods accept  they could  have  been clearer work  might need to be done outside of the 
£1,500 cap. But it also says work done on Mrs Ms request to withdraw tax free cash, work done to 
understand Mr Bs divorce and ongoing work to help move over Mr Bs trading accounts should be 
paid for. 
Ive considered these arguments and Mattioli Woods  offer to reduce the total invoice  for time-costed 
fees incurred 1 December 2016 until 31 May 2017 to £3,250 including  VAT. To be clear, Mattioli  
Woods has offered only to reduce the invoice dated 23 June 2017 from £3,327.96 to £3,250 including 
VAT. They say this invoice had already  been  reduced prior to it being  issued. If Mr B and Mrs M were  
to accept this offer, it would mean  they would  pay Mattioli Woods £5,950 including VAT for the period 
covering 1 June 2016 until 31 May 2017. Mr B and Mrs M expected to pay only £3,300 including VAT 
for the transfer advice and annual management of their SIPP. 
Ive considered the different areas of work for which  Mattioli Woods  have charged fees - that Mr B and 
Mrs M didnt expect - to decide whether their offer is fair.
Ref: DRN22705406tax-free cash
On 18 March  2017,  after Mrs B obtained protection of her lifetime allowance, she indicated she 
wanted to draw down further tax-free cash. She asked  for confirmation that the transfer would  be 
covered by her annual management fee. On 24 March 2017, Mattioli  Woods  responded  to let her 
know that this would incur further charges outside of your fixed  fee. On 27 March  2017,  
Mattioli Woods told Mr B and Mrs M the fees for this process would be time costed and would be 
reviewed by [us] before an invoice is raised . I think this made  it sufficiently clear  this work would  
involve work,  and costs, that fell outside of the £1,500 capped  fee for the day to day administration of 
the SIPP.
On 29 March  2017,  Mrs B confirmed she wished to withdraw tax-free cash  and understood the fee 
for this transaction  will be a one off payment of £595 plus VAT. Mattioli  Woods explained some of the 
tax consequences of drawing her tax-free cash in one go. Mrs B then responded to say she 
appreciated the advice and recommendations, but wanted  further clarification. Mattioli Woods 
explained the benefits of taking  her tax-free cash on a phased basis and sent her the documentation  
she needed  to complete  the withdrawal. After  considering  the information provided, Mrs B decided  not 
to drawdown her tax-free cash. However, she said she found it a useful exercise and thanked 
Mattioli Woods for their help.
The timesheet listing shows the work  Mattioli Woods did looking into this for Mrs B (which cost 
£674.40 including  VAT). I think Mattioli Woods indicated, clearly  enough, that this work would incur  
fees outside of the fixed agreement. Even if I were to conclude that Mattioli Woods wasnt sufficiently 
clear the fee would still be payable even if Mrs B decided not to go ahead  with the work, I think  its 
likely she would have  still instructed Mattioli  Woods to go ahead  and look into the options.  I say this 
because Mrs B confirmed she found  the exercise  to be useful. So I think its fair that Mrs B pays  the 
fees for this work, which totals £674.70 including  VAT.
annual scheme charge
The SIPP illustration prepared  on 9 May 2016 sets out that the annual scheme  charge  is £704.40 per 
year, to be reviewed  annually. It also listed a Registered Pension Scheme Return charge of £81.60. 
The same  document  goes  on to list the £1,250 initial advisor fee and the average time-costed fees of 
£1,500. So Im satisfied this document outlines the charges applicable to the SIPP.  Im aware that the 
annual scheme charge  and scheme return  charge werent  detailed in the initial emails about  fees. But 
I wouldnt have necessarily expected this. These emails set out the fees for transfer advice and the 
management of the SIPP  the scheme itself has separate charges. Im also conscious  that the 
illustration  which Im satisfied made these  fixed charges  clear - was issued after the initial  emails. 
So if Mr B and Mrs M were  not expecting these  charges,  I would have  expected them to raise  this at 
that time. For this reason,  I think  Mattioli  Woods were entitled to invoice Mr B and Mrs M for the 
proportion of the scheme  charge listed  on the invoice dated 23 June 2017, which amounts to £364.80.
divorce advice
Mattioli Woods wrote  to Mr B on 12 June 2017, explaining their technical department recommended  
Mr B seek legal advice or they could arrange a quote for legal advice from their own solicitors.  Mr B 
said he didnt want advice but Mattioli Woods replied  saying they were unfamiliar with the relevant law 
and needed to appoint  a solicitor as this was outside of their knowledge and expertise. However, no 
quote was provided. 
Ref: DRN22705407On the invoice  xxx523, Mattioli Woods recorded fees of £499.50 under  the heading of divorce. I 
accept Mattioli Woods didnt provide an estimate, but I think  the fees of £499.50 are fair. I think it is 
reasonable to consider  the work involved to fall outside the day to day administration of the SIPP. I 
also think Mr B would have been prepared to incur these fees. I say this because Mr B did ask 
Mattioli Woods to do some  work around the divorce, including asking his contact at Mattioli  Woods  to 
talk to his ex-wifes lawyer  on 12 December 2016. Mr Bs divorce was finalised in early 2017,  after the 
SIPP was set up. This could potentially have affected the SIPP and I dont think it was unreasonable 
that this work  should be charged for. So I think its reasonable that Mattioli  Woods  invoiced Mr B and 
Mrs M for £499.50, or £599.40 including  VAT.
Mattioli Woods has also invoiced Mr B and Mrs M £826, or £991.20 including VAT, for technical 
consultancy fees relating to Mr Bs divorce. I accept Mr B didnt want  to seek advice from Mattioli 
Woods legal representatives. But it is clear from the emails Mattioli Wood sent Mr B in June 2017 that 
theyd been enquiring  with our technical department surrounding how we enforce the  divorce  
settlement. Mr B replied, asking  why the divorce  would  cause any complications. Mattioli  Woods  
explained they needed a solicitor to make sure there were  no tax consequences to the pension fund 
or Mr Bs ex-wife as a result of the divorce. From the emails Ive seen, it doesnt appear that Mr B 
questioned what was said about the proposal by Mattioli Woods representative. And, given that 
HMRC deemed  this to be a foreign divorce, I dont think this was necessarily  a straightforward matter. 
Im not sure what else Mr B could have done if hed been informed in advance of the charges for work  
that needed to be done by Mattioli Woods technical consultants. Again, I think this work  falls outside 
of the day-to-day management of the SIPP, so its reasonable that time-costed fees were  applied. 
These total £991.20 including  VAT, and I think its fair that these  are paid.
This means  that I think it was fair for Mattioli  Wood to charge for following  fees: 
£1,250 plus VAT initial transfer advice fee for Mrs M, or £1,500 including VAT
£1,500 plus VAT annual day-to-day  management  fee, or £1,800 including VAT 
£304  plus VAT proportion  of the annual  scheme charge, or £364.80 including  VAT
£562.25 plus VAT for work done  on tax-free cash, or £674.70  including VAT
£499.50 plus VAT for work done  on Mr Bs divorce, or £599.40 including VAT
£826  plus VAT for technical consultancy on Mr Bs divorce, or £991.20 including  VAT
These charges total £5,930.10 including  VAT. Mattioli Woods proposed reducing the total payable  
from 1 June 2016 until 31 May 2017 to £5,950 including  VAT. As there is a difference of less than 
£20, I dont  propose  to comment  on the remaining  time-costed  fees in detail and ask Mattioli  Woods  
to increase their offer and refund Mr B and Mrs M the fees they paid over £5,930.10 for the period 
covering 1 June 2016 until 31 May 2017. As Mr B and Mrs M paid Mattioli  Woods  £6,027.96 for this 
period, it should mean they get a refund of £97.86. Ive not recommended interest be added to this 
figure as Mattioli Woods offered Mr B and Mrs M a similar  figure to my recommendation  in September  
2017. I realise my decision  will disappoint Mr B and Mrs M, but Im not minded to ask Mattioli Woods 
to refund any further fees.
I think  there are a number of occasions where Mattioli Woods failed  to be sufficiently  clear about their 
charging structure. And although I think most of the fees charged were  unavoidable,  its evident that 
Mattioli Woods failed  to provide sufficient  notification prior to carrying out chargeable work. This in 
turn has caused Mr B and Mrs M inconvenience that could have been avoided had they followed their 
client agreement and provided an indication of potential costs prior to commending work. Having 
reconsidered about the inconvenience caused by the lack of clarity provided  by Mattioli Woods I 
agree with the investigators initial recommendation  of £250 compensation  each for Mr B and Mrs M  
so £500 in total.  I think  this fairly reflects the trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN22705408my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, I intend to uphold this complaint in part and require Mattioli  Woods  
do to what Ive set out above. 
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2270540