K820x#14complaint
Mr L1 and Mr L2 complain that Nationwide  Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2003.  
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out in 2003 in connection  with a 
loan. The loan was in joint names  with Mr L1 and his son Mr L2. The policy  was in the name  
of the son, Mr L2. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr L1 and Mr L2 didnt agree 
with our adjudicator  and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. I explain why below.
I have seen the loan agreement for the sale. The loan agreement describes the PPI as, 
Optional Credit Insurance.  The agreement explains  the cost and shows how that adds to 
the total monthly payment.  So, I think its more  likely  that PPI was presented as optional  and 
Mr L2 chose to take it and thats  how it came to be applied to his loan account. But I 
understand why he might  not remember this, given  these  events  happened  over 15 years 
ago.
Nationwide says the policy was sold without a formal  recommendation. Ive been shown no 
documentary evidence  that suggests that the policy was sold on an advised basis.  So, 
Nationwide had to give Mr L2 clear  enough  information about the policy  so he could decide if 
he wanted to buy it. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr L2 about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I dont think better  information  would have stopped him from buying it. I 
explain why I say that below. 
 
Mr L2 was eligible for the policy. In saying this, I have  considered Mr L2s testimony that he 
recalled having  a break in employment shortly  before the sale.  If that were  true it may have made 
him ineligible  for the benefits of the policy. However, the evidence recorded  by the business about 
Mr L2s employment history, which it says was provided by Mr L2, suggested there was no break  in 
employment. 
These events occurred many years  ago, and whilst I dont doubt that Mr L2s testimony 
represented his best recollections of these events, to provide a measure of clarity,  we asked Mr L2 
to request details of his periods of unemployment  from the Department for Works and Pensions.  
The information they provided suggested  that Mr L2s only claim for Jobseekers Allowance  came in 
2002, which was a full year before  the sale. So, it seems most  likely that Mr L2 was eligible for the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN28982422There are things that sometimes arent covered  by a policy like this, or for which  the benefit 
might be more difficult to get than may have been expected, but it seems  that Mr L2 wouldnt 
have been affected by those. For instance Mr L2 told us he was employed and had no pre-
existing medical conditions. 
And I think that Mr L2 had, most likely,  a need for the cover.  I say that whilst  noting that Mr 
L2 may have had some sick pay and could have relied on his family for support which may 
have been helpful for a while. But this policy could have paid out for up to a year if Mr L2 lost 
his job, and for the duration of the loan if he was too ill to work through  sickness or accident  
 for nearly two years.  So, having considered this, on balance,  I think that Mr L2 would have 
found the policy useful.
The policy appears  to have been flexible  in that Mr L2 may have got back a pro rata refund 
of the PPI premium  if he cancelled a policy early. 
And whilst I could understand  it if Mr L2 thought now that the policy was expensive,  I think 
the costs were set out clearly on the agreement and I havent  seen anything to make  me 
think the policy was unaffordable to Mr L2 or that he had a need to keep costs  down.  And 
given how long the policy could have paid out for, most likely, if Mr L2 made  a successful 
claim, he could have got back  quite a bit more  than he paid for it. 
So for the reasons given above  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put Mr L2 
off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint about Nationwide Building  Society  
brought to us by Mr L1 and Mr L2.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L1 and Mr L2 to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 August 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2898242