K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2002. The policy  was taken out 
when Mr C was applying  for a mortgage. The policy provided Mr C with cover  for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.  
I have decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr C says he specifically remembers being told he had to buy the PPI in order  to get the 
mortgage he wanted. He thinks the PPI was sold over the phone, although  the bank has 
sent me some evidence  that suggests  it was sold in a branch. I dont think how the PPI was 
sold affects my decision. 
I cant be sure what was discussed between him and the bank, so Ive looked  carefully  at the 
paperwork the bank  sent us. I can see the mortgage application form had a separate  section 
about PPI. It explained a little about  PPI and asked Mr C to tick either yes or no to confirm 
if he wanted it or not. The no box is ticked. I dont  think at this point Mr C can have thought 
he had to have  PPI.
There is also a separate  application form for PPI which Mr C signed  a couple of weeks  later. 
He may well have been  sent this form after having a conversation with Lloyds about it.
Again I dont know what was said at the time, but I can see the mortgage offer sent to Mr C a 
couple of days  later doesnt  mention  PPI. I cant see anything  else that implies that the PPI is 
compulsory. 
Overall, despite what Mr C remembers,  I think  the bank made him aware that PPI was 
optional and he chose  to take it out.
The bank has accepted that it advised  Mr C to take out the policy  and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable  for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
-Mr C was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
Ref: DRN24523662-Mr C cant  recall what work-related benefits he might have got if he couldnt work  due to 
a sickness or accident. And he did have some savings. However, the policy  would have 
paid out in addition to any occupational benefits.  Having  the policy in place would mean 
Mr C could use his work-related benefits  and savings to pay for other expenses. This 
would probably  have been  all the more important when  the policy was sold given that 
Mr C was solely responsible for repaying  the mortgage. 
-Mr C wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main  benefits, such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As he could have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover  I think  it unlikely Mr C 
needed better advice or information about the policys  exclusions and limitations.
-I dont know exactly when Mr C was told the cost of the PPI. But he signed a direct debit 
mandate, so I think he would  have known it cost something.  Ive seen nothing to suggest  
it was unaffordable or that the benefit  was insufficient to meet  his monthly  mortgage  
repayments.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already  said Mr C wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have  been affordable, I think it unlikely Mr C would have made  a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would  still have 
taken out the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2452366