K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs B says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Barclays has said the PPI was taken  out in a phone call four years  after the initial credit 
card was taken out. It no longer has a record of the call, which  is understandable 
considering the length of time that has passed. But it has said that it would have made the 
optional nature of the policy clear.  
Ive thought about this very carefully and as Mrs B had already been in possession of the credit 
card and using it for many years prior to the PPI being taken, I think she would have been aware 
that she didnt need the PPI for the credit. The premium for the PPI policy would have shown as 
a separate charge on Mrs Bs credit card statements. And so if Mrs B didnt know what this 
charge was, or hadnt agreed to take it out, I think she would have questioned this with Barclays 
sooner than she did.
Taking into account what Ive seen and been told, and what we already know about the way 
Barclays sold policies at that time, I think its more likely that Barclays made it clear to Mrs B that 
the policy was optional and she chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt 
want it.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Barclays  gave  Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been,  including  details about  the cost. But she chose to take it out - so it looks  like 
she wanted this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would  have  put her off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mrs B has said, including what  she has said about not needing 
the policy as she would  receive sick pay from her employer  if she was too ill to work.  But this 
policy would have paid out for up to 12 months which would be in addition to, and potentially  
for longer than,  any sick pay she would have received. So this point doesnt  change my 
decision.
Ref: DRN25470572my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2547057