K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2000 
alongside a credit card. Mr P says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr P says he wasnt told the PPI was optional and he didnt consent to it being  added to his 
account. However, based on the evidence Ive seen  I think Lloyds made  it clear  that Mr P 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
he cant remember this. I say this having seen a copy of his credit  card application form, 
which included a section  called Optional features . And in this section  there is an equally 
prominent yes and no option for PPI. The yes  box has been ticked showing Mr P agreed  
to take out the cover.  But I think its clear there was the option  to decline the policy  if he 
didnt want it. This document has been signed by Mr P - so I think this reflected what he 
wanted at the time. 
Mr P says he wasnt given any advice or recommendation to take out the policy,  but Lloyds 
says it did advise him to take out the cover. However, it is not necessary for me make a 
conclusive determination on this point. This is because Ive not found  that the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr P for the reasons  set out below. So, even if I assume advice was given, it 
does not affect  the outcome of this complaint. Therefore Ive considered this case  on the 
same basis  as Lloyds. As an advised sale Lloyds had to take reasonable steps to ensure 
that the PPI was right for Mr P. 
In Mr Ps initial testimony about  the sale of the policy, he said he was employed.  Ive seen 
that since our adjudicators assessment  Mr P responded to say he was partly self-employed 
at the time  so he says the policy wouldnt have been appropriate for him. But Mr P has 
only mentioned  this after our initial assessment and on both PPI questionnaires completed 
before this and in a further request for information   Mr P told us he was employed. Upon 
requesting more information  about  why Mr P didnt give us this information sooner, Mr Ps 
representative responded to tell us he was unemployed at the time of sale.  We also 
requested some evidence  of Mr Ps employed  status  from 2000,  but at the time of writing no 
evidence has been provided. The policy was sold a long time ago, which  is something Ive 
kept in mind when  deciding  what I think is more  likely, but Mr Ps evidence about  his 
employment has been inconsistent. 
Ive also looked  closely at Mr Ps credit  card application. In the employment  section there  are 
boxes for Mr P to indicate if he was employed,  self-employed, retired, in full-time education, 
unemployed, or a homemaker. The box to record Mr P was employed has been  ticked.  
Mr Ps recent evidence is that he was both employed and self-employed working with the 
same company in both capacities. But there was nothing to stop Mr P from ticking both the 
employed and self-employed boxes if he was working in both capacities  at the time. So 
Ref: DRN23686842based on all the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mr P was partly self-employed  at 
the time.  I think he was employed as per the information recorded  on the credit agreement. 
Taking into account what Ive said above, and everything else Ive seen of Mr Ps 
circumstances from the time I think the policy was suitable for him. I say this because  I dont 
think he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and, as he didnt 
have any sick pay or other  means  to make  his repayments, he seems  to have had a need for 
the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019. 
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2368684