K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  about the charges Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF) have asked 
her to pay to compensate  them  for the loss of sales revenue they say they incurred when 
she voluntarily terminated her finance agreement and returned a car it was financing.
background
Miss B took receipt of a used car in July 2015. She financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with SMF. In May 2018  she voluntarily terminated the agreement. She 
has been surprised  that SMF  have sought  payment from her for the difference between  what 
they sold the car for at auction and the value they thought it should have sold for.
SMF said the terms and conditions of Miss Bs contract said the car should be returned to 
them in a reasonable condition and that Miss B would be responsible  for any rectification 
required to bring  it up to standard. They didnt repair the car but chose to sell it at auction 
where it realised a sales price £1,050 lower than the CAP clean value. They  said Miss B was 
liable for this.
Miss B disagreed and she therefore  referred her complaint  to this service and our 
adjudicator provided  an opinion.  He didnt think the T&Cs  did give SMF the right to charge 
the difference between the CAP clean value and the price realised at auction. He explained 
that hed expect the car to have  been independently  inspected against the industry standard 
provided by the British  Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA)  and he didnt think 
that had been done or the limited photographic evidence that had been provided was 
sufficient to demonstrate any damage. He therefore  thought the charge for damages should  
be waived by SMF and any adverse reports that had been made to Miss Bs credit file 
should be removed.
SMF disagreed with the adjudicators view and they therefore asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint SMF so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
Ref: DRN29935632The hire purchase agreement says the goods should be returned in good  condition and they 
define good condition  as having full service records; an MOT document and needing no 
refurbishment. They say the car should  be free from mechanical or body damage; in the 
original paintwork and trim and with the interior free from damage.
Id expect that return condition to be established  through an independent  inspection  which  
considered any damage using the industry  guidelines on wear and tear that are provided by 
the BVRLA.
Thats not been done here. The appraisal  report Ive seen is of a poor standard. I dont think 
the photographs conclusively evidence the damage  thats recorded  and I note that SMF 
havent attempted to recover the £713  of damage noted in the appraisal report anyway but 
have instead tried to recover  the loss of resale  value of £1,050.
I cant see anything in the terms of the agreement that allows  them to do this. They are able 
to recover refurbishment charges if the car is returned in an unsatisfactory condition but here 
I dont think theyve been able to demonstrate that condition  or justify the charge theyve 
made. Indeed  the final response they provided to Miss B made no reference  to the charges 
suggested in the appraisal report. I therefore think it would  be fair and reasonable to tell 
them to waive the charges and ensure Miss Bs credit  file hasnt been impacted by this 
issue.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Specialist  Motor Finance 
Limited to:
waive the refurbishment charges theyve asked Miss b to pay
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Bs credit  file in relation to 
this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2993563