K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Stagemount Limited (Quid Market) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I upheld the complaint in part on 19 
September 2019. Ive attached a copy of my provisional decision and it forms part of this 
decision.
Mr G responded and said he had nothing further  to add and Quid Market  did not respond to 
my provisional decision by the date given, nor has it asked for extra  time to respond either. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.  And Ive taken this into account when considering this 
complaint.
As Quid Market hasnt responded and Mr G said he had nothing  further  to add, I see no 
reason why I should reach a different outcome to the one I reached in my provisional  
decision.
So I uphold this complaint in part and conclude that loans 4  7 were  irresponsibly lent.
putting things right  what Quid  Market  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr G paid on loans 4 - 7. As Mr G borrowed £500 and 
repaid a total of £570 on loan 7, this should leave Mr G with no outstanding balance 
left to pay.
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Gs credit file for loans 4  5 and 
loan 7;
the number  of loans taken by loan 6 means any information recorded about it is 
adverse. So all entries about  loan 6 should  be removed from Mr Gs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Quid Market to take off tax from this interest.  Quid  Market must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint 
in part and require Stagemount Limited to do what I have outlined  above to put matters  right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Ref: DRN27786942Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27786943Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr G says Stagemount  Limited (Quid Market) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about  5 payday loans  and 2 instalment loans that Quid  Market provided to Mr G 
between 19 July 2014 and 6 June 2017. Mr Gs borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan Number Date Taken Amount borrowed
Loan 1  Pay day loan 19 July 2014 £150
Loan 2  Pay day loan 8 August 2014 £225
Loan 3  Payday loan 5 September 2014 £300
Loan 4  Payday loan 4 November 2014 £375
Loan 5  Payday loan* 16 April 2015 £250
Loan 6  Instalment  loan 3 June 2015 £500
Loan 7  Instalment  loan 6 June 2017 £500
* This loan was required to be repaid in two instalments.  However as it was to be repaid  in a relatively 
short period of time, I have referred to it as a payday loan.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Gs complaint in part and thought the loans from 4 onwards shouldnt have 
been given to Mr G. The adjudicator then went on to say that, because of the gap between loan 6 
being repaid and loan 7 being agreed, loan 7 effectively constituted a new chain of lending and on 
that basis he thought  it wasnt irresponsibly  lent. 
Quid Market  agreed to uphold loan 4, but disagreed  that the other loans had been irresponsibly lent. 
So the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
As neither  party has disputed  that loans 1  3 were  responsibly lent, I will only address loans 4 to 7 in 
the decision below.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Quid Market  needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  
this means that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr G could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quid Market should  fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN27786944the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Quid Market  was required to establish whether 
Mr G could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
So taking all of the above  into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided  in this context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Loan 4
I understand that Quid Market accepts that it should not have lent loan 4 to Mr G. And it has offered to 
refund all the interest and charges that Mr G paid towards it and pay 8% simple interest, less tax, on 
the amounts due  which I think is reasonable. However, as the loan should  not have been agreed,  I 
think it is unfair if Mr G has any adverse  information showing on his credit file about this loan. So, in 
addition to what Quid Market has already offered to do, I currently think it should  also remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file about loan 4.
Loans 5 and 6
As our adjudicator  explained, by loan 5 Mr G had borrowed consistently from Quid Market  and during 
the previous loan (loan 4) had told Quid Market that he was experiencing  financial difficulties,  which 
led to a repayment  plan being arranged. 
Quid Market  says that because loan 5 was an instalment loan, it cost less per month to repay than a 
pay day loan for the same  amount wouldve. Whilst that might be true, Mr G still had to be able to 
sustainably repay the loan that was agreed. And Quid Market had, through  completing a credit check, 
seen that Mr G had £1,274 of outstanding personal loans in his name, yet still agreed to lend to him. 
And coupled with the likelihood that Quid Market saw that Mr G already had 3 defaults with other 
lenders when  it completed its credit check as well, I think it was evident that Mr G was unlikely to be 
able to sustainably  repay loan 5. 
Quid Market  says that it checked Mr Gs bank statement before agreeing to lend loan 5. But having 
looked at Mr Gs statements in the month prior to loan 5 being agreed, there are large sums  being 
transferred in and out of the account, so I dont  think just looking at the statement wouldve given an 
accurate insight into whether Mr G was able to sustainably repay the loan. 
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of Quid Markets lending history with Mr G with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which Quid Market should reasonably have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so Quid Market should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further  loans. 
Ref: DRN27786945Given the particular circumstances of Mr Gs case, I currently  think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point Quid Market  ought to have realised Mr G was not managing to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Mr G had been indebted to Quid Market for 10 months by then and hed already 
had to defer the repayment of his third loan and arrange a repayment plan on his fourth loan. 
So Quid  Market ought to have realised it was more  likely than not Mr G was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole left in his finances from repaying his previous  loan and that Mr Gs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Gs first loan was for £150 and loan 6 was for £500. And Mr G applied for loan 6  which  
was double the amount of loan 5 - only 5 days after repaying loan 5. At this point Quid Market  
ought to have known  that Mr G was not likely  borrowing  to meet a temporary shortfall  in his 
income but to meet  an ongoing need. 
Mr G wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Quid Market. Loan 6 was taken  
out 10 months after Mr Gs first loan. And it was for a larger amount with repayment  spread 
out over a longer  period  of time.  So Mr G had paid large amounts  of interest to, in effect, 
service a debt to Quid Market over an extended period of time.
I think  that Mr G lost out because Quid  Market  continued  to provide borrowing  in the form of loan 6 
because:
the loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number of loans and the length  of time over which Mr G borrowed  was likely to have had 
negative implications  on Mr Gs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im also intending to uphold the complaint about loan 6 and Quid Market  should put things right.
Loan 7
Turning to loan 7, I can see why the adjudicator eventually thought  that it was not irresponsibly  lent. 
After all, it was taken  out over 18 months after the previous loan had been repaid,  so it may not have 
been unreasonable for Quid  Market to have thought that Mr Gs financial circumstances mayve 
improved. And I can see that Mr G declared  an income  of £2,535  and total expenditure of £1,775 
(including £350 of credit  commitments) leaving a disposable income  of £760 per month to cover the 
six monthly payments of £160.
But in addition to relying on the declared information, Quid Market  also completed a credit check  and 
established that Mr Gs credit commitments were  higher than what  hed declared, and were actually 
£495 per month.  
I think  its likely that Quid Market wouldve  also seen that by that point, Mr G had 6 defaults registered 
against him spanning between 2013 and 2016. And this shouldve prompted it to do a fuller review on 
Mr Gs finances before  agreeing to lend to him again. 
Had it completed better checks, particularly around  the more  recent defaults that were  on 
Mr Gs credit file, I think its likely  it wouldve  established that Mr G was unable  to sustainably repay  
this loan - even though it was an instalment  loan with lower monthly repayments  than if it had been a 
payday loan over a shorter period of time.  
Ref: DRN27786946For example, since the previous Quid Market  loan, Mr G had defaulted on an unsecured  loan and a 
payday loan in April and June 2016 respectively. And the outstanding balances  on those accounts  
were £813  and £78 respectively. Mr G was also struggling to manage the debt on a credit card and 
after the balance kept creeping  up throughout early 2017 he entered into an arrangement to repay the 
debt in April 2017, this time owing  £1,837.  And these defaults were  in addition to accounts  hed 
defaulted on previously that he was also having  to repay  all of which I think  wouldve likely  to have 
been evident  from a credit check completed in June  2017.
So I think proportionate checks wouldve made Quid Market realise  that Mr Gs financial 
circumstances had not improved and that he was still not in a financial  position  to be able to 
sustainably repay loan 7.
So I dont currently think that Quid Market  shouldve  lent loan 7 to Mr G either.
putting things  right  what Quid  Market  needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr G paid on loans  4 - 7. As Mr G borrowed £500 and repaid  a 
total of £570 on loan 7, this should leave Mr G with no outstanding  balance left to pay.
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Gs credit file for loans 4  5 and loan 7;
the number of loans taken by loan 6 means any information recorded  about  it is adverse. So 
all entries about loan 6 should be removed  from Mr Gs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Quid Market to take off tax from this interest.  Quid  Market must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
Based on what I have  said above,  I currently intend  to uphold this complaint and require Stagemount  
Limited to do what I have  said above to put matters right.
I now invite  Mr G and Stagemount Limited to give me any further information  they want me to 
consider, before I make  my final decision. This must be provided to us by 3 October 2019.
Thomas White 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2778694