K820x#14complaint
Mr Es complaint is that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him both the Select  and Platinum 
packaged accounts.
background
Mr E held two separate accounts with Lloyds which he converted a number of times. His 
account history is as follows
Account ending 168:
20 November 1998 opened as a fee-free account
24 September 2007  upgraded to a Select account
21 August 2008  upgraded to a Platinum account
1 November 2010  downgraded to a fee-free  account
Account ending 560:
1 November 2010  opened  as a Platinum account
23 July 2012   downgraded to a fee-free account
Account ending 168:
23 July 2012   upgraded to a Platinum account
30 June 2017   Club account added  making it a Platinum Club account.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt  think Lloyds had mis-sold the Select or 
the Platinum accounts. Mr E disagreed  with the outcome  so the complaint has been passed  
to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Es complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the packaged accounts to Mr E. Ill explain 
why. 
Select account
Mr E says he was told he had to take out the Select account for mortgage and overdraft 
applications. Hes also said that he felt pressured into upgrading the account. Its not 
possible for me to know exactly what was said when the account was upgraded, so Ive 
taken into consideration everything  available me to determine what I think  is most likely to 
have happened  in the circumstances. 
Mr E held a fee-free account with Lloyds for nine years before upgrading it to a Select  
account. So I can see he was aware  of the existence of fee-free accounts. During that time, 
Mr E had an overdraft and took out two loans.  So he was aware he could apply for and take 
out borrowing  whilst having a fee-free account.  And the contact notes on file from this time 
show Mr E had a fixed term mortgage  elsewhere  and didnt want to amend it. Having 
carefully considered  what Mr E has said and the evidence available, I think its more likely 
Ref: DRN23188622Lloyds gave Mr E a fair choice when the account was upgraded and that he chose to take 
upgrade the account knowing he didnt have to. 
I understand that Mr E felt under pressure to take the Select  account.  And I can appreciate  
that businesses  can be insistent on offering new products and services to their customers. 
But in order for me to agree  with Mr E, Id have  to agree its more likely  he was left with no 
other option but to upgrade the account,  rather than keep the one he had. And I havent 
seen enough to safely conclude this. 
Lloyds has said it recommended the account  the Mr E, so it had to make sure that it was 
suitable for him based on his circumstances  at the time. So Ive looked to see whether or not 
the exclusive benefits on the Select  account were right for Mr E. At the time of the sale the 
Select account came with breakdown cover, mobile  phone insurance, card protection and a 
£50 interest free arranged overdraft. 
Mr E registered a handset on the mobile phone insurance just two weeks  after upgrading the 
account. The contact  notes from the time of the upgrade show  Lloyds recommended the 
account for the mobile phone insurance.  This was because Mr E had a separate policy 
costing him £8 per month,  whereas the Select account had mobile phone insurance  amongst 
other benefits and only cost £7 per month.  So by upgrading the account, Mr E would be 
saving £1 per month and would receive other benefits he could find useful such  as the 
breakdown cover. With this in mind,  Im satisfied that the recommendation for the Select 
account was right for Mr E. 
Lloyds also had to give Mr E enough information so that he knew what  he was agreeing  to. 
As explained earlier, Mr E registered  a handset under the mobile phone  insurance just a few 
weeks after upgrading the account. So I think its likely he received some information about  
the benefits on the account and how to use them. While  its possible  Lloyds  didnt tell Mr E 
everything about the account, considering his interest in the mobile phone insurance,  I dont  
think better information wouldve made him change his mind  about upgrading. 
Platinum account
Just under a year after the account  was upgraded to a Select  account,  Mr E upgraded it 
again to a Platinum account. Lloyds has given us a copy  of the application form for the 
upgrade which Mr E signed to agree to it. I cant see that Mr Es circumstances  had 
significantly changed since  the upgrade to the Select  account  so I think  he was still aware he 
could have a fee-free account  if he wanted one. The contact notes from the time of the 
Platinum upgrade show Mr E was concerned  about charges hed been receiving for being  
overdrawn and that he upgraded to the Platinum account for the special offer price and the 
interest-free overdraft.  So I think its more likely he chose to upgrade to the Platinum 
account for the overdraft benefits,  knowing that he didnt have to. 
Lloyds has told us that it also recommended the Platinum account to Mr E. At the time of the 
sale, the Platinum  account had worldwide  travel insurance, breakdown  cover, mobile phone 
insurance, card protection and £250 interest-free planned overdraft with preferential  rates  
above that. Mr E registered phones under the mobile phone insurance,  claimed  on the 
breakdown cover in 2017 and contacted the insurance provider for the travel cover. So I 
think he couldve found the benefits  useful.
Ref: DRN23188623Ive also considered whether or not the Platinum account was the most  suitable one for Mr E 
considering the other accounts  Lloyds  had on offer at the time. The Platinum account offered 
family cover under the worldwide travel insurance and was the cheapest  account  to do so. In 
2011, Mr E contacted  the travel insurance provider specifically about children being covered 
on the policy. So I think its more  likely  the family  cover was useful to him. And as explained 
above, Mr E could also have benefitted from the interest free portion and preferential rates 
on the overdraft.  So I think the Platinum account was the most suitable  option for him.  
Lloyds again had to give Mr E clear information  about the account.  Mr E continued to 
actively engage with the benefits  on the account by contacting insurers and registering 
handsets to the mobile phone insurance. So I also think  he was given  some  information 
about the account and how it worked.  And I dont think  receiving better information about  the 
Platinum account  wouldve  changed his decision to upgrade  the account.
Mr E continued to have  the Platinum account,  but he moved this around his accounts ending 
168 and 560. The contact notes show this was to consolidate the overdrafts he held over the 
two accounts. But seeing as he was just moving the Platinum account  between his two 
accounts, I havent assessed these  as new sales.  And I think  Mr Es continued management 
of his accounts show he was aware he could have and maintain fee-free accounts  if he 
wanted to. 
On balance, I think Mr E chose to upgrade to packaged accounts knowing that he didnt 
have to, after having a reasonable idea of what the packaged accounts contained. So I dont 
think Lloyds mis-sold the Select or Platinum accounts.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2318862