K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that Barclays Bank  UK Plc failed to make a transfer to an account she holds 
overseas.
background
Ms P gave instructions for Barclays to transfer money to an account  she holds overseas. But 
the transfer was made to an incorrect account, and Ms P hasnt been able to get her money  
back. Ms P says Barclays filled in the transfer instructions incorrectly,  so she considers  its 
responsible for her loss.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She thought it was likely  
that Barclays had asked Ms P to confirm the transfer details before it completed the 
transaction. She also found that Barclays had given Ms P a receipt that confirmed the 
transaction details.
The adjudicator was also satisfied that Barclays had done what  it could to try to help Ms P 
recover her money.
Overall, the adjudicator didnt find that Barclays was at fault.
Ms P didnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ms P says Barclays filled in the transfer  instructions  on her behalf, and that it got the 
receiving account  details wrong.  Ive noted  everything Ms P has said. But on balance, I think  
its unlikely that Barclays wouldve  completed  the transaction without first asking Ms P to 
confirm that the details  were correct.
Im also mindful that Barclays  gave  Ms P a receipt that included all of the receiving account  
details.
So from what Ive seen,  I havent been able to safely conclude that Barclays was responsible  
for the transfer  being made to the wrong  account.
Im also satisfied that Barclays did what it could to help Ms P to recover  her money from the 
receiving account, once shed discovered what had happened.
I am, of course, sympathetic to what has happened to Ms P on this occasion. But for the 
reasons Ive explained I dont find that Barclays is at fault. So there  are no reasonable 
grounds on which I can uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN22334592my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2233459