K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that MYJAR  Limited  lent to him in an irresponsible  manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 3 March 2020,   
an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I wont  repeat that 
information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that MYJAR shouldnt  have given Mr B 
loans seven and eight. I set out what I proposed to direct it to do to put matters  right.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Both Mr B and MYJAR  accepted my provisional  decision.   
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mr B nor MYJAR  have provided me with anything  further  on the 
complaint, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. So, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  that MYJAR should  have  given
Mr B loans seven and eight.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr Bs complaint in 
part. I now require MYJAR Limited to:
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans seven and eight;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans seven and eight from Mr Bs credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR  to take off tax from this interest.  MYJAR must  
give Mr B a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29611672extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr B complains that MYJAR  Limited  lent to him in an irresponsible  manner.
background
Mr B took out eight loans with MYJAR between March 2016 and June 2018. The loans were 
repayable in one, three or six, monthly  repayments.  Mr B repaid all the loans. A summary  of 
Mr Bs borrowing  from MYJAR is as follows:
date £ amount 
borrowedno. of 
repayments at outset date repaid
17 March 2016 100 1 24 March 2016
24 April 2016 200 3 28 June 2016
329 June 2016 100 1 28 July 2016
41 August 2016 100 1 26 August 2016
510 May 2017 400 3 28 July 2017
62 August 2017 600 3 30 October 2017
71 November 2017 700 6 27 April 2018
812 June 2018 500 3 28 March 2018
Mr B says he couldnt afford to repay  the loans. 
One of our adjudicators  assessed Mr Bs complaint. She said that MYJAR shouldnt have 
given Mr B loans four, seven and eight. The adjudicator set out what  she thought MYJAR 
should do to put things right.
Mr B agreed  with the adjudicators assessment. MYJAR agreed  with the adjudicators  
assessment in relation to loans seven and eight but not in relation to loan four. It said that 
there was a nine month gap between Mr B repaying loan four and taking out loan five, which
indicated that the first four loans were  used as intended, to get through a temporary
cash- flow problem.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant  rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Ref: DRN29611673MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should  have carried  out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These  factors  
include:
    the lower  a customers  income  (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher  repayment from a particular  level of income);
    the greater  the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MYJAR was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably  repay  his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular, the customer  should be able to make  repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments  without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
MYJAR has agreed with the adjudicators assessment in relation to loans seven and eight.
So, Im going to concentrate on loans one to six.
There was a gap in lending of over eight months between Mr B repaying loan four and 
taking out loan five. I think  that gap was such that MYJAR was entitled  to treat Mr B as a 
new borrower from loan five. So, Im looking at two chains of lending  here:  loans one to four 
and loans five to eight.
Ref: DRN29611674I dont think that MYJAR was wrong  to give Mr B loans one to four. Given the repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Bs circumstances  at the time and his history with 
the lender at that point,  I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate for MYJAR to ask Mr B 
for the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  There wasnt 
anything in the information Mr B provided or the information MYJAR  shouldve been aware 
of, which meant  it wouldve been  proportionate for it to start verifying what  Mr B said.  And I 
dont think that the pattern of lending was such at this stage  that MYJAR should have 
realised that the borrowing was unsustainable.
As Ive said, loan five was the beginning of a new chain  of lending. For the same reasons as
Ive set out above, I dont  think  that MYJAR was wrong to give Mr B loans five and six.
MYJAR has agreed to the adjudicators assessment in relation to loans seven and eight. I
propose to direct MYJAR to put things  right as set out below.
putting things right   what MYJAR needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans seven and eight;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans seven and eight from Mr Bs credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR  to take off tax from this interest.  MYJAR 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, I intend  to uphold  Mr Bs complaint in part. I intend to direct
MYJAR Limited to pay Mr B compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN2961167