K820x#14Complaint
Miss M complains that Chetwood Financial Limited, trading as Livelend, are holding  her 
liable for a loan she says she didnt take out. 
Background
On the 19 February  2019 a loan for £3,500 from Livelend was taken out in Miss Ms name. 
And £3,500  was paid into Miss Ms account with a bank  Ill call Bank  B. 
On the 20 February  2019 £3,400 was withdrawn from Miss Ms account from a branch with 
Bank B.
Livelend struggled  to contact Miss M, so contacted Bank B to obtain new contact  details. On 
speaking with Bank B, Livelend were provided  with new contact  details.
On the 12 and 13 March 2019  the business  phoned  Miss M using the new telephone number 
provided by Bank B. During the first call Livelend ask the caller  to confirm their identity, 
which they confirm  as Miss M, then say theyre  happy with the loan. On the second call, the 
person claiming  to be Miss M passes  security  including  an additional security question  
and advises why they took out the loan. 
On the 4 April 2019  Miss M phoned  Livelend  to raise a dispute about the loan. She also 
complained that Livelend  had been harassing her with reminders about the loan payments.  
Livelend looked  into Miss Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. The business said theyd 
followed the correct  procedures and dont think the loan was taken out fraudulently. And 
theyd sent a reasonable number of reminders regarding payments. 
Miss M wasnt  happy with Livelends response  so she complained to our service. Miss M 
explained that this had affected her financially and emotionally. 
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Ms complaint. They asked Miss M some  more 
questions about  how she became aware  of the loan and who could have got hold of her 
details.
Miss M initially  informed our investigator  that she gave her account number and sort code to 
a friend  to allow them to make  payments  into her account. A few weeks  after the loan was 
taken out she noticed her mobile phone bill was higher  than expected and became 
suspicious. And shed  withdrawn the £3,500 from Livelend,  not knowing it was a loan 
payment, and because  she didnt know what it was handed it into staff at Bank B. Miss M 
also explained that other loans were taken out in her name.
During a further  conversation with our investigator, Miss M explained that her friend had 
informed her the money was going  to be deposited into her account and she withdrew it and 
handed it to him that afternoon. And she didnt realise it was a loan that had been taken out 
in her name. 
Miss M provided  copies  of letters from two mobile phone companies and two loan 
companies indicating  that fraudsters had taken out mobile  phone  contracts and loans in her 
name, without her authority. 
Ref: DRN22375192However, our investigator concluded that it was likely Miss M either took out or authorised 
the loan to be taken out. In summary  she said that Miss Ms explanations of what  happened 
were inconsistent. 
Miss M didnt accept our investigators conclusion. And said in reply:
-She didnt take out the loan.  
-A friend told her he wanted to transfer  money  into her account; and
-He told her to withdraw  the money.  
As Miss M didnt  accept our investigators conclusion  its been passed to me for a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain why below. 
Ive considered whether I think Miss M took out or authorised  the Livelend  loan.  And having 
done so Im satisfied  on balance  Miss M authorised the loan. 
Ive looked at the personal and contact  details provided to Livelend  when the loan was taken  
out. And Im satisfied  that whoever took out the loan gave Livelend a different mobile number  
and email address  to what Miss M provided our service. Livelend have confirmed that 
identification documents werent required to take out the loan,  and only an electronic 
signature was required,  so Ive not been  able to compare this with Miss Ms signature.  
However, to take out the loan a fraudster would need to know Miss Ms home address and 
date of birth. Miss M explained her friend  would know these details   and Im satisfied  this is 
possible. But although I accept this is possible, I dont think this is the most likely explanation 
of what happened. And Ill explain why below.
Miss Ms been inconsistent in her explanations about her knowledge of the loan, and what 
happened to the funds  once they were  withdrawn.  Initially Miss M advised  our service that 
shed shared her bank  details with a friend because they wanted to pay some money in, but 
on visiting her bank  she was surprised to notice £3,500 had been deposited into her 
account. So she withdrew the funds  and left it with the staff at Bank  B. Our investigator 
contacted Bank B who advised  that they dont  have a process for accepting funds in this 
way, and have  no record this occurred. 
In a second phone call with the investigator Miss M explained that this isnt actually what  
happened. She reiterated sharing her bank details  with a friend, but said hed explained 
money would  be coming into her account and asked  her to withdraw this and give it to him  
which is what she did. But, Miss M said she had no knowledge of the loan application. Our 
investigator asked Miss M why she initially told our service shed handed the money  to bank 
employees but she wasnt able to explain this. Ive thought about Miss Ms most recent  
explanation of what happened   but on balance I find this explanation unlikely. I dont think  
Miss Ms given a plausible  explanation for why she didnt ask her friend more questions  
about the money or check the origin of the funds before withdrawing them. I can also see 
that Miss M didnt withdraw the entire  £3,500, instead only taking out £3,400 which is 
contrary to her explanations. 
Ref: DRN22375193Miss M raised  her concerns with Livelend, about the loan,  on the 4 April 2019. Im surprised 
that Miss M wasnt concerned about  the £3,500 deposit sooner. Miss Ms explained that at 
the same  time as someone taking  out a loan with Livelend,  the fraudsters were taking out 
additional mobile phone contracts  in her name and applying for other  loans. Shes provided 
our service  with copies of letters received from these businesses. And I agree, these do 
indicate Miss M has been the victim  of fraud.  But, what  I find unusual is that one of the 
emails Miss M provided is dated  the 22 February  2019  only three  days after this loan was 
taken out. This is a letter from a loan company saying they agree that Miss M has been the 
victim of fraud  and therefore they wont be holding  her liable  for the loan. I think  this shows  
that Miss M was aware her identity  was compromised at that time, and considering only 
three days before shed  withdrawn £3,500 Id have expected her to check  her statement 
much sooner  than she did to see where these funds  had originated  from. 
As Ive explained above, the phone number provided to Livelend  when the loan was taken  
out is different  to the one Miss M provided  our service. However after Livelend were unable  
to get in touch  with Miss M, they reached  out to Bank B to ask for Miss Ms contact details. 
Bank B provided Livelend with the telephone  number on their records  which is the same 
phone number Miss M has provided  our service. On the 12 and 13 March  2019 Livelend 
phoned this number and spoke with someone  who claimed to be Miss M. Ive listened to 
these calls and compared them  with other  calls made by Miss M to our service.  I cant  be 
completely sure that its Miss M on the calls, but I find a number of other factors persuasive.  
The caller  confirms they are aware of all three  phone numbers that have been provided  to 
Livelend, theyre  happy  with the loan and answer a further security question. I find it 
implausible that after providing a different contact number to Livelend  a fraudster would also 
have access to the number Miss M had provided Bank B. And the number which she 
continues to use and give to our service.
Overall, Im satisfied that on balance  Miss M consented to the loan with Livelend.  And it 
follows I wont be asking Livelend to do anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Miss Ms complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2237519