K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that: 
The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited (Prudential) closed the funds that her 
pensions were  invested in without her consent. And it then invested  them  into cash 
funds which she says werent in line with the risk profile of her original funds. 
Prudential then didnt  provide her with sufficient information to make  a decision about  
switching her money to other  more suitable  funds.  
In order to switch her money  to more suitable  funds  shell  need to take financial 
advice which she believes Prudential should  pay for.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 9 May 2019, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought Prudentials  offer to pay £50 for any 
inconvenience it had caused was fair and reasonable and invited both parties  to send any 
additional comments or evidence they wished to make.  
Prudential said it accepted the provisional  decision, but Miss A didnt  agree.  She said it 
wasnt fair that a provider  could close pension funds without providing  information on 
alternative, suitable funds to invest in. She said she still hadnt received the help she needed 
to reinvest her pension  without having to engage a financial adviser   which  wasnt her fault, 
and she would be in the same position  now even if shed questioned Prudentials actions 
earlier.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I fully appreciate  Miss As frustrations 
at the situation  she finds  herself in. 
But as I explained  in my provisional decision Prudential  was entitled to make the decision to 
close the fund Miss A was invested in, and Im satisfied that it explained this to her and 
made her aware that she was required to take some action to move her money  into another  
fund  or she would  end up invested  in a cash fund.  
I previously said that Prudential could have been  more helpful in directing Miss A to its 
website  for details  of the alternative  funds  in its first letter to her. But I think it did make 
her aware that she needed to take some kind of action.
Ultimately the issue here is that Prudential wasnt Miss As financial adviser  and theres no 
evidence of any arrangement where  it offered to give her advice. So it wasnt able to make 
any form of recommendation about what funds might have been suitable for Miss A to 
reinvest into. Its unfortunate that Miss A doesnt  think the information shes  been  provided 
with has enabled  her to decide how she should invest  but I dont  think thats an error 
Prudential has made. 
Prudential did make Miss A aware that she ought  to consider taking financial advice in order 
to reinvest her funds,  but I dont think it should  be responsible for any costs  that might 
Ref: DRN29897712involve. I understand  Miss As disappointment that she would have to bear the costs for any 
advice that stemmed  from Prudentials decision to close one of its funds, but these are 
commercial decisions that a business is entitled to make from time to time. What  I would 
expect is for the business to make a consumer aware of its actions and provide whatever 
information is necessary  to act accordingly.  In this case Im satisfied Prudential  did that.
I know Miss A would like me to tell Prudential to make  her aware of which fund is a suitable 
replacement for the one she was invested  in  or to at least pay for the advice she might  
need to make that choice. But I think overall  Prudential has acted fairly in how its treated 
Miss A, following the closure of one of her original pension funds.
Prudential did offer to pay Miss A £50 for not returning one of her calls and also not 
confirming one of the switches in writing.  And I think in the circumstances and how that 
impacted Miss A thats a fair and reasonable offer.
my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, Ive decided The 
= Prudential Assurance Company Limited should pay Miss A £50 if it hasnt already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29897713copy of provisional decision
complaint
Miss A complains  that: 
The Prudential  Assurance Company Limited  (Prudential) closed the funds  that her pensions 
were invested  in without her consent. And it then invested them into cash funds  which she 
says werent in line with the risk profile of her original funds. 
Prudential then didnt  provide her with sufficient information to make a decision about 
switching her money to other more  suitable funds.  
In order  to switch her money to more suitable funds shell need to take financial advice which  
she believes Prudential  should pay for.
background
Miss A held a number  of free standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plans  through 
Prudential, who had taken  over the administration of the plans from a previous provider. In 
October 2017 Miss A received a letter from Prudential which explained  that it had taken  the decision  
to close  the funds  that two of her plans were invested  in and that she should  switch  to alternative 
funds  by a certain date  or Prudential  would automatically switch the plans into cash funds. At that 
time her money was invested  in a safeguard fund.
In March 2018  Prudential issued a follow  up letter  explaining that it had moved  Miss As investment in 
the pension plan into a cash  fund on 8 December 2017, and said that she should  consider switching 
from cash to an alternative fund.
In June 2018  Miss A telephoned Prudential regarding the letter shed received in 
October 2017. She requested copies of the fact sheets for the alternative funds. Several days later 
she complained that she hadnt received a call back  as agreed. She also said she hadnt received a 
closing statement for one of her plans and wanted to know  why both plans had been closed.
Prudential apologised for not calling Miss A back and also for not confirming   in writing,  one of the 
switches. It paid Miss A £50 compensation for any inconvenience caused by both matters.  But it said 
it had now provided details of the plans  including the funds  they were  invested in, and confirmed 
that the plans werent closed  although the funds they were originally  invested in had been.  
Miss A was unhappy with the response and in July 2018 she complained to Prudential.  In summary 
she said that:
Prudential hadnt explained why it closed the original fund and switched her into a cash fund.
She hadnt given her consent for Prudential to close the fund and didnt  believe the cash  fund 
was a suitable alternative.
Prudential should pay for the cost of the financial advice she required to establish  what  funds 
were suitable  for her.
Prudential should refund any investment loss shed  suffered while she was invested in the 
cash fund.
Prudential didnt uphold Miss As complaint  explaining  that it had made  a business decision to close 
the fund her plans were  invested in  and that it had written to Miss A, setting out her alternatives. It 
said it also confirmed  that a cash fund might not be a suitable alternative fund and recommended that 
Miss A sought  financial advice.
Miss A didnt agree. After  further  correspondence with Prudential she brought her complaint to us. Her 
money remains invested  in a cash fund.
Ref: DRN29897714One of our investigators looked into the complaint  and said that Prudential should  pay an extra  £100 
for not making Miss A aware of the alternative funds that were available in October  2017. But she 
didnt think Prudential should pay for any financial advice Miss A might need and shouldnt have to 
compensate Miss A for any investment loss she might  have suffered.  
Miss A said the information  shed already received wasnt sufficient  and she just wanted to be able to 
switch to similar funds to what shed  originally  held, without being  financially disadvantaged.
Prudential didnt agree to the investigators recommendation  to pay a further £100 compensation as it 
said it hadnt done anything  wrong. As no resolution  could be found  the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Miss A has said that Prudential shouldnt  have  closed  the funds she was invested  in originally  and 
also didnt provide  her with what she needed,  to switch  to other suitable  funds. She also wants 
Prudential to pay for the advice  she now says shell need to complete the switch.  
Ive considered all three parts of Miss As complaint  and I dont  think Prudential has done anything  
wrong here. I know Miss A will be disappointed with that outcome, so Ill explain why.
Closure of existing funds
In October 2017 Prudential wrote  to Miss A to explain that it was closing the safeguard fund that her 
pension was invested in. This was a commercial  business decision that Prudential made  having 
reviewed its fund range.  Prudential was entitled to exercise such  a legitimate business decision and 
we wouldnt normally  interfere in that process. I dont think it needed Miss As consent to make its 
decision, but what I would expect Prudential  to have  done  is to inform  Miss A of the decision  giving 
its reasons, and offering  options  and alternatives so that Miss A wasnt disadvantaged. 
And I think it did that in the letter it sent to Miss A in October 2017 which explained:
We regularly review the funds we offer, to help you get the best from your investment. This means 
we're closing  at least one of the funds you have on 8 December 2017. Details  of your affected 
investments are attached. Where we're closing a fund, we'll move your money  to another  Prudential  
fund with the most similar investment objective. When that's not possible we'll move you into the 
Prudential Cash Pension Fund. 
So I dont think Prudential did anything  wrong here as I think it did explain why it was closing  the 
funds and it did explain  to Miss A what options she had. 
Failure to let Miss A know about the alternative funds.
In her letter of 20 June 2018 to Prudential  Miss A said In October  of last year I received a letter from 
Prudential advising me that you were closing the above FSAVCs and that I would need to choose a 
new fund or they would  be placed  into a Cash Pension Fund. 
So Im satisfied that Miss A was aware that the funds were being  closed and that some action  was 
required or she would be invested into cash funds. In the same letter  Miss A has referred  to, 
Prudential advised:
in the current low interest rate environment a cash fund should not be considered an alternative 
investment. We highly recommend that you consider an alternative  investment.
Ref: DRN29897715It also gave  details of how she could contact an adviser if required. 
So I think Prudential  had made it clear  that if an alternative wasnt chosen then the default cash fund 
might not be appropriate in the longer term. And it also made it clear that  as her plan administrator   
it wasnt able to give her any advice on what funds she should switch into.
But Miss A has said that she wasnt provided with any details of alternative funds  and so she couldnt 
make any decision about a switch. So Ive considered the letter from October  2017 very carefully to 
establish whether Miss A was given sufficient information to act or whether  Prudential should have 
done more. 
The letter, under the heading what  are your options stated you can choose to: switch  into any of the 
funds available for your product or do nothing. Within  the first option the letter said that an enclosed 
form needed to be returned detailing any new funds that were chosen. I note that Prudential referred 
to moving the money  to another fund with the most suitable investment objective and within  the 
letter quite clearly explained  details of the closing safeguard fund and details of the replacement fund 
 which was the cash  fund.  
But I dont think Prudential was in a position to recommend a suitable  fund as it wasnt able to give 
Miss A any advice. I think Prudential  had a duty to make Miss A aware that she should take advice 
before making a decision and it needed to explain what the default position would  be if she didnt. And 
I think  Prudential did that within the letter.
Ive gone on to consider if Prudential  should  have  provided details  of the funds that were available to 
Miss A. And I accept  that it might have been more  helpful if it had directed Miss A to its website for 
details of all of its funds. But I think, overall, Prudentials letter made  it clear  that Miss A needed  to 
take some kind of action or her pension plan would be automatically invested into a cash  fund. So I 
would have expected Miss A to have contacted Prudential  on receipt of the letter  to enquire as to 
what funds were available. 
I note she didnt  make  that enquiry until June 2018, having already received another letter in 
March 2018, to confirm  the switch to a cash fund. If Miss A wasnt able to make a choice  in 
October 2017  due to a lack of information, I would  have expected her to have contacted Prudential  
at that point. I note she said she was aware she would be invested into the cash  fund  which she has 
said wasnt appropriate for her. So by contacting Prudential and asking for details  of alternative funds 
she would have been able to mitigate any possible  investment loss incurred by investing in cash.
Cost of providing financial advice
I know Miss A says shes not qualified or informed  enough  to make a choice on which  funds  to switch  
to  and that the information she was provided with by Prudential wasnt clear enough for her to 
understand. And I have some sympathy for her position because she just wants her pensions to be 
invested in a similar way to how they were originally. But Prudential didnt advise her on how she 
should invest  her pension plans originally and because its not her adviser it cant  do that now. 
Ive looked at the fund fact sheets available  to consumers  on Prudentials website so Im aware of the 
information available.  And I dont think Prudential  can do any more than make that information 
available to Miss A in a form thats  prescribed by the regulator. So, if Miss A feels shes unable to 
make a decision  about  which  funds to switch into  based on the information available, I would 
encourage her to seek advice on the matter.
But Miss A has said that  if she takes any financial advice, its going  to cost in the region  of £1,000  
from what she says Prudential has told her. Im not aware of what the cost of advice  would be, but Im 
afraid  in my view, its a cost Miss A would have to bear and it wouldnt be fair for me to ask 
Prudential to pay for it. 
Ref: DRN29897716Prudential is the administrator of Miss As plan and hasnt ever advised  her on an investment strategy. 
It doesnt  have any advisory relationship with Miss A. So if Miss A had wanted to take any advice 
throughout the term of the plan, which  could  have previously included  switching funds, she would  
have needed to seek out this advice herself and pay for it. 
Its unfortunate that this situation has arisen because Prudential has taken the decision to close one 
of its existing funds  but as Ive said its entitled to do that. I think  Prudential has given Miss A the 
information she needs  in order for her to choose alternative funds, but if she doesnt feel able to do 
that then she will have to consider taking financial  advice, which unfortunately is likely to incur a cost.
Compensation
Prudential has accepted that its service was below  standard  when not confirming one of the switches 
in writing and also when not calling Miss A back on one occasion.  It has paid Miss A £50 for the 
inconvenience that caused. In the circumstances I think thats a fair settlement for what  happened.  
But I dont think Prudential should have to do anything further. It didnt say it had enclosed details of 
alternative funds within its letter of October 2017  so I cant say its made an error  for which it should 
pay further compensation. 
As I said previously it would have been  helpful for Prudential to have provided  alternative fund details 
or pointed  Miss A to where that information was held. But I think it was clear  to Miss A what  was going 
to happen when the original funds were closed   and I think she could have asked for the information 
she required  to decide how to switch  her money elsewhere if she didnt want  the default  cash  fund to 
be used. 
I havent seen any evidence to show that Prudential was going  to invest the money  elsewhere so I 
dont think Miss A should have expected it to have  done that. I think it was clear that the letter 
explained she was required to act by telling Prudential which fund she wanted to invest in. I cant 
safely say its Prudentials  fault that she felt unable  to do that, or that Prudential should pay for any 
financial advice for switching funds that Miss A might now decide to take.  
 
my provisional  decision
I am aware  that The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited has made an offer to pay 
Miss A £50 for the poor service it provided. I think such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. My decision  is that The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  should  pay Miss A 
£50.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2989771