K820x#14complaint
Mr C complained because  Skrill Limited  refused to refund him for a debit of €2949.43 from 
his account, which he said he hadnt authorised.
 
background
In June 2017, Mr C set up an account with Skrill. A Skrill account  is an electronic money 
account, which enables  customers  to send and receive electronic payments. Mr C opened 
his account, which was in euros, because he wanted to use it for gambling.
On 28 March 2019, Mr C received  a phone notification that €2949.43 had been debited  from 
his account, and sent to another Skrill account.  Mr C got in touch with Skrill and said he 
hadnt authorised  this debit. He asked Skrill to refund him, and also offer a gesture of 
goodwill for the inconvenience.
Skrill didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said that it had looked at Mr Cs account  history, login 
activity, and all related information which Mr C had provided during the investigation. Skill 
explained that if what Mr C said was true, it would mean that whoever  had carried out the 
transaction had direct  access to Mr Cs Skrill account. For that, the person would have had 
to be aware of his email  address,  account password, and the additional six-digit  
authentication number. Skrill concluded that if that was true, Mr Cs Skrill account  had been  
compromised as a result  of intent  or gross  negligence. It said its rules  about security 
practices were clear,  so it wouldnt be refunding Mr C.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint.  She looked  at Mr Cs Skrill account, which 
he used regularly. She noted  that to log into a Skrill  account, a customer  would need their 
email address and password. Sometimes a log on is challenged by Skrills anti-fraud 
provider, and an extra level of security is required.  This is a six-digit number which was set 
by the customer when the account  was opened,  which they can change  at any point. 
On 22 March 2019, Skrills anti-fraud  provider had challenged a log on. This was because  a 
different device was being used to log on. Mr Cs correct six-digit number was entered, and 
payments were then sent to two people.  Mr C hasnt  disputed these payments. After this 
point, there  were no changes to Mr Cs PIN number. On 27 March, there had been an 
attempted log on from an IP address in a different country. This was challenged by the anti-
fraud system, and the correct six-digit  number was entered.
The investigator also looked at the email address for the recipient of the money. Their 
address was very similar to three to which Mr C had previously sent genuine payments. The 
investigator didnt  think  that an unauthorised third party who obtained access to Mr Cs 
account would have transferred money to an account which  was very similar to ones which 
had previously been used for genuine payments.
So the investigator considered it was most likely  that Mr C had authorised the transactions 
himself.
Mr C wasnt satisfied. He said he was particularly  disappointed that the six-digit  code was 
key to the investigators decision, because this was a fundamental flaw in Skrills security.  
He said that it was incredible that the investigator had said it was most likely that Mr C had 
Ref: DRN27985912consented to the transaction,  because  Skrill had accepted that Mr Cs account had been 
compromised.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I note that Mr Cs partner had a similar 
issue, but as the accounts are in individual names,  I cant consider her complaint as part of 
Mr Cs complaint about the account in his sole name.
The relevant  regulations  for Mr Cs complaint are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017.  
Broadly speaking, these  say that if customers have  authorised a payment, theyll  be liable for 
it. If they havent, the bank will be liable. But the regulations also set out that customers have  
to meet  certain obligations,  primarily about  keeping their details secure.
Skrill has provided evidence to show that Mr Cs registered email address and password 
were used to log on to carry out the disputed transaction. So it was authenticated,  which  is 
the technical part of the transaction. The next stage for me to consider is whether or not Mr 
C consented to the payment, which is called authorisation.  And if he didnt,  I need  to decide 
whether or not Mr C met the requirements within the regulations about keeping information  
secure.
Mr C has told us that he believes  someone  hacked into his email account, which he said was 
all that was necessary  to access a Skrill account, and that a new PIN could  be set up without 
knowing the old one.
Skrill, however, has said that whoever carried out the disputed transaction  would have had 
to have had access  to Mr Cs email address, account password, and the extra authentication  
number. 
If someone hacked into Mr Cs email address as he believes, hed have had to have written 
down his Skrill password for the hacker to be able to access  it. And although Mr C says that 
a new PIN could be set up without  knowing  the old one, theres no record that his PIN was 
changed after the events of 22 March  which Ive set out above. Mr C carried out genuine 
transactions after that. So any hacker  didnt change the PIN before making  the disputed  
transaction, as Mr C believes.
I consider this means that either Mr C carried out the transaction  himself, or hed written his 
Skrill security  information down which meant a hacker could access it. 
I note that the recipient of the disputed transaction had an email address which was very 
similar to three other addresses to which Mr C had previously sent undisputed payments. It 
seems unlikely that a hacker would use an account similar to a genuine one.
I also note that Skrill  told us that Mr C completed  a questionnaire about his dispute, in which 
he said he used the same password for his accounts, saved passwords to his browser and 
stored his Skrill account information in his email.  When Mr C replied to our investigator,  
however, he said he hadnt written  down his Skrill account details.
In practice, it makes no difference whether Mr C carried  out the disputed transaction himself, 
or whether he failed  to keep his information  secure.  The outcome under the Regulations is 
the same. If he carried out the transaction  himself, he authorised it and is therefore liable for 
Ref: DRN27985913it. If he failed to keep his information  secure, he didnt comply  with Regulation 72. This says 
that The payment service user must take all reasonable steps to keep safe personalised 
security credentials relating to a payment. This is reflected in Skrills terms of use.
So I find that the evidence shows that either  Mr C carried out the transaction  himself, or it 
was carried out by a third party who was able to do so because  Mr C hadnt  complied  with 
the rules about  keeping  his personalised security credentials secure.  In either  case, the 
Regulations dont  require Skrill to refund Mr C.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2798591