K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) will not honour a claim he 
has made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act (1974) (section  75).
background
In October  2017, Mr G booked a hotel for himself and your wife for five days. Mr G 
paid for the booking  using his credit card.  Mr G specifically booked a room with a hot 
tub and he paid more for this. The hot tub did not work  for two days  out of the five day 
break.  Mr G complained  and the hotel  offered  him a 50% refund for the cost of the room  for 
the two days.  However when Mr G checked  out, the hotel offered a reduced discount.  Mr G 
was offered a refund of 80 euros in total. Mr G did not accept  this offer.  Mr G would  
like to be compensated  for loss of enjoyment and a refund  of the full payment for the 
two days.
Mr G complained  to Nationwide.  It considered  the offer by the hotel  was fair. 
Mr G brought  a complaint  to us to consider.  
The investigator  did not uphold  Mr Gs complaint  in part. She noted  that under S75, 
Nationwide is not liable  for loss of enjoyment. 
The investigator considered there  was a breach  of contract  by the hotel. Mr G paid 
for a room  with a hot tub, but the hot tub didn't work for two days.  However  Mr G was 
provided  with a room  and there  was no complaint  with the room  other  than the broken  
hot tub. The investigator  did not consider  it would be fair to ask Nationwide to offer a 
refund for the cost of the room  for the two days.  The investigator  considered  Mr G 
would  have  booked  a cheaper room for the two days if he knew he wouldn't  be able 
to use the hot tub for two days. 
The investigator noted that the cost difference  between a double room  and a superior 
double room with a hot tub is approximately £25 to £40 per night. If Mr G had not 
booked a room with a hot tub for those two days,  he would have paid anything  up to 
approximately £80 less for the trip. The hotel offered Mr G a refund for 80 euros.  
The investigator  considered  this offer was reasonable.  The investigator  noted  that 
Nationwide  has said it will reimburse  Mr G if the hotel  does  not pay Mr G the 80 euros  
it has offered.  
Mr G is not happy to accept the investigators recommendation. He notes the hotel did not 
respond to his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should  explain that in dealing with a complaint I do not apply the law - directly - but I do 
take it into account.  The role of the service requires me to decide this complaint on the basis  
of what I believe is fair and reasonable
When something goes wrong with a transaction it might be possible to recover the money  
paid through a section  75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 says that in 
Ref: DRN24432132certain circumstances, a finance provider can be responsible for a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation made by the supplier. 
Theres no dispute  that Mr G used his credit card to pay for the hotel booking. So the sort of 
relationship required under s75 is present. I need to consider if theres been a breach of 
contract. There is also no dispute that the hot tube did not work for two out of the five days  
Mr G and his wife stayed  in the hotel. 
While I can sympathise with Mr G I would say at the outset that I find myself in agreement  
with the investigator. As such I wont repeat  the detail set out by the investigator in his 
opinion letter.
The hotel  has offered  Mr G a reduction  in his bill of 80 euros.  I find this is fair compensation 
for the extra  amount Mr G paid for a room with a hot tub. Mr G is unhappy that the hotel has 
not responded to his written complaint. As such, he considers he should not have to ask 
them again for the refund. However I consider it fair and reasonable that Mr G tries to 
recover the 80 euros the hotel offered directly to Mr G. He has not yet accepted the offer 
from the hotel. I note the hotel did not reply  to Mr Gs written complaint.  Nationwide  has said 
that if the hotel does  not reimburse  him, it will consider paying him this sum.  Mr G can 
contact Nationwide  if he does not receive the 80 euros the hotel has offered to him. 
Mr G has also complained about his loss of employment, but Im unable to consider this 
under a section  75 claim.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Rosemary Lloyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2443213