K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005 during a meeting.  Mrs R says Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mrs R aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  I cant be sure what was said at the time Mrs R applied  for her credit  
card and PPI but Halifax has provided  a copy of the application form that was completed. 
The application form was completed with selections  made on it before it was printed. One of 
the options selected was for PPI. The form was then signed by Mrs R. I think  the selections  
made on the form are likely to have  been the result of a conversation  had between  Mrs R 
and a Halifax representative at the time.  Mrs R was also agreeing to an important financial 
commitment so I would  have expected her to read the form and have asked any questions  
she may have had before signing in agreement with it. So I think Halifax made it clear that 
Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she may not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs R so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
Mrs R has told us that she was entitled to some  sick pay when she applied for the PPI. She 
also had other insurance and could have relied  on family to help. But the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to Mrs Rs sick pay, and for longer. It would also have covered Mrs R in 
circumstances that her other insurance wouldnt have. And while  Mrs Rs family would have 
wanted to help their ability  to do so would have been  dependent on their circumstance at the 
time, which could have changed.  
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Rs circumstances  at the time,  she wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think it was right for her.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said - including  what shes  said about being 
pressured into taking  the policy. But for me to uphold  this complaint based on this I would 
need to see persuasive evidence  that this is likely to be what happened,  which  I havent  
seen. So this point  doesnt change my decision.
Ref: DRN24805232This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs R paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs R back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
If Halifax hasnt already it will make  arrangements to pay Mrs R now Ive issued  my final 
decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2480523