K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover her store  card repayments.
background
Miss B took out a store  card in 1994.  At the same time she took out a PPI policy to cover  her 
card repayments. The policy  cost £1 per £100 of the balance  on Miss Bs store card.  A 
successful claim  on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding  balance on the store 
card if Miss B was unable to work due to accident or sickness  or lost her job. The benefit 
would continue to be paid until Miss B returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Miss Bs complaint  should be upheld because  he thought the 
policy wouldve provided a useful benefit  to Miss B.
Miss B disagrees. She says it was included without any discussion  or consent. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Bs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Bs complaint.
The PPI was applied  for in store when  Miss B applied for a store  card. Theres  limited  
information available to me about  what happened  at the time of sale. Because  of this, I dont 
know what may or may not have  been  said. So I have to decide whats more likely to have 
happened based on the information Ive been  given.
Miss B says PPI was added without her consent. But Ive looked at the credit  agreement that 
she signed and I think it was clear the PPI was optional and that Miss B chose to take it.
I say this because  I can see that in the section that deals with PPI theres a tick next to the 
Yes to select PPI. Miss B says that it isnt her writing  on the form but she has signed the 
agreement for the store  card itself. I think its likely she read the credit  agreement  before she 
signed it and wouldve  seen she had the option  to accept or decline PPI. I dont think  she 
wouldve signed the agreement if she didnt want PPI. So I think  Miss B had PPI because 
she chose to take it.
I dont think FICL advised Miss B to take PPI. What  this means is that FICL  didnt 
recommend PPI to Miss B, they just gave her information about  PPI. This information 
needed to be given in a way that was clear,  fair and not misleading so she could make an 
informed choice about buying  PPI.
FICL say that sufficient  information wouldve been provided at the point of sale to allow Miss 
B to make an informed  choice on whether  to add PPI to her account. But I cant  say whether 
this information  was good enough. That being said even if FICL did give all the information  
Ref: DRN25676622Miss B needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy,  I think she wouldve still 
taken the policy because at the time of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Miss B says she was entitled to sick pay, had savings and 
couldve relied  on her family  to make her repayments  if she couldnt work. But theres  no 
guarantee her family would be able to help and a successful  claim on the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and savings. So I think  the policy  still 
wouldve provided  a useful benefit  for Miss B in her situation and I cant  see how 
knowing this information wouldve  changed her mind.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Miss B and she could cancel 
the policy  if she no longer wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Miss B on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint against Financial 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2567662