K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt properly inspect the damage  
to their roof before saying  it wouldnt  meet  a claim they made on their home insurance.
background
Both parties  know whats happened  here,  so I wont go into a lot of detail Mr and Mrs B 
reported a leak in their attic after some  stormy weather  and said also that a door had been 
blown open by the wind and damaged.
UKI received some photos of the roof, and said it didnt think the damage was caused by a 
storm. But it said that if Mr and Mrs B got their builder to take close  up photos when he did 
the repairs it would re-consider its decision.  Mr and Mrs B sent UKI some more photos, but 
UKI didnt  change its mind. It did agree to pay for the damage to the door, as it said it could 
cover that under  the accidental damage  part of the policy.
Mr and Mrs B complained, and UKI said it thought it had been reasonable. Unhappy  about 
this Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  think UKI had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs B dont  think thats 
fair, as they say UKI didnt  conduct a proper  survey before deciding not to meet the claim,  so 
it hasnt proven it wasnt storm damage. They think UKI should at least pay for part of the 
repairs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold this complaint, 
and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Bs insurance provides cover for damage caused  by unexpected, one off events, 
in this case a storm. It doesnt (like most policies)  provide cover where a roof has failed due 
to age, design or lack of maintenance.
When I look at a claim for storm damage, I consider three points. Only if all three are present
would I decide  that a claim for storm damage  should be met.
was there  a storm at the relevant time?
The weather  reports from the time Mr and Mrs B made their claim show  that there  had been 
storm conditions in the two weeks before the claim.  UKI hasnt  disputed  this point, so I need  
make no further comments on this.
is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Mr and Mrs B say UKI should have conducted an in depth survey before deciding  the 
damage wasnt due to a storm,  but more likely wear and tear. I dont think thats always  
necessary. Its often enough  to see reasonably clear photos and look at the necessary 
repairs. Thats what a UKI commissioned survey would likely  contain if one had been carried  
out.
Ref: DRN27382522The photos  Ive seen were sent in by Mr and Mrs B. Some  are from ground level,  but some  
are close-ups of the damaged part of the roof. The photos are of a valley between two roofs, 
which is normally a relatively sheltered  part of a roof. I can see debris as well as areas of 
removed tiles and it looks as though the debris is the sort of material  that collects over time.
There is a photo  of an intact roof, but I cant say if that is before or after repairs. If it was 
before, it doesnt show signs  of typical storm damage.  I should also say that if this part of the 
roof had been damaged  by the storm Id expect  there to more extensive damage  elsewhere 
on more exposed parts  but none was reported. 
was this particular  damage caused by a storm?
From the photos and the description  of the repairs need, Im not persuaded this damage  was 
likely caused  only by the storms immediately before the leak was noticed. It might be that the 
last storm exposed the problem, but its still most  likely  that the underlying cause  is damage  
that built up gradually.
Ive also considered the extent of the repairs carried  out. The description of the work, which 
included clearing the valley and replacing  battens and felt, is typical of repairs for damage 
thats built up over time. It might be that the design of the roof means this area requires more  
frequent maintenance  but that isnt something UKI can be held responsible for.
I dont think the damage was caused by a one off storm event.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 June  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2738252