K821x#15Complaint
Miss L complains that CASH ON GO LIMITED  (trading as Peachy.co.uk)  (Peachy) lent 
money to her that she couldnt afford to repay.
Background
Based on the information provided, Miss L entered into four loans  with Peachy between April 
and September  2015.
Loan Date Repaid Amount Deferrals
1 10/04/2015 21/04/2015 £200.00 0
2 21/04/2015 18/08/2015 £400.00 2
3 24/08/2015 21/09/2015 £200.00 0
4 23/09/2015 16/10/2015 £250.00 0
Miss L says that Peachy  behaved irresponsibly by providing her with extensions on loans 
and additional  loans when she says it was clear she couldnt afford the repayments.  
Peachy says that before the loans were  provided  it carried out appropriate  credit  worthiness 
and affordability checks. It says that based on the information it gathered  the loan 
repayments were affordable. It says there were no indications  at the time of the loans that 
Miss L was experiencing financial difficulties. It says the reasons given for the loans was for 
holidays / travelling or shopping and she didnt  say they were  for repaying other debts 
although this was an option.   
Our adjudicator didnt  think that he had seen  enough to say that the first two loans shouldnt  
have been provided. However he thought that loans three and four shouldnt have been  lent. 
He said that by loan three, Miss L had shown signs that she was struggling to make  her 
repayments. He said she was taking out new loans to repay previous loans. Given  this he 
thought there was a significant  risk Miss L couldnt  sustainably make her repayments on 
loans three  and four. 
Peachy didnt accept  our adjudicators view so this complaint has been  passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to consider.  
My findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss L could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN23147992But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy should  fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customer's income  (reflecting  that it could be more  difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Peachy was required to establish 
whether Miss L could  sustainably repay  her loans - not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without having 
to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought  fairly 
and reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  
sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had seen enough  to say that the first two loans (including 
deferments) shouldnt have been  provided. I agree with this.
By the time loan three was provided,  Miss L had deferred her previous loan twice. She had 
taken out new loans shortly after repaying her previous loans.  Therefore  I think it would have 
been reasonable that Peachy would have been concerned that Miss L was struggling to 
manage her money. Given this I think there  was a significant risk that Miss L wouldnt be 
able to sustainably  repay her loans. Therefore I dont  think  it was reasonable that loans three 
and four were  provided.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  three and four. 
CASH ON GO LIMITED should:
A.add together the total of the repayments  made  by Miss L towards interest,  fees and 
charges on these loans,  including  payments made to a third party  where applicable, but 
not including anything that has already been  refunded.
B.calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments made by Miss L which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss L originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint  is settled.
Ref: DRN23147993C.pay Miss L the total of "A" plus "B".
D.remove any adverse information recorded on Miss L's credit file in relation to loan three 
and four. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires CASH  ON GO LIMITED to deduct tax from this interest.  It 
should give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2314799