K820x#14complaint and background 
Mr W has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) (trading as First Direct) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to go with a loan he took out to buy some furniture in 
1997. The loan was settled in August 2000.  To keep  things simple I refer to HSBC in my decision.
HSBC says that whilst it was the finance provider it isnt responsible for the PPI sale. It says that a 
third party (the Broker)  sold the loan and PPI to Mr W.
Our adjudicator considered the question of who was responsible  for this complaint and 
concluded that HSBC did not sell the PPI and so was not responsible  for answering the 
complaint. 
Mr W wasnt happy with our adjudicators  view,  and said that even though  he bought the PPI 
and loan from the Broker  as all monies were paid to HSBC  it is responsible for answering 
any complaint. He says,  amongst other things, that the Broker  was acting as HSBCs  agent 
and has asked for an ombudsmans decision on his complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 21 February 2019, which  is attached and 
forms part of my decision.
Since issuing my provisional  decision, Mr W and HSBC have confirmed that they have 
received my provisional  decision. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We have set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and I have taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Ws case.
In response to my provisional decision Mr W has made several  submissions. I have 
considered these carefully and taken them into account before coming to my final decision. I 
note Mr W does not accept my provisional  decision and Mr W maintains his argument  
(amongst others) that the Broker was acting as HSBCs agent. But Mr W has not presented 
anything materially new for me to consider  and I dont see any reason to go behind my 
findings in my provisional decision. So, Im not satisfied that HSBC sold the PPI to Mr W and 
I dont find that it was responsible for making sure the PPI sale happened as it shouldve. So 
Im not upholding this PPI mis-sale complaint against HSBC. Im sorry to disappoint Mr W.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and those  in my provisional decision, Im not satisfied HSBC UK 
Bank Plc is responsible for the sale of PPI to Mr W. So Im not upholding Mr Ws mis-sale 
complaint against  it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Marie Lewiecki
Ref: DRN20746842Ombudsman
Ref: DRN20746843copy  of provisional findings
This decision is issued by me, Marie Lewiecki,  an ombudsman with the Financial Ombudsman Service.  It 
sets out my provisional conclusions on the dispute between Mr W and HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) (trading  
as First Direct). To keep  things  simple  I refer to HSBC in my decision.  
Ill look at any more  comments and evidence  that I get by 21 March  2019.  But unless the information 
changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines. 
complaint and background
Mr W has complained that HSBC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy to go with a 
loan he took out to buy some furniture  in 1997. The loan was settled  in August 2000.  
HSBC says that whilst it was the finance provider  it isnt responsible for the PPI sale.  It says that third party 
(the Broker) sold the loan and PPI to Mr W.
Our adjudicator considered  the question of who was responsible for this complaint and concluded that 
HSBC did not sell the PPI and was not responsible for answering the complaint.  
Mr W wasnt happy with our adjudicators  view,  and said that even though he bought  the PPI and loan 
from the Broker as all monies were paid to HSBC  it is responsible for answering  any complaint. He 
says, amongst other things, that the Broker  was acting as HSBCs agent  and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision on his complaint.
 
my provisional  findings
As Ive explained, Mr Ws complaint is about this PPI policy being  mis-sold. But the business hes brought  his 
complaint against, HSBC, says it didnt sell the policy  to him  so it isnt responsible for anything that 
mightve gone  wrong with the sale.  It says that a Broker sold the policy when Mr W took out a loan with it to 
buy some  furniture  so it, not HSBC,  is responsible  for now addressing this complaint.
With this in mind, Ive thought carefully  about  all of the available evidence to decide  who sold Mr Ws policy. 
Taking all the evidence  and submissions into account,  including the documentation  from the time of sale  
Im minded to conclude  that HSBC didnt  sell this PPI to Mr W. I say this for the following reasons:
Mr W and HSBC  agree that the loan and PPI were  sold to Mr W instore at the same time that Mr W 
was buying some  furniture. 
I have  seen a copy of the Credit Agreement signed  by Mr W. Its on HSBC headed paper,  but that 
does not automatically mean that HSBC arranged the mortgage or the PPI  it simply  confirms that it 
was the finance provider. 
Ive looked at the evidence provided, including  the credit  agreement. I can see on the application 
form that the PPI was selected at the same time as applying for the loan. And having  considered all 
the evidence, Im satisfied that Mr W purchased the PPI after speaking with the Broker in store.  I can 
also see on the credit  agreement that there is a branch stamp  from the Broker near the end of the 
application form. 
HSBC has explained that it didnt sell the PPI and the Broker wasnt acting on its behalf when it sold 
the PPI. Mr W says that the Broker  was acting as an agent of HSBC  when it sold the PPI. However,  
having carefully  considered the evidence  I have not seen any evidence  to make me think that the 
Broker was acting on HSBCs behalf or that there was an agency relationship  between HSBC and 
the Broker.
Ref: DRN20746844I have  taken all Mr Ws other points into account before reaching my conclusion but they do not 
affect my decision.
As Im not currently satisfied that HSBC  sold the PPI, it wasnt responsible  for making sure the sale 
happened as it shouldve. So Im intending not to uphold  this complaint against HSBC.  Im sorry  to 
disappoint Mr W.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional  decision  is that Im not satisfied Mr Ws policy was sold by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc. So Im not intending  to uphold  Mr Ws mis-sale complaint against it.
Ill look at any further comments  or evidence I receive from either  party before 21 March 2019.
Marie Lewiecki
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2074684