K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about Zurich Assurance  Ltd (Zurich). Hes unhappy Zurich wouldnt allow 
him to keep  his pension  funds invested  after his 75th birthday.
background
Mr C has two Zurich Growth Retirement Plans. Zurich wrote  to Mr C on 17 September 2018. 
In summary  it said:
Mr Cs 75th birthday  was fast approaching, and it was time to decide  what he wanted 
to do with his plans
Mr C had several options, one of which  was to leave his plans invested
if Mr C was still planning to retire on his 75th birthday  and knew  which  option  hed like 
to choose he should call it so it could help start the process
if it didnt hear from Mr C before  23 February  2019 it would assume  hed decided  to 
delay taking benefits from his pension plans
On 20 October 2018 Mr C appointed a financial adviser to act on his behalf.  Further to 
Zurichs 17 September 2018  letter, Mr Cs adviser  called Zurich  on 19 November  2018.  He 
queried whether  Mr C would be able to keep his plans invested beyond his 75th birthday 
given that taking an annuity  or transferring to another provider werent options that worked 
for him. Zurich confirmed  at the time that keeping his plans invested  beyond his 75th birthday 
was an option  available  to Mr C. Mr Cs IFA said this was probably  what  Mr C would choose 
to do at age 75.
On 18 December 2018 Zurich wrote to Mr C twice regarding  his plans and repeated  the 
contents of its 17 September 2018 letters.
On 2 January  2019 Zurich made the decision to withdraw the option for plan holders to keep  
their funds invested beyond their 75th birthday. 
Mr C turned age 75 on 23 February 2019. A call took place between Zurich  and Mr C on 
28 February 2019. During this call Mr C confirmed  he wanted to leave his plans invested. 
Zurich explained  this was no longer an option.  When Mr C advised  hed never  been  made  
aware of this, Zurich  said its revised position  had been outlined  in its letters of 18 December 
2018.
On 1 March 2019 Mr C wrote to Zurich confirming he wanted  it to act in accordance  with any 
instructions previously given by him via his financial adviser. He later wrote to it again  and 
confirmed that further to its letter  of 17 September 2018 and subsequent conversations he 
didnt want to take retirement benefits  and wished to keep his plans invested. 
Zurich wrote to Mr C on 25 March 2019  confirming that as it had previously written to him, 
although his plans werent designed  for retirement  after age 75, it would allow  the plan to 
remain invested. Zurich  went  on to say it had since changed its position on the matter and 
no longer offered this option.  It confirmed  that as Mr C was over 75 years old, hed need to 
choose which retirement option to take. Zurichs letter enclosed information about  Mr Cs 
retirement options as well as an overall summary  of his plan. The letter confirmed the 
following regarding next steps:
Mr C should let it know as soon as possible which retirement option he wanted  
Ref: DRN25357762if it hadnt heard from Mr C approximately four weeks before 25 June 2019 it would 
provide Mr C with standard Zurich annuity quotes
if Mr C contacted it before 25 June  2019 and wanted to choose  annuities itd put him 
in touch and independent annuity service to help him find one
if it didnt hear from Mr C his plans would end on 25 June 2019 and Zurich  would use 
their value  to set up annuities
if Mr C contacted it before 25 June  2019 he wouldnt have  to purchase annuities and 
could choose  a different retirement  option
Zurich wrote to Mr C on 24 May 2019. It said it had already written to him explaining his 
plans would end on 25 June 2019 and that itd set up annuities if he didnt claim his benefits 
before then. Again, Zurich enclosed further  information about Mr Cs retirement  options  and 
said its letter  was its final reminder.  It stressed  the importance of Mr C contacting it urgently 
if he didnt want default Zurich annuities and wanted a different  retirement  option.  
Mr C later complained and referred his concerns to our service.
Zurich sent its final response to Mr Cs complaint on 17 June 2019. In summary  it said:
up to and including 17 December 2017 its process was that for plans like Mr Cs, a 
default annuity would be set up of a customer didnt make a claim before their 75th 
birthday. This was because the terms and conditions of the plans confirmed the plans 
would end when  a customer reached age 75
from 18 December 2017  a propositional change took place, allowing customers to 
remain invested past age 75 until the date they made a choice about their retirement 
and the option they wished to choose
since 2 January 2019 Zurich had withdrawn the option for customers  to leave their 
funds invested  after age 75. Letters were sent to Mr C confirming hed need to make  
a choice of claim option by age 75 and that a default annuity would be set up if no 
decision was made by 25 June 2019
it was sorry its letters  dated 17 September 2018  confirmed he could leave the funds 
in his plans invested.  These letters were based on its procedure  which  took effect 
from 18 December 2017. This changed  from 2 January 2019 and was a business 
decision
it didnt uphold his complaint
it would  set up Zurich  annuities for Mr C if no alternative option was chosen. But 
given how long it had taken to respond  to Mr Cs complaint it would extend the 
response date for his confirmation of retirement choice from 25 June 2019  to 
9 July 2019 so he could consider his options
the value of Mr Cs plan ending AK was £32,540.30. The value of his plan ending  CK 
was £27,813.17
One of our investigators  later considered the matter  and in summary said she didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld.  She said Zurich had exercised its right to change the options 
made available to its customers, in line with Mr Cs plans applicable terms and conditions. 
She didnt  think Zurich had done  anything wrong in deciding  not to allow  its customers to 
keep their funds invested beyond  age 75. 
Mr C responded to our investigator and disagreed. In summary  he said:
Ref: DRN25357763his complaint was based on the letters Zurich sent him on 17 September  2018 and 
his instructions provided to Zurich in November  2018
he was diagnosed with cancer in 2013 and following this he decided that purchasing  
an annuity wasnt a good decision
Zurichs September 2018 letters outlined the options available and his financial 
adviser rang Zurich  on 19 November  2018 in his presence to confirm  he wanted to 
keep his plans  invested 
Zurichs 18 December 2018 letters didnt say his plans had to be withdrawn or 
annuities purchased. Neither  did they say the option of keeping his plans invested  
had been removed
he felt the options  outlined  in Zurichs  17 September 2018 letters stood
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while  Ive 
taken note of all the arguments  made by both parties (and considered  them in their entirety), 
I have limited my response  to the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to 
say:
whether Zurich was entitled to withdraw the option for Mr C keep his plans invested 
beyond his 75th birthday
whether Zurich made Mr C sufficiently  aware  of its decision to withdraw the option for 
him to keep his plans  invested beyond his 75th birthday
whether the action  Zurich has since taken with Mr Cs plans is reasonable in the 
circumstances
Changes to government  legislation  in 2015  allowed pension plan holders more flexibility with 
their pensions. As part of this pension providers like Zurich could choose to allow  its plan 
holders to keep  their pension funds invested beyond age 75. Providing this option wasnt 
something Zurich was obliged to do. It took the decision to allow this. And as such  Zurich 
chose to relax its original position  and process  that where pension benefits werent taken by 
a plan holder by age 75 a default annuity would be set up. 
Zurichs decision  to allow plan holders to keep their funds  invested beyond their 75th birthday  
didnt replace the original terms and conditions applicable to Mr Cs plans. So Zurich  was 
always entitled to review its position, withdraw  the option to keep funds invested beyond age 
75 and reintroduce its default annuity  process where benefits werent taken by age 75.
The original  terms and conditions applicable to Mr Cs plans  said:
() should there be any change in circumstances which in the opinion of the Actuary 
renders it impracticable or impossible to give full effect to the provisions hereof, the 
provisions of the plan and the benefits  conferred thereby may be varied  by the Company in 
such manner as the Actuary  deems appropriate to enable  these  provisions to take effect as 
nearly as possible.
Ref: DRN25357764As Zurich explained, because  its plans were never designed to continue beyond  age 75, it 
decided that allowing this was no longer a viable approach.  Zurichs  decision in this respect 
was a legitimate  exercise of its commercial decision.  So Im not persuaded Zurich acted 
unfairly when it chose to withdraw the option  for Mr C to keep his plans invested beyond  his 
75th birthday. 
Zurich decided that from 2 January 2019 its customers  would no longer be permitted to 
leave their funds invested  beyond  age 75. Mr C wasnt due to turn age 75 until 23 February  
2019. So by the time he reached age 75, keeping his plans invested was no longer an 
available option.  Mr C had to choose a claim option  within a certain period of time or default 
annuities would be set up. 
Mr C has said that further to Zurichs 17 September 2018 letter  (which  provided the option 
for him to keep his funds invested beyond age 75), his financial adviser called Zurich on his 
behalf on 19 November  2018 confirming that he wished  keep  his pension funds invested 
after age 75. Mr C says he doesnt therefore understand why Zurich wouldnt then allow  him 
to keep his funds invested beyond  his 75th birthday. 
Ive listened to the call Mr Cs financial adviser  had with Zurich and note that Mr Cs financial 
adviser did say it as probably Mr Cs intention  to keep his plans invested beyond his 75th 
birthday. Zurich also confirmed this was an option.  At the time this was correct  information. 
However this call took place prior to the change Zurich introduced from 2 January 2019 
which meant its customers  could no longer leave their funds invested  beyond age 75. So 
while Mr Cs financial  adviser said Mr C was likely to be interested in this option at age 75 
and Zurich said it was available, this was the case at that time. However Mr C wasnt  75 at 
the time so taking  a decision about what to do with his plans (i.e. remaining invested beyond  
age 75) wasnt an option at that stage. The contents  of Mr Cs financial advisers call with 
Zurich didnt constitute any instruction or agreement  regarding what exact  options  would be 
available to Mr C when  he turned 75 or what hed choose to do based on the available  
options.
As Mr C neared his 75th birthday, Zurich sent letters to him on 18 December 2018. These 
letters like Zurichs  17 September 2018 letters outlined what Mr Cs options were  with his 
plans when he turned  75. Included was the option for Mr C to keep his plans where they 
were. I can appreciate why Mr C assumed this same  option would be available on his 75th 
birthday a little over two months later.  However,  as Ive already said, it wasnt until January 
2019 Zurich withdrew  this option. And this is why the option was included in Zurichs 
December 2018  letters. Zurich has confirmed these letters were automatically  generated.
At the time Zurich chose  to withdraw  the option  for consumers  to keep their funds invested 
beyond age 75, its process  was to send reminder letters to consumers 8-10 weeks before 
their 75th birthday.  These letters outlined consumers options and were revised to show that 
leaving funds invested post 75 was no longer an option. Unfortunately  because of the timing  
in Mr Cs case he wasnt included in this mailing.  Mr C didnt respond to Zurichs December 
2018 letters  by the 23 February 2019  deadline so it was assumed (as Zurichs letters said it 
would) that hed decided  to delay taking benefits from his plans.
It wasnt until the telephone call which took place  between  Mr C and Zurich  on 28 February  
2019 that Mr C advised  Zurich he wanted to keep his plans invested. And Zurich 
subsequently told him this wasnt  an option.  Having listened to this call, its clear there was 
some confusion. Mr C was under the impression  keeping his plan invested  was an option 
available to him. And the Zurich representative  he spoke to appeared to think  Mr C had been 
Ref: DRN25357765written to confirming this option was no longer available.  This was unfortunate and I can 
appreciate the frustration  caused to Mr C by this. The Zurich representative reasonably 
assumed one of Zurichs automatically  generated letters with the updated position had been  
sent to Mr C. But as Ive already explained this wasnt the case.
Nevertheless, Zurichs position  on funds remaining invested beyond  age 75 was ultimately  
made clear during  the February 2019 call. And while disappointing,  I cant say Zurich did 
anything wrong  in this respect. The option  to keep funds  invested  beyond age 75 was 
withdrawn in January  2019 and Mr C was advised as such. 
Im mindful that given  Mr Cs genuine  belief hed already  given Zurich  instruction that he 
wanted his plans remain invested  after he reached  age 75, he continued to correspond with 
Zurich on the assumption it had made  a mistake  saying this was no longer an option 
available to him. I think this is understandable  given the circumstances. 
On 25 March 2019 Zurich wrote  to Mr C reiterating  its position  on the matter and advising 
him what his various options were. Zurich asked  Mr C to let it know what option hed like to 
choose and said that if it didnt hear from him his plans would end 25 June 2019 and that the 
values would be used  to set up default  Zurich annuities for him. Having received no 
response from Mr C, Zurich wrote to him again  on 24 May 2019. The reminder letter was 
headed:
Time is running  out to make a retirement choice
Zurichs letter went on to say:
we wrote to you a few weeks  ago explaining your plan will end on 25 June 2019 and well 
set up a guaranteed income  for life (Zurich annuity) if you dont claim  benefits  before then. 
This letter and the enclosures provide the information required to begin this process 
so its very important  you contact urgently  if you want to choose a different retirement 
option. This is a final reminder  of your  other retirement options and is the last time 
well contact you about  this.
Please remember the decision about  how to access your pension plan is an extremely  
important one, and will have lasting  consequences  for your retirement ()
This is an important decision and it is a good idea to discuss  it with a financial adviser.  They 
will be able to help you decide which  option is right for you ()
From the available evidence I cannot  see that Zurich couldve been  any clearer  about the 
deadline for Mr C to confirm what retirement  option he wished to take (based on those 
available to him) or about the fact that Zurich would set up default annuities  for Mr C if he 
didnt respond.  
Although there was some initial confusion back in February 2019, I think the position was 
made sufficiently clear after this, so there  was no lingering ambiguity about what  Mr Cs 
options were or the consequences of him not responding to Zurichs  March and May 2019 
letters. I also note that Zurich reiterated  its position  in the final response letter it issued to 
Mr C on 17 June 2019. In this letter Zurich agreed  (given the time it took to respond  to his 
complaint) to provide  Mr C with additional time to consider his options and extend  the 
Ref: DRN25357766deadline for his response to 9 July 2015. I think this was a fair and reasonable concession 
for Zurich to make in the circumstances.
As Mr C didnt  contact Zurich in response  to its May or June 2019 letters and given the 
9 July 2019 extended deadline passing, default annuities  were set up for Mr Cs plans  in 
July 2019. I dont think this was inappropriate  or unfair action  for Zurich to take in the 
circumstances. Particularly  given the reminders and warnings it provided Mr C with.
In his submissions to this service Mr C has said he feels he should be allowed to transfer his 
funds to another company. Despite  my sympathy for Mr C, especially considering his ill 
health, Im unable to agree. Mr C was given sufficient opportunity  to seek financial advice 
and decide what  he wanted to do with his plans (including transferring to another provider) 
before his annuities  were  set up. Unfortunately this opportunity has now passed. And as 
such there are no reasonable grounds  upon  which I can direct Zurich to do as he wishes.  
Once an annuity is set up a provider  is under no obligation to unwind it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2535776