K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Leeds Building Society (Leeds) mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI) in 2004  and 2006.
background
This complaint was about a regular  premium PPI policy  taken out with a mortgage in 2004  
and then amended in 2006. Our adjudicator  upheld  the sale of the PPI to Mrs P in 2004  and 
Leeds accepted our adjudicators findings and made an offer. 
As Leeds didnt  accept  the findings in relation to Mr P and the 2006  policy  amendment, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
My decision  only deals  with the amendment of the policy  in 2006.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps 2006 complaint because:
Leeds recommended  the policy to Mr P but I dont think  it was right for him. I say this 
because at the point of taking  this policy out, Mr P was around  63 years  old. The cover 
provided under this policy  ended when Mr P was 65. So in this particular case,  in my 
opinion, I dont  think that Mr P would  have been  able to get very much benefit from the 
policy as he wouldnt have been  covered for very long before he turned 65. 
I dont think Mr P wouldve  bought  the policy if Leeds had made clear it wasnt right for him 
and given him enough information about  it. So, I think Mr P has lost out because of what 
Leeds did wrong. 
Ive taken into account all of Leeds comments,  but I still think  I should uphold the complaint.
putting things right
Leeds should put Mr and Mrs P in the position theyd be in now if the policy hadnt been sold 
to Mr P in 2006. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and 
Leeds should:
Pay Mr and Mrs P the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Leeds can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
Ref: DRN20889672 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Leeds  to take off tax from this interest. Leeds must  give 
Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
If Leeds has already  repaid any commission amount to Mr and Mrs P that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by Leeds from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Leeds Building Society should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2088967