K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited rejected his claim under Section  
75 Consumer Credit  Act 1974 in respect  of a holiday club.
Background
Mr S and his wife took out trial membership of a holiday  club,  which I will call C, in December 
2016. This cost £3,995 and was funded  by a conditional sale agreement  with Clydesdale.  It 
offered up to five weeks accommodation over the following 36 months. The documentation  
shows the maximum number of people at any one time was six. 
Mr S complained to Clydesdale. He said they had only been  able to take one holiday.  They  
werent able to find vacancies at the times that suited them  and had been told it would be 
easier if they chose  less popular times such as those which  avoided  school holidays. They 
also said they had not been  able to secure  accommodation for seven  people.  They  said that 
they had to use a premium rate phone  number to contact C.
Clydesdale rejected their complaint. It said they had signed an agreement which made  it 
clear the maximum number of persons on any one holiday  was six. It spoke to C regarding 
availability and it said that it tried to secure  the first choice of its members,  but availability 
was affected by a number  of factors. These  included the time of the year, popularity of the 
resort and size of accommodation required. It added that the premium rate number was for a 
separate company and C was contactable  via email.
Mr S brought this complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
Clydesdale said Mr S had notified it that he had lost his job in January 2017 and he was 
looking to cancel the agreement as he wasnt happy with the product. In January 2018 he 
cancelled his direct  debit. It says it offered to set up a payment plan, but he complained that 
he had been unable to book a holiday  during  half term.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the paperwork he completed at the time of purchase.  He noted Mr 
S had signed and dated next to statements which set out that the product was subject to 
availability, had a 14-day cooling off period after which it would run for three years and that 
the product should not be viewed as a financial investment. It also showed the maximum 
occupancy would be for up to six people.
He couldnt see that Mr S and his wife had been  told the resorts were exclusive. He 
explained that he could not say with any certainty  what had been said by the sales  rep and 
Mr S had not been able to recall in any detail. However, he had noted the sales aids and 
training used by C which  gave  some  insight into what would have happened during the sales  
pitch.
He thought these aids highlighted an imbalance in information, favouring the emotional and 
tangible benefits  they would receive if they became members and limited information  on how 
the trial product functioned. Our adjudicator could appreciate why Mr S might  have  been  
slightly unclear about  the product he was were buying. However, crucially, these aides did 
not use the statements or descriptors Mr S had referred to.
He said he had seen  no evidence to show the product was described as having
unlimited availability, or that it was exclusive to members or that a particular standard  of
Ref: DRN25388562finish or quality would be provided. Instead,  the information seems  to suggest members
would have to book in advance and holidays  would  be subject to availability. 
Overall, he thought the sales  process  was constructed  to focus  on the benefits the product 
would provide and how this would  enable a consumer to enhance the way they travelled. 
Our adjudicator thought it could have  been  more balanced, but he didnt consider this 
amounted to misrepresentation.
He also considered section 140A Consumer Credit  Act and whether the loan and sale 
were brought about by selling methods on the part of C that were  unfair  or misleading.
Having done so, he thought it unlikely a court would conclude that Cs actions  as an
agent of the bank generated an unfair  debtor  creditor  relationship. 
Overall, he concluded  there was no basis for upholding the complaint. Mrs S responded and 
said they didnt  agree. She said his complaint had not been investigated properly.  She said 
C had given fake information and they had sent several emails which explained  what  had 
happened. The cooling  off period was short and they didnt realise that they had been 
misled. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr S, but I do not consider I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The bank has said it does  not agree a claim should be made under section 75, as there is
not enough evidence to show C was in breach of contract or misrepresented the holiday club 
offer.
The debtor-creditor-supplier chain is in place so it falls to me to consider if there  has been 
either a breach of contract or misrepresentation. I have reviewed the contract signed by Mr S 
and it appears that C has not breached it. It imposed a limit of six person per holiday and 
although Mr S wished to take seven people C did not agree to allow  this to happen. 
I can see no reference to exclusivity  at the resorts  and indeed Mr S purchased a trial 
package and that of itself indicates that they were open to more  than just holiday club 
members. Nor did C guarantee availability I have noted his email exchanges with C and his 
desire to have a holiday  at Christmas. Regrettably  nothing was available  but I would imagine 
this was a peak period and a busy time. 
Ref: DRN25388563I have noted C did provide  details of the best times for availability of holidays throughout the 
year and I can see that there would be periods when getting away  would be difficult. It did 
offer Mr S a resort to which the family  had been before, but he didnt wish to make use of 
that. I can appreciate  why he didnt want to return and wanted to try another  resort. 
However, I cannot say that there  has been  a breach of contract.
On the issue of misrepresentation this depends on whether the sales rep gave factually 
inaccurate information which caused  Mr S to enter into the contract. As our adjudicator  has 
said we were not present at the event and cannot say what was said. While a positive gloss 
may have  been  given  of the product, I have to be satisfied that it was factually inaccurate if I 
am to be able to uphold  the complaint. Given Mr S initialled various elements of the contract 
to say he had been given  the relevant information  it is difficult to conclude  he was misled.
While I can imagine he and his wife were given a hard sales pitch  I gather it was open  to 
them to stop at any time and to leave. It was also open to them to reject  the offer if they had 
any doubts, or to defer a decision. Quite  simply I do not have  sufficient evidence  to say there 
was misrepresentation.  I would add that I have  examined all the evidence submitted by Mr S 
including the emails.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 22 May 2021.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2538856