K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as 
the insurer, should accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill 
refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card which Mrs A took out in 1996. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs A disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mrs A has said she didnt  knowingly take out PPI and was mis-sold  it by a customer service 
representative in store. Shes said if she knew she had a choice she wouldnt have taken it. 
FICL has provided a copy of the card application Mrs A signed for her store  card. Theres  a 
section titled Protection for your payments and purchase cover  which  also details  what 
the cover  is for. I can see that the Yes box provided to confirm  that PPI was required has 
been ticked. And there is nothing here to indicate that she had to tick in this section  so I 
think Mrs A wouldve known  she couldve left this section blank if she didnt want the PPI. 
Mrs A has said PPI wasnt explained.  I dont know what was discussed at the time but as 
Mrs A was agreeing to additional  credit, I would  have expected her to have read the form 
and raised any questions she had at the time before signing in agreement  with it.
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely  Mrs A knew  at the time 
that the PPI was optional  and that she decided to take it. But I can understand why she 
might not recall this now, as the sale took place over 20 years  ago.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs A so it didnt need to check  that it was suitable, 
given her circumstances at the time. But it did need  to ensure that she was given enough  
information to decide whether she wanted  to take it. Although I dont know what was said 
to her then,  I think its likely that the information she received about the PPI could have 
been better than it was. But I dont  think better  information would have  changed her mind 
about taking the cover and Ill explain why. 
Mrs A appears to have been  eligible  for the policy and not affected by any of its main  
exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN21554332Mrs A says the PPI was of no use to her because she had sufficient  employee  sick pay at 
the time and her family  could have helped her if she needed it. However, for no more than 
£1.00 per £100  of the outstanding monthly balance  the PPI wouldve paid out up to 15% of 
Mrs As outstanding monthly  balance, until she returned to work or the outstanding balance 
had been paid off. This wouldve paid out in addition to her sick pay. It also wouldve paid out 
in addition to her savings  so these funds couldve been used for other expenses in the 
event she was suddenly  unable to work. So I think she would have valued the extra  security  
which the policy gave  her if things went wrong. Whilst I appreciate that Mrs As family would 
have wanted to help,  their support cant be relied  upon as their circumstances can also 
change, meaning  they are unable to provide such financial assistance.
Ive no reason to think  the policy was unaffordable  for Mrs A. And as the policys  
premiums were paid monthly,  she could  have cancelled it if it no longer  met her needs.
Ive thought about everything Mrs A has said, but this hasnt changed  my mind  about not 
upholding her complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Financial Insurance
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2155433