K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling  of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes their agents.
background
Mr Hs car was stolen at the end of October 2018.  He claimed  on his Admiral  car insurance 
policy. Admiral  said they would pay the claim  on the basis that Mr Hs cars  value  at the time 
it was stolen was £37,600.
Mr H disagreed saying  his car was worth at least £43,500. He complained but Admiral didnt 
uphold it. Mr H brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators  looked into it. 
He felt that Admirals  valuation of the car wasnt reasonable. He suggested the valuation 
should be increased to £38,358 and Admiral should  add 8% interest to that. As neither Mr H 
nor Admiral  agreed with our investigator, the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 22 January 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr Hs policy  says that if his car suffers a loss (including being  stolen),  Admiral  must 
pay him the market  value  of it at the time of the loss. I feel that the starting  point 
when trying to establish the market value of a car is to look at the industry  trade 
guides, and that is what Admiral  did, as I would expect. The guides are based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices, not actual selling prices  as 
suggested by Admiral. 
The three trade guides Admiral looked at gave valuations  of £31,255 (guide 1), 
£36,500 (guide  2) and £37,600  (guide  3) respectively. When offering to pay his claim 
Admiral offered Mr H the highest of the three  guides they considered.  I should  say 
that when our investigator checked  the guides  the third one valued  the car at 
£37,650. But our investigator also took into consideration  a fourth guide that gave a 
valuation of £40,925 (guide 4).
Often where one guide is significantly out (or different  to) the others the accepted  
practice is to disregard it. Clearly guides  2 and 3 are closest to each  other with just 
over £1,000 difference (using the figure obtained  by our investigator for guide  3). 
Guide 1 is significantly out with guides  2 and 3 as its over £5,000 below guide 2. So, 
that can in my view be disregarded. Guide 4 is around £3,500 more than guide  3 and 
Admiral have said it should be disregarded  for being significantly out with guides 2 
and 3. 
As can be seen from the figures, the guides  rarely give identical valuations  for cars. 
So, in order to find out a fair market value it is common practice in the industry to find 
the average of the values. That is what our investigator did with guides  2, 3 and 4 in 
order to reach the value  of £38,358  which he suggested Admiral  should pay Mr H. 
Ref: DRN27393312But as Admiral said, valuing a car isnt an exact science. And while  the guides are 
the starting point and our service does tend to follow them,  there are occasions 
where we think a departure from the guides  is reasonable.  After  all, as their name  
suggests guides are for guidance. We also look at any other  evidence  that is 
available.
When considering  what a fair market value of a car is, we assess the market value as 
the retail price which the consumer would have had to pay for a comparable vehicle 
at a reputable  dealer. And we find that advertised prices at car dealerships  tend to be 
inflated to allow for negotiation and often to allow a dealer to offer a discount to 
secure a sale. So the advertised price of a car rarely is its true market value or the 
price it sold for. 
Mr H has provided a very large  number of adverts  (around 30) for cars he said are 
similar to his which were on sale in November  2018, shortly after his car was stolen. 
He said those adverts show that for him to be able to buy a car comparable  to his, he 
would have to pay over £43,000. I have looked at each of those  adverts carefully. I 
have found that a large number arent comparable for various reasons: some are 
modified; some are advertised for sale by private  sellers; some are a year younger  
than Mr Hs car; and some have much  higher or lower mileage than his car. All of 
which do have a significant impact on the value of a car.
From the adverts he has provided, I think there are three that are most comparable to 
his. Those  are cars listed at 2, 4 and 6 on the list Mr H provided.  They  are the same 
make, model, year, condition and also advertised for sale by car dealerships. Two of 
those cars were advertised  for £42,995  and the other for £41,985. I should say that 
all three of those cars had higher  mileage than Mr Hs car. Mr Hs car had around 
36,000 whereas of the three cars Ive mentioned two had 45,000 miles and the other 
had 42,000. Lower mileage does tend to add to a cars value.
The average of the three cars which I think are most  comparable  to Mr Hs car give 
an average advertised price of £42,658.  The highest guide  valuation is £40,925 
(guide 4). As Ive said above, advertised prices  tend to be inflated to allow  for 
negotiation. And Mr H told us that he had spoken to three dealerships  and asked for 
a reduction in price  on cars they were advertising.  He said only one offered a 
discount of £1,000. I therefore think to be able to buy a car comparable  to his, using 
the figures of the three cars I think are most  comparable to Mr Hs, he would have to 
secure a discount  of around £1,700 to be able to buy a car at guide 4s valuation.
I therefore think that given the circumstances of this case and having taken into 
consideration all the available  evidence,  it is an occasion where it would be 
reasonable to depart  from the usual practice of averaging the valuations  of the 
guides closest together. I therefore think the valuation given by guide  4 is the most 
reasonable. So I intend to uphold this complaint.
I therefore intend to ask Admiral to pay Mr H to settle his claim on the basis of his car 
being valued at £40,925. I understand that there is a policy excess Mr H would have 
to pay. So, Admiral can deduct the excess from the settlement. I also intend  to 
require Admiral to pay Mr H simple interest on the settlement figure at 8% a year 
from the date of his claim until the date he is paid. I have seen correspondence 
where Admiral said they would make an interim payment to Mr H on the basis  of the 
valuation being  £37,600. If such an interim payment was made the interest to be paid 
Ref: DRN27393313should only be on the difference between the interim  payment and the final 
settlement based  on the figures  Ive outlined. 
Given this matter has been a source of distress and inconvenience to Mr H, I also 
intend to require Admiral to pay him £200 compensation to address that.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr H accepted  my provisional findings.  
Admiral didnt comment.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance  
Company Limited  to:
Pay Mr Hs claim on the basis his cars pre-loss market value is £40,925.
Pay Mr H simple interest at 8% on the settlement figure, or the difference between  
any interim payment  and the figure Ive proposed, as explained above.1
Pay Mr H £200 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mr H has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.  
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mr H how much they have taken off. They should also give him a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN2739331