K820x#14complaint
Mr Ns complaint is about payment protection insurance he says he was sold when he took 
out credit  cards with HSBC UK Bank Plc.
HSBC has paid Mr N compensation for the mis-sale of a PPI policy  with a credit card.
Mr N believes  he was mis-sold other  PPI policies  with other credit cards he held with HSBC.
In this decision I am only looking at Mr Ns complaint about PPI sold with credit cards.       
And specifically with the credit card numbers and account numbers that have been shown to 
me by Mr Ns representative.
Mr N says he was also sold PPI with loans, but that complaint is being looked  at under a 
separate reference number.
And if Mr N identifies other  credit  card account or card numbers not mentioned in this 
decision he will need to contact HSBC  in the first instance.
background
Mr N complained to HSBC about PPI sold to him with loans and credit cards.
In September  2017 HSBC wrote to Mr N. It said it had found that Mr N was sold PPI policies 
with a loan and with a credit card ending 5698.  HSBC offered and paid Mr N £6,214.43  
compensation for the PPI sold with the credit  card.
Mr N replied to HSBC  to say he had been  sold PPI with other accounts. HSBC responded in 
March 2018 to say it had investigated all the credit cards  that had PPI attached  to them.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr N asked us to step in.
Mr N wrote in his complaint form to this service that his complaint related to 17 different 
accounts that he believed he had been  sold PPI alongside.
Mr Ns representative sent us 39 pages  of printed data obtained  from HSBC  using a Subject 
Access Report (SAR).
Mr N also sent us a spreadsheet or schedule of claims which included 18 entries        
cross-referenced to the 39 pages  of data from HSBC. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. They thought  the offer for the 
credit card ending 5698 was fair. HSBC had refunded the PPI premiums paid by Mr N, 
together with any credit  card interest  caused by the addition of the PPI. In addition  HSBC 
had paid compensatory interest for the time Mr N had been  out of pocket.
Our adjudicator found that Mr N did hold one other  credit card account. The account number 
and credit card numbers changed over the years  but it remained the same account.  The 
adjudicator didnt think this second  account had PPI attached to it at any point.
Mr N disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint was passed to me.
Ref: DRN20951242In May 2019  I issued  my provisional findings on this complaint and invited both parties  to 
comment and send  me any additional evidence  they wanted me to think  about.  A copy  of my 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was not intending  to uphold Mr Ns complaint, my main 
reasons were:
I thought HSBC had fairly compensated Mr N for the sale of PPI with credit  card 
account number  ending 0319 (card  number 5698).
Having looked  at all the evidence provided by Mr Ns representative and HSBC Ive 
not been able to find any evidence of PPI charged  on any other  of the credit  card 
accounts or card numbers  mentioned  in my provisional decision.
Both parties  have now replied to my provisional findings.
HSBC has told us it has nothing to add.
Mr Ns representative requested an extension to 17 July 2019 but has not provided  any more  
evidence. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Neither HSBC nor Mr N have replied with any new evidence  or points for me to consider. 
Therefore I see no reason  to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision in 
May 2019.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in this decision and in my provisional decision I dont uphold Mr Ns 
complaint. I find that HSBC UK Bank Plc has fairly compensated  Mr N for the sale of PPI 
with credit card ending 5698.  And I find that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not sell PPI alongside 
the other credit card accounts  mentioned in this decision and my provisional  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20951243copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr Ns complaint is about payment protection insurance he says he was sold when he took 
out credit  cards with HSBC UK Bank Plc.
HSBC has paid Mr N compensation for the mis-sale of a PPI policy  with a credit card.
Mr N believes  he was mis-sold other  PPI policies  with other credit cards he held with HSBC.
In this decision I am only looking at Mr Ns complaint about PPI sold with credit cards.       
And specifically with the credit card numbers and account numbers that have been shown to 
me by Mr Ns representative.
Mr N says he was sold PPI with loans, but that complaint is being looked at under  a separate  
reference number.
And if Mr N identifies other  credit  card account or card numbers not mentioned in this 
decision he will need to contact HSBC  in the first instance.
background
Mr N complained to HSBC about PPI sold to him with loans and credit cards.
In September  2017 HSBC wrote to Mr N. It said it had found that Mr N was sold PPI policies 
with a loan and with a credit card ending 5698.  HSBC offered and paid Mr N £6,214.43  
compensation for the PPI sold with the credit  card.
Mr N replied to HSBC  to say he had been  sold PPI with other accounts. HSBC responded in 
March 2018 to say it had investigated all the credit cards  that had PPI attached  to them.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr N asked us to step in.
Mr N wrote in his complaint form to this service that his complaint related to 17 different 
accounts that he believed he had been  sold PPI alongside.
Mr Ns representative sent us 39 pages  of printed data obtained  from HSBC  using a Subject 
Access Report (SAR).
Mr N also sent us a spreadsheet or schedule of claims which included 18 entries        
cross-referenced to the 39 pages  of data from HSBC. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. They thought  the offer for the 
credit card ending 5698 was fair. HSBC had refunded the PPI premiums paid by Mr N, 
together with any credit  card interest  caused by the addition of the PPI. In addition  HSBC 
had paid compensatory interest for the time Mr N had been  out of pocket.
Our adjudicator found that Mr N did hold one other  credit card account. The account number 
and credit card numbers changed over the years  but it remained the same account.  The 
adjudicator didnt think this second  account had PPI attached to it at any point.
Mr N disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
Ref: DRN20951244my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having done so Im intending to find that what  HSBC  has done to put things right is fair. Ill 
explain why.
Ive begun by looking at how HSBC has compensated Mr N for the mis-sale  of PPI with 
credit card ending 5698. This card is linked to the account ending  0319. The account  was 
opened on 7 January  2005. PPI premiums  were charged until November 2010.
When PPI is mis-sold on a credit  card account Id expect the business to refund  all the PPI 
premiums together  with any credit card interest charged because  the PPI. Id also expect the 
business to pay compensatory  interest  calculated at 8% simple  per year, (less tax) for the 
time the consumer has been out of pocket. In this case I can see that HSBC has followed 
this approach and in September  2017 it offered Mr N £6,214.43. So I dont think  HSBC 
needs to do anymore to compensate Mr N for the mis-sale of PPI with credit card account  
number 0319  (card number 5698).
Mr Ns main complaint is that he feels HSBC  sold him PPI with other  credit  card accounts 
that he took out with HSBC. 
HSBC told us that Mr N was not sold PPI with any other credit  cards.  It says Mr N only had 
one other  credit card account with it and that it didnt have PPI attached.
So Ive begun by looking to see if Mr N only held two credit card accounts, or whether there 
were more.
Mr Ns representative has sent us a copy of a spreadsheet listing  18 entries  with account 
and card numbers. Ive carefully studied  the spreadsheet.
Entry number one is a current account  ending  1371and not a credit card.
Entries labelled 15, 16 and 17 all relate  to personal loans or PPI sold with loans which I am 
not looking at in this decision.
Entries 13 and 14 relate to credit card account  number 0319  and credit  card number 5698. 
As stated earlier the PPI policy  attached  to these numbers has already  been refunded  to    
Mr N.
That leaves 12 other entries out of the 18 entries  on the spreadsheet.
HSBC has told us that all the other entries on the spreadsheet relate to one account. The 
account number  changed four times and seven different cards were issued, but HSBC says 
it was one account and it never had a PPI policy attached.
Ive first looked at the account numbers  and I can see that they do follow  consecutively  as 
follows:
Card a/c ending 5030 ran from 31/10/94  to 22/8/13 then became a/c ending 7235
Ref: DRN20951245Card a/c ending 7235 ran from 22/8/13 to 27/6/14 then became a/c ending 1781
Card a/c ending 1781 ran from 27/6/14 to 7/9/16 then became  a/c ending  2206
Card a/c ending 2206 ran from 7/9/16  to 9/11/16 then became  a/c ending  5663
Ive seen a selection of credit card statements that cover all five account numbers above and 
the dates on the statements correspond to the dates Ive set out above. They also 
correspond to the dates shown on Mr Ns spreadsheet  and the 39 pages of information sent 
to Mr N by HSBC. So taking all this into account  Im persuaded that these five account 
numbers are all related to only one credit card account. 
Account ending 5663 appears twice on Mr Ns spreadsheet so there are six remaining 
entries on the spreadsheet.
Five of those entries remaining  entries are numbers ending  0037; 4271; 3859; 3361  and 
3260. These are credit card numbers and the opening and closing dates correspond with the 
dates of the five account numbers listed above.  So I am satisfied these five entries are the 
numbers of the cards that were issued to Mr N when  his account number changed.
There is one other  account  number on Mr Ns spreadsheet ending  4278. But I can see from 
HSBCs internal records that it was opened  and closed on the same day in March 2015.  So 
Mr N would not have  been charged  for PPI on that account.
Taking all this into account I am satisfied that all the account and card numbers above refer 
to one account only. I am satisfied that Mr N only had two credit  card accounts with HSBC,  
one of which HSBC  has paid compensation for the mis-sale of PPI.
HSBC has told us that the second  credit card account did not have PPI sold with it.
Ive carefully studied everything that Mr Ns representative has sent us for evidence that PPI 
was charged on this account.  Ive looked  at all 39 pages of information that HSBC sent to  
Mr N.
Ive also looked  at the credit card statements sent in by Mr Ns representatives along with 
other statements that we requested and were  sent by HSBC. When PPI is charged to a 
credit card account the premiums show on the monthly  statements  in the same way as any 
other purchase. Looking at the statements Ive not seen any evidence  of PPI premiums  
having been added to the account.  
I also requested screenshots of HSBCs internal systems used for identifying  PPI that has 
been added  to accounts. HSBC has shown us copies of these screenshots  covering all the 
accounts numbers  Ive listed in this decision. And I can see that all the searches showed  that 
no PPI had been found. 
I do realise that Mr N and his representative  feel strongly that Mr N was charged for PPI on 
other credit cards. But Ive not seen any documentary evidence of PPI on any other credit 
card account  other than the one HSBC  has already  compensated Mr N for.
Mr Ns representative told us that as credit  cards all have similar terms and conditions it 
follows that if one account had PPI the other will have too. But PPI is a separate contract to 
the credit  card account. In my experience it is possible for a consumer to be sold PPI on one 
account but not on another.  It could be that when  Mr N opened account ending  5698 he was 
mis-sold PPI but when  he opened his other account he was not. 
Ref: DRN20951246my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional 
decision, Im not intending to uphold Mr Ns complaint. Im intending to find that HSBC  UK 
Bank Plc has fairly  compensated Mr N for the sale of PPI with credit card ending  5698. And 
Im intending  to find that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not sell PPI alongside the other credit card 
accounts mentioned  in this decision.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2095124