K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that when her fixed term savings account matured, Tandem Bank Limited  
failed to follow her instructions to reinvest  the funds. She'd like to be compensated for the 
distress and inconvenience.
background
Mr H is bringing  this complaint on behalf of his wife but for clarity, Ive referred  to Mrs H in 
this decision.
Mrs H had a fixed term savings account  with Tandem that was due to mature  on 8 May 
2018. On 27 April she completed and returned an instruction mandate  saying she wanted to 
reinvest the funds  in a new bond. But she says when she called in on 17 May to ask why 
shed heard nothing further about  her new investment, she found Tandem hadnt followed 
her instructions so the money hadnt  been reinvested,
Mrs H says she didnt know where  her money  was for several days, which  caused her a lot 
of worry. She feels Tandem should  compensate  her for this. And she says its not clear  when 
Tandem would have  contacted her if she hadnt  called in or explained why it happened.
She says Tandems credited her with the interest she would have  earned  if the new bond 
had been opened on 8 May as planned, but she doesnt feel this is enough  as its what  she 
should have had anyway if her instructions had been  followed.  And for that reason, shes 
unhappy its been described  by Tandem as a goodwill  gesture.
Tandem acknowledged  it made a mistake  in processing the new mandate and this had 
caused a short delay insetting  up the new bond.  But it says it had identified  the problem 
before Mrs H called  which  is why it was able to resolve the problem  that same  day. It says it 
couldnt change  the date the bond  had been  set up but it had calculated the interest Mrs H 
would have had if it had been set up as planned and paid this, totalling £31.07, into her 
account. It felt this was reasonable.  
Our investigator said he could look at the way Tandem had dealt with Mrs Hs instructions 
but not the way it had dealt with her complaint as that wasnt  a regulated activity. However 
hed gone on to consider  whether the steps  taken by Tandem to put matter right had been  
fair. Having  done  so he could see Tandem had made a mistake  in setting up the new bond 
but as soon as it realised  thered been  a problem it had taken steps  to put matters  right and 
credited Mrs H with the interest she would have had if it had been set up on the correct date. 
He felt this was reasonable and that overall Tandem  had dealt  with the complaint fairly so he 
wouldnt be asking it to do anything  more.
Mrs H disagreed and said this didnt take into account the worry and concern shed had 
when she hadnt  known what had happened  to her funds. She asked  for her complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN23955952Tandem has agreed it made  a mistake in processing  Mr Hs mandate so I wont look at that 
in detail but whether the steps it took to put matters right were reasonable.
I can understand why Mrs H was unhappy  to find thered been a delay in reinvesting  her 
funds. But the reinvestment was being done  by Tandem,  the same  bank that was already 
holding her funds,  so I dont think there was any reason to think the money  had gone  
missing. And Ive seen  that when Mrs H called on the 17 September, Tandem was able to 
confirm to her that same  day that her funds had now been reinvested as shed asked and 
that it had credited her account  with the interest she would  have had if this had been done 
on the 8 September as intended.
I appreciate Mrs H feels Tandem was wrong  to call this additional interest a goodwill 
gesture. To some  extent  Id agree as this was money that she would have had if the 
reinvestment had been done  on the date agreed. But as Tandems explained because this 
related to a time before the new bond  was set up, thats how its system has to record  this 
payment. I cant ask Tandem to change its systems  but Im satisfied the key point is that Mrs 
H hasnt suffered any loss as a result of the delay.
I can see Mrs H feels Tandem hasnt acknowledged the impact this had on her. Clearly the 
mistake shouldnt have  happened but my role is to consider whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint. In this case the matter was put right on the same day 
and Tandems ensured theres  been no loss of interest. I realise Mrs H may not agree but in 
the circumstances I think  Tandems dealt with this reasonably and fairly and I wont be 
asking it to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2395595