K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that his annuity from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited was mis-sold.
background
Mr S arranged a pension annuity  through  Aviva in 2013, which  cost around £75,000. A cash-
equivalent transfer value (CETV)  for the annuity  was provided in 2017,  as part of Mr Ss 
divorce proceedings. The CETV was around £93,000.
Mr S considered the increased CETV meant  hed been sold an investment  rather than an 
annuity. He said Aviva had advised  him on what to do in 2013, and hadnt  warned him that 
the value of what he was buying  could go up as well as down. Mr S considered Aviva had 
mis-sold the annuity  hed bought.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt  persuaded 
that Aviva  had given  any advice  to Mr S in 2013, and she didnt find that it had sold an 
investment rather than an annuity. Overall, she wasnt persuaded that the annuity had been 
mis-sold.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S is unhappy because the CETV  Aviva  provided  in 2017 was higher  than the amount he 
paid for the annuity in 2013.  This had an effect on his divorce settlement.
Mr S said he thought hed bought an annuity, but he considers the increased CETV shows 
that Aviva  sold him an investment that could fluctuate in value.  Mr S says Aviva advised him 
on what to do in 2013, and didnt warn  him that the value of what he was buying could affect 
any future divorce settlement.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr S has said. Ive also reviewed the documents from 
the time the annuity was sold.
Mr S considers Aviva advised him on what to do in 2013. Aviva  supplied a Key Features 
document about the annuity  to Mr S, and a Key Facts sheet.  Both documents provided 
information about the annuity, so that Mr S could make a decision about his pension provision.
I accept that both documents contain a lot of information about the product Mr S was buying. 
So I can why he might think this amounted to advice from Aviva. 
But for the purpose of giving formal financial advice, Aviva wouldve had to make some  sort 
of personalised  recommendation  about  whether or not the product Mr S was buying was 
suitable for him. If Aviva  had been giving this type of advice, I wouldve expected to see 
evidence of discussions between the business and Mr S to establish  his circumstances and 
pension requirements.  Aviva wouldve then provided personalised advice, tailored to Mr Ss 
particular needs.
Ref: DRN28685852From what  Ive seen, Im not persuaded that level of analysis  took place. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that Aviva was giving formal financial  advice to Mr S. In addition,  I note 
that both the Key Features and Key Facts  documents say:
The [Financial Services Authority/Financial Conduct Authority]requires us, Aviva, to give 
you this important information to help you decide  whether our Pension Annuity is right for 
you [my emphasis].
This suggests to me that Aviva was providing  information to Mr S on a non-advised basis.  It 
had to give him enough information about  the annuity so that he could make an informed 
decision about whether or not the product was right for him. 
Im not persuaded that Aviva advised Mr S on whether or not he should buy the annuity. So 
it didnt have to check whether  it was suitable  for him. Mr S had to decide that for himself, 
based on the information Aviva provided  to him.
I realise Mr S considers Aviva shouldve told him that the CETV of his annuity  could be more 
than what he paid for it. He says this wouldve influenced his decision to buy it. Mr S also 
considers Aviva sold him an investment rather than an annuity, because the CETV was 
more than the amount he originally paid for the product.
But annuities arent intended to be converted into cash and so providers arent required to 
explain the prospect  of a future  CETV. The CETV was provided for divorce proceedings 
only, and these are very particular circumstances. Its not an actual cash value which the 
annuity can be converted into  so not an investment - rather a notional figure of the value of 
that annuity at that point in time  so broadly what it might cost to buy that annuity on the 
open market,  taking into account  a range of factors such as prevailing annuity rates, which  
are likely to have changed since 2013.  
With that in mind, I dont  consider the product information Aviva  gave Mr S shouldve  
extended to an explanation of how a CETV for divorce proceedings might work.  From  what 
Ive seen, Im satisfied that the information  Aviva gave Mr S was sufficient for him to make a 
decision about whether the annuitys  pension benefits were appropriate for his 
circumstances at the time.
In summary,  Im not persuaded that Aviva  advised  Mr S to buy the annuity and I dont find 
that the product was mis-sold or misrepresented. So there are no reasonable grounds on 
which I can uphold Mr Ss complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2868585