K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Motability Operations Limited (Motability)  wont  offer finance on the 
type of vehicle he requires. 
background
Mr S currently leases  his vehicles from Motability. Motabilitys customers are able to choose 
a vehicle as long as it falls within its criteria and is available on the scheme.  Part of this 
criteria is that there  is a maximum on the road price  of the vehicle. Motability will also only 
lease vehicles with a brake  horse  power  (BHP) of 200BHP or less. And it only leases 
vehicles which fall within an insurance rating  system. The list of available vehicles changes  
quarterly. 
Motability has explained that if a customers specific needs meant they required a vehicle 
that wasnt available on its scheme, it looks to suggest alternatives. And if theres a medical 
reason for a customer  requiring  a make of vehicle where there are no suitable  alternatives, 
Motability says it may use its discretion to source a vehicle not usually available  on the 
scheme  providing  it meets the other  criteria mentioned above. 
Mr S wanted  to change  his vehicle with Motability, and he contacted  it in early 2019 to say 
he was unhappy  as there were no low four-wheel  drive vehicles available on the scheme  
that met his needs. Motability  ran through some options with Mr S, none of which were 
accepted. He gave Motability  a list of vehicles  he believed were  suitable. But none  of these 
were available on the scheme  or fell within Motabilitys criteria. 
Mr S complained because  he felt he was being treated unfairly. Motability  said it was not 
able to offer Mr S any of the vehicles he wanted. It gave him the following options:
Choose a vehicle that was available on the scheme. 
Extend the arrangement Mr S was in for a maximum  of two years, to enable  him to 
review vehicles in future quarters. 
Consider options  outside of the scheme. 
Mr S was unhappy so brought the complaint to our service. He entered into another  lease 
agreement with Motability in June 2019. But he remains  unhappy.  He felt Motability should 
have used its discretion  to offer a vehicle that was more  suited  to his needs. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He investigated  whether he 
thought Motability  acted  fairly by not offering Mr S one of the vehicles he wanted. But he said 
he wasnt going to investigate Mr Ss complaint that Motability customers  who wanted  a 
sport utility  vehicle (SUV) had more choice than those wanting an estate   because he didnt 
think this fell within our scope. 
Our investigator felt that Motability had acted fairly. He noted it had tried to offer a range of 
alternatives to Mr S. And he felt it wasnt unreasonable for Motability to apply its policies 
when deciding which vehicles  were  available on the scheme.  Overall,  our investigator felt 
that Motability treated Mr S in line with how they treat their other  customers  and he didnt 
make any recommendations. 
Mr S didnt agree. He felt that the investigator hadnt  fully understood his point of view.  He 
pointed towards several SUVs available on the scheme which  were above  Motabilitys  price  
Ref: DRN28194372cap and reiterated  that he thought Motability had treated him unfairly. He also pointed to 
other Motability customers who he says were  able to lease cars outside of the scheme that 
were more suited to their needs. Mr S thought Motability had discriminated against him.
As things  couldnt  be resolved, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point,  I want to point out that Im aware Mr S has other complaints with 
Motability. Our investigator has correctly explained to Mr S what  were  able to consider 
under this complaint. For the avoidance of doubt,  this decision only concerns Mr Ss 
complaint relating to whether Motability  have  acted fairly by refusing to offer other  vehicles 
on the scheme. 
Mr S leases his vehicles from Motability  under  regulated  hire agreements.  Motability is the 
supplier of the goods under these  types of agreements. And our service has the power  to 
consider complaints about activities relating to these agreements.  
Im sorry  to hear Mr S was unhappy with the vehicles that were on offer. He says he wanted 
a low vehicle so it was easier to transfer into it from his wheelchair. He requested a vehicle 
with bucket seats so he could  be comfortable.  He wanted a vehicle  without a boot lip, and 
one with enough boot space for his wheel chair  and hand cycle. And he wanted  a four-wheel 
drive vehicle because  theres snow every  year where he lives, and he feels hed be 
housebound without this feature. Motability  werent  able to offer something Mr S found  
acceptable and, in essence,  he feels Motability have discriminated against him. 
Mr S has complained that Motability has failed to make reasonable adjustments for him. In 
other words, has failed their duty to make  reasonable adjustments  under the 
Equality Act 2010. Ive taken  the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this 
complaint  given  that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided  this complaint based  on 
whats fair and reasonable. If Mr S wants a decision  that Motability has breached the 
Equality Act 2010, then hed need  to go Court.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that anyone disputes  Mr S is disabled  for the purposes of the 
Equality Act 2010. Under the Equality Act 2010,  Motability mustnt directly or indirectly 
discriminate against  Mr S and has to make reasonable adjustments for him.
Ive therefore  thought  about whether Motability  acted fairly by declining to offer Mr S an 
alternative vehicle  to one that was already on the scheme. 
In Mr Ss case, I think Motability did try to engage  with him. And I think it did try to find a 
solution for him. Initially it gave him the option of keeping the vehicle he had. It discussed 
arranging a hoist to help with transferring the wheelchair to the boot. And it looked into 
seeing if Mr S could obtain a grant  to enable him to get a vehicle not on the scheme.  
Mr S put forward a few different make  and models to Motability that he says met his needs. 
Motability considered  the vehicles but none of them met its criteria. Ive had a look at its 
reasoning for declining the models  that were  put forward, and I dont think it acted unfairly. 
Ref: DRN28194373All the vehicles were  either over the price cap, had higher BHPs than what  Motability  would 
accept or were in an insurance bracket that it deemed too high. 
Mr S has said that Motability  does  sometimes offer vehicles that exceed the price cap. I dont 
doubt this may be the case. But Im mindful that Motability has pointed out that there  were  
vehicles available  on the scheme  that met most  of Mr Ss needs. And I also have to bear in 
mind that some of Mr Ss requirements were  not as a result of his disability  such as his 
request for a four-wheel  drive vehicle. I think this is important because,  from what I can see, 
there were vehicles that met all his requirements  apart from the four-wheel drive element. I 
appreciate Mr S had preferences, but I cant say that these were all needs as a result of his 
disability. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Motability did try to accommodate  Mr S where 
possible. I understand why Mr S was disappointed  Motability didnt use its discretion to offer 
him a vehicle not on the scheme. But, in this particular set of circumstances, given what Ive 
said above, I dont  think Motability has acted unfairly.
All things  considered, Im not going  to direct  Motability to take any further  action. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2021.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2819437