K822xcomplaint
Mrs D complains that Great Lakes  Insurance SE acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
dealing with her claim  under a travel insurance policy. She wants her claim paid.
background 
Mrs D had a travel insurance policy with Great Lakes. She made a claim under the policy as 
she said she had to cancel her solo holiday due to suffering from a sickness and diarrhoea 
bug which  started the day before she was due to travel. Great Lakes declined the claim as 
Mrs D hadnt provided a medical certificate from a doctor confirming that she was unfit.
Mrs D complained to Great Lakes, saying that her GP had confirmed that she was right not to 
attend a surgery  with such symptoms. It said that there was no evidence  supporting  Mrs Ds 
account  she hadnt seen a GP or called 111. Great  Lakes pointed  out that the terms and 
conditions of the policy required a medical certificate from a treating medical practitioner that 
the policyholder  had been prevented from travelling, though it accepted  Mrs D had been 
suddenly ill. It didnt  accept that a letter from Mrs Ds GP that she was right not to contact him 
about a sickness  and diarrhoea bug, that it was NHS advice to stay at home,  and if hed been 
contacted he wouldve  told Mrs D to cancel her holiday supported her claim.
Mrs D complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint should be upheld. 
He accepted that Mrs D acted reasonably  in failing to contact her GP or 111 as there was 
nothing that could be done to deal with a sickness and diarrhoea  bug. The investigator noted  
that the NHS  specifically asked patients  not to attend GP surgeries with such  conditions and 
Mrs D promptly  told Great Lakes about  what had happened.
The investigator also said Great Lakes told Mrs D to contact her GP, and his letter explained 
why Mrs D was right in cancelling the trip and not seeing him when  unwell. He didnt accept  
that it was fair or reasonable to decline the claim and recommended that the claim  was 
settled, together  with interest.
Great Lakes disagreed. It said that the investigators decision conflicted  with other previous 
decisions of this service, and Mrs Ds GP hadnt examined her when she was ill, so his view 
wasnt helpful. The investigator didnt change his view and noted  that the GP said Mrs D was 
right to cancel the trip  this suggested that he thought it was medically necessary.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This service considers complaints  on a 
case by case basis, bearing in mind the individual circumstances of each case.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The terms and conditions  of the policy are relevant and I note that they state that 
cancellation due to illness could be covered, provided that a medical certificate from a 
treating medical  practitioner is supplied. But this service can look outside the strict wording  
of the policy  if thats the fair and reasonable thing to do. 
Ref: DRN24415432In Mrs Ds case, there is no medical  certificates  to be supplied  as she didnt  receive medical 
treatment theres no clear requirement that a medical certificate must be obtained (and 
such a requirement may need to be highlighted) in all cases. The policy refers to a treating 
medical practitioner and can only be supplied if available; if not available, one should  look at 
whether theres  a reasonable explanation  as to why not. 
Given the nature of the illness, I think that Mrs Ds account is reasonable and Great  Lakes 
itself isnt claiming that Mrs D wasnt ill. Patients with sickness and diarrhoea  bugs dont  
generally require  medical  attention or any special medication; theres usually no need  to call 
111. 111 does  not exist in order to provide evidence to support insurance claims; it 
undertakes a vital role in triaging the medical  needs of the public. Mrs Ds evidence  about 
why theres no medical evidence is credible and consistent.
And I note that Great Lakes told Mrs D to contact her GP after she notified it of the claim. As 
it knew the GP hadnt treated her at the time,  its unreasonable to then say the evidence  he 
gave wasnt relevant. In fact, the GPs letter wholly supports what Mrs D has said  she 
didnt need to see a doctor, there  was nothing to be done, the NHS  doesnt want  such 
patients to attend  and if Mrs D had been  seen, she wouldve been advised  to cancel her 
holiday.
I think its fair and reasonable that Great Lakes  wants to be confident about the reason for 
the cancellation of the trip, but Mrs Ds own account of what  happened is evidence.  Her 
account is supported  by her call to Great Lakes, her GP and logic.  And its relevant to 
consider the nature of the trip cancelled  it was to go on holiday. Most people  who book 
such a trip want to go. Its more likely than not that there was a good reason for the 
cancellation and Mrs Ds sickness and diarrhoea bug is a credible explanation. Mrs D also 
has pointed out that shes never made  a travel insurance claim before.
It isnt fair or reasonable for Great Lakes to say as theres no medical  certificate, it wont 
consider the claim  further. I think that it should consider the claim as if such a medical 
certificate was provided (which means  it can ask for invoices and other evidence of financial 
loss), and pay interest of 8% simple interest a year from the date Mrs D first tried to make  
the claim until the date of settlement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Great Lakes Insurance  SE should  
consider Mrs Ds claim without requiring a medical  certificate and pay interest on any 
successful claim  as outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2441543