K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit  International Limited  trading  as Sunny - irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 5 instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr M between August 2015  
and January 2016. Mr Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Highest Repayment Made
1 29/08/2015 25/09/2015 6 £250.00 £81.29
2 30/09/2015 26/11/2015 6 £550.00 £256.60
3 12/12/2015 12/01/2016 6 £50.00 £271.19
4 16/12/2015 12/01/2016 6 £100.00 £299.69
5 19/12/2015 12/01/2016 6 £100.00 £333.05
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ms complaint and thought loan 5 shouldnt have been given 
because proportionate checks would have shown Mr M was struggling to manage his 
money. Sunny disagreed and made the following  points: 
Mr M hadnt  contacted  it to say he was struggling financially.
It explained why it believed it had done  proportionate checks  on ensure Mr M could 
afford the loans.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN26260652the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.  Having done so, Im partially  upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Our adjudicator thought Sunny had carried out proportionate checks  for loans 1 to 4. Mr M 
didnt respond  to the view. As there is no dispute with the adjudicators opinion about  these 
loans, I wont be making  any findings  on them. 
Sunny says it carried out checks before  it lent loan 5 to Mr M and the results  of these checks 
didnt raise any concerns.  But as this was Mr Ms fifth loan in just under four months,  I think 
Sunny should  have  been looking to build a clearer picture about  Mr Ms finances before 
lending him this loan. 
Had Sunny  carried  out proportionate checks before lending loan 5, its likely to have found 
that Mr M was borrowing from other  short-term  lenders as well as having out-standing loans 
with Sunny itself.  The repayments for these  loans would have been  increasing his monthly 
outgoings. This behaviour was most likely  an indication he was in a cycle of debt and the 
further borrowing  to cover the hole that repaying his previous loans  were  leaving in his 
finances. 
So, Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 5 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loan 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 5 from Mr Ms credit file;
Ref: DRN26260653 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Mr M a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ms complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2626065