K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) mishandled her claim for legal expenses  
insurance.
UKI is the underwriter of Ms As legal expenses insurance, and they use intermediaries to 
help administer the insurance on their behalf. Any reference to UKI should also be taken  as 
including such intermediaries.
background
Ms A holds a travel insurance policy which includes cover for legal expenses. She had 
submitted previous claims to UKI concerning  different  trips she had made overseas:
Claim No.
Claim Type Date of loss Date reported
1 Legal expenses 30/06/2016 15/06/2017
2 Legal expenses 06/05/2015 03/08/2017
3 Travel claim 30/11/2017 05/12/2017
4 Legal expenses 25/12/2017 17/01/2018
5 Travel claim 30/04/2018 04/05/18
Ms As legal  expenses claims  had initially been referred to UKIs preferred solicitors  
(Firm S). However, she became increasingly  unhappy with the service  she received from 
the solicitors in relation to claims one and two, as they had made a number of mistakes, 
such as sending documentation to the wrong  address, as well as sending  the wrong  
documentation in relation  to her claims.  
UKI agreed  to pay £100 compensation, and Ms A says they also promised to transfer her 
legal expenses claims to a different firm of solicitors (Firm  D). However, she later 
complained again because it appeared her claims had not been transferred  to Firm D as 
promised. 
UKI say that claims one and two had been  transferred to Firm D in August 2017 as 
promised. Claim one was found not to have reasonable prospects, and claim two was 
subsequently settled for £500. However, claim four was a separate matter that was raised 
after the previous claims had been  resolved, but this claim was sent to Firm S, who issued a 
legal assessment on 31 May 2018  saying the claims had no prospects  of success. Ms A was 
unhappy that Firm S had assessed  her complaint instead of Firm D. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Despite what  had happened with her previous 
claims, he didnt think there  was enough evidence to suggest that Ms A had ever requested 
that claim four be passed to Firm D as well, or that UKI had said this will happen. So the 
investigator didnt  think  UKI had acted unreasonably, or that they should  now pass  the claim 
to any other  firm to consider as it had already received a legal assessment by Firm S. Ms A 
disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
Ref: DRN24961152Ms A says that her claims were  not passed  to Firm D from Firm S as she had been 
promised. I can see that claims  one and two were in fact removed from Firm S and passed 
to Firm D, who duly considered them (and that £100  compensation was also paid for the 
errors identified, which  I think is reasonable).  So I do not intend on exploring these claims 
any further.
However, Ms A remains unhappy that claim four was considered  by Firm S, who said her 
claim did not have sufficient prospects of success, and she wants it to be considered again 
by Firm D. I appreciate that Ms A did not have  a good impression of Firm S given her 
previous dealings. But these were in relation to past claims. 
Claim four was reported to UKI on 17 January  2018, and Ms A says she was told over the 
phone that this claim would also be passed  to Firm D and removed from Firm S. But having  
considered the evidence,  I can see that UKI only promised this in their correspondence 
relating to claims one and two. I have not seen any evidence to suggest  that the same was 
also promised for claim four. I appreciate Ms A says this was done over the phone  and that 
the calls were not recorded. But there is nothing to corroborate her version of events, such  
as contact notes  or follow up correspondence  for example. So Im not persuaded UKI had 
promised Ms A that claim four would also be passed  to Firm D.
I understand Ms A may have been  surprised  that her claim was considered  by Firm S given 
that the previous two had been assessed  by Firm D. But I wouldnt expect UKI to have then 
re-directed all future claims to the same solicitor  when  they consider Firm S to perhaps  be 
best placed to conduct  the legal assessment. And given that Firm S has since issued a legal  
assessment, I see no reason why UKI ought to pay for another one. 
I appreciate Ms A may not agree with the legal assessment provided by Firm S. But UKI has 
said that she can provide  her own prospects  assessment  from another  suitably qualified 
solicitor. And if it is shown that claim four does have over 51% prospects, they will reimburse  
her the cost of the second legal  assessment,  which I consider to be a fair proposal in the 
circumstances. However,  as I dont think UKI have acted inappropriately in sending claim 
four to Firm S, I will not be awarding any compensation  or asking them to do anything 
further.  
  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2496115