K820x#14complaint
Miss Ps complaint is about  a specific trade  that was opened in her account with Gain  
Capital UK Limited  (trading as City Index). The trade was a Sell position for 70.75 on the US 
Crude Oil May 18 Spread. It was opened at 13:03  GMT on 4 April 2018 and closed, by a 
margin call, at 15:59 GMT  on the same  date.
Miss P and her father operate the account.  She says neither of them  placed  this trade. She 
(and her father) complained to City Index and sought redress  for the loss that arose from it.
background
City Index did not uphold the complaint. It said the IP address from which  the trade was 
placed was based in the country,  abroad, in which Miss Ps father was visiting at the relevant 
time; it referred to past instances in which Miss Ps father had submitted trades  with errors; it 
said its IT department had investigated  the matter  and it could  not be certain  that the trade 
had not been placed by Miss Ps father; it noted  that there was sufficient balance  in the 
account to allow the opening  of the trade and that the margin  call that led to its closure was 
legitimate; it referred  to the parts of its terms and conditions related to margin calls, to an 
account holders  responsibility  to safeguard  account  details and to circumstances, relevant 
to the complaint, in which its liability for loss is limited  or excluded; overall, it concluded that it 
was more likely than not that the trade had been placed by Miss Ps father, perhaps  in error.
The matter  was referred to this service and was considered by one of our investigators.  She 
concluded that the complaint should  not be upheld, for reasons  broadly similar  to those 
given by City Index.  She considered that available evidence did not suggest  that the account 
had been hacked or that there was an incentive for such hacking given that the beneficiary 
of the trade  if profitable  would have been the account holder (that is, Miss P).
Miss P did not accept  this outcome and clarified that she does not allege fraud or that her 
account was hacked. Instead, she suggests that a technical error within City Indexs system 
is likely  to have caused the placement  of the trade  in error. She explained  that her father  had 
sought to clarify if such a technical error occurred at the end of the broadband provider 
abroad, where he was at the time of the trade and where City Index traced  the IP address to. 
She confirmed he had established that the trade  was not placed from their PC, so she 
queried the likelihood that the fault exists within City Indexs system.  In support of her 
position Miss P submitted  what she considered to be examples of past errors by City Index,  
with regards to trade  related information  on its platform.
The investigator put Miss Ps response  to City Index. It disputed the response.  It also noted 
that the examples she gave related to her fathers  account  not hers.  The investigator then 
confirmed that her view on the complaint remained unchanged, given the lack of evidence  to 
support the idea that City Indexs system had a technical error which caused the trade  to be 
placed. Miss P then asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN27272442Given Miss Ps clarification that she does not allege  fraud and she does not allege that her 
account was hacked, the surviving   relevant   issue  in this complaint  is whether (or not) the 
trade was erroneously placed as a direct result  of a technical error in City Indexs system. 
I am not persuaded that I need to consider  whether (or not) Miss Ps father placed the trade  
erroneously as City Index  suggests. His evidence is that he did not. Wider evidence 
suggests that the trade was placed in the same country, abroad, as he was at the relevant 
time but his evidence  also extends  to asserting that the trade was not placed from his PC. 
Overall, I consider this aspect of the complaint  to be one for which  evidence  is perhaps 
insufficient and, more importantly, I consider that it arguably deviates  from the crux of the 
complaint. If, as Miss P confirms and accepts, fraud and/or hacking  are not alleged and are 
not issues then,  as I said directly above,  the only matter that remains   with relevance to City 
Indexs liability  is that of any technical  error  that was or was not within its system.
I have not seen evidence of any such technical  error. I note Miss Ps references to past 
examples of technical errors in her fathers  account.  However, I am not satisfied that her 
references and the examples she forwarded to us establishes that a technical error caused  
the trade on 4 April 2018. As the investigator said, technical errors can indeed  happen, but 
that possibility  alone does  not automatically mean such an error  caused the trade  in this 
complaint. Evidence  that such an error  in City Indexs  system directly caused the trade on 4 
April 2018 is necessary and none  appears to exist. The same applies  to any notion  of 
negligence on City Indexs part  I have not seen evidence of this.
Upon placement  of the trade, City Index acted  in the normal  course of its business  by 
executing it and the margin call that closed the trade  does not appear  to be in dispute. In the 
absence of fraud, negligence or negligence that caused fraud,  and in the absence  of a 
technical fault in its system, I do not consider there is a ground upon which to hold City Index 
responsible for the trade or for the loss arising  from the trade.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2727244