K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that Nationwide Building  Society requested an incorrect amount from her 
current ISA provider.
background
Miss L opened a cash ISA with Nationwide in March 2018. She asked Nationwide  to transfer 
only some  of the money she held in an ISA with another provider (which Ill call her Existing 
ISA) to her new Nationwide ISA. But instead Nationwide requested for the full balance  of her 
Existing ISA to be transferred to her new Nationwide ISA. Miss L says this resulted in her 
Existing ISA being closed.
When Miss L went to check the balance  of her Existing ISA online she thought  shed been 
the victim of fraud as there was no money  left in her account  due to Nationwide  requesting  
the transfer of the full balance of her Existing ISA.
Nationwide accepts that it made a mistake when it transferred  the wrong amount. So it 
provided £100 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Miss L doesnt think the compensation  offered is insufficient because she says she had great  
difficulty persuading her Existing ISA provider to re-open her account. So she brought  her 
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  Miss Ls complaint. He thought Nationwide  
had treated Miss L fairly  and that the compensation was fair. Nationwide admitted  its 
mistake. It arranged for the full amount to be transferred back  to her Existing  ISA and then it 
asked for the correct amount to be transferred. Nationwide received  the correct amount in early 
May 2018 and it arranged  for Miss Ls interest to be back-dated to the date in March 2018 when 
the original amount was transferred from her Existing ISA to Nationwide.  So Miss L hadnt lost 
out financially.
The adjudicator also noted that Nationwide dealt with Miss Ls Existing  ISA provider to 
ensure her Existing ISA was reopened.
Miss L doesnt agree with the adjudicators  view.  She thinks  £500 compensation is more 
appropriate taking  into account the gravity of the matter. So shes  asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that the problem was caused  by Nationwide. So I need to consider whether 
Nationwide has done enough to put matters right. I believe it has. And Im also of the opinion 
that the payment of £100 compensation is fair so Ill explain  why.
When financial businesses make a mistake we look at the impact the mistake has had. In 
this case, when Nationwide became aware of its mistake, it transferred the full amount back  
to Miss Ls Existing ISA provider. And it then reclaimed the correct amount back.
Ref: DRN22567032When it reclaimed the correct amount and credited Miss Ls ISA account Im satisfied that 
Miss L hasnt lost out financially. I can see that when the correct amount was credited to 
Miss Ls Nationwide ISA in April 2018 the interest was back-dated  to the date Miss L 
originally requested the transfer.
I appreciate, though, that Miss L will have been shocked to discover  she had no funds in her 
Existing ISA account when Nationwide initially requested the wrong  amount. But as Ive 
already explained Nationwide put this right. And as Miss L suffered no financial loss I think 
the compensation of £100 for the trouble  and upset caused by Nationwides mistake  is fair in 
the circumstances.
Im not persuaded that Miss L suffered any further inconvenience by having  to re-open her 
Existing ISA account. I say this because Nationwide has provided  information to show  it 
contacted her Existing ISA provider to reinstate her Existing ISA.
It follows that I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further.
decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2256703