K820x#14complaint
Ms J says CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as QuickQuid  irresponsibly lent to her. She says 
she couldnt afford the repayments when she took the loans. 
background
This complaint is about two payday loans QuickQuid provided to Ms J. The first was 
approved in 2012 and the second in 2018. Ms Js lending history is as follows:
loan  
numberdate startedamount  
borrowedterm date ended
1 23/08/2012 £400 8 days 31/08/2012
2 09/08/2018 £600 78 days outstanding
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms Js complaint. She thought the checks  made  by the 
business were proportionate. So she thought its decisions to lend were reasonable.  
Ms J disagreed. She said that she was in financial difficulties  when  the second loan was 
taken out and she had loans from other businesses. As no agreement was reached  the 
complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms J 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Js complaint.
Ive seen a record  of the information Ms J provided  when she completed both her loan 
applications. Ms J said she had a monthly  income  of £1,750  before both loans. For loan 1 
there are no recorded details about her expenditure. But given this was her first loan,  I dont 
think it was necessary for QuickQuid to obtain  this information, and I dont think  it was 
unreasonable to rely on the income figures  alone. Based on which, I think  this loan wouldve 
appeared to have been affordable for Ms J. 
And Ms J told QuickQuid she had regular  monthly outgoings of £900 before the second loan. 
Which when deducted from an income  of around £1,750,  wouldve  left her with more than 
enough in disposable income  to meet the repayments due. So I also think  it wouldve been 
reasonable for QuickQuid to think that this loan was affordable from the information it had.
Ref: DRN26346622I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely QuickQuid was made aware of 
any financial  problems Ms J mightve been having.  Or anything  that wouldve  prompted  it to 
investigate her circumstances  further.  So I think it was reasonable for QuickQuid to rely on 
the information it obtained, bearing in mind  there  were only two loans with almost six years  
between them. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments  QuickQuid did for these loans 
were proportionate. And I think  its decisions to lend were reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2634662