K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ss complaint is that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (John Lewis) treated her 
unfairly when she expressed  concerns about  using a service for hearing-impaired 
customers, and about  how her complaint  was then dealt with.
background
In early 2019 Mrs S contacted John Lewis with concerns about  using  its NGT (Next 
Generation Text) relay service,  which  is a facility to assist hearing-impaired customers when 
dealing with their account. She was worried that giving  personal security information to this 
third party service might compromise  her and make her more  susceptible to fraud.
Unfortunately, the online  messaging system  used  by Mrs S to correspond  with John Lewis  
meant that she was having to wait days for a reply,  both to her initial concerns, and then to 
her complaint. In addition,  a complaint wasnt raised for her when she first asked  for this to 
be done.
She brought  her complaint to our service in July 2019. Our Investigator  contacted John 
Lewis, and found  that it had provided  Mrs S with three final responses. In these had 
apologised for its poor service; reassured  her about the safe use of the NGT system; 
explained that if there was any future  fraud this would be taken into account; and paid her 
£80 overall in compensation.
Our Investigator  was also advised that Mrs S had been compensated with a further £100 for 
a similar  complaint.
So he felt that John Lewis had already done enough  to resolve matters, and didnt think it 
would be fair to ask it to increase compensation.
Mrs S didnt agree. She didnt think the compensation  was enough, and remained unhappy  
with the length of time John Lewis was taking to respond to her secure messages. So she 
asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigator  that John Lewis has done  enough  to resolve 
this complaint, and so I wont be upholding it.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, and Id like to explain why I believe 
this is a fair outcome for both  parties.
The grounds of complaint  here are not in dispute.  So I wont  be going into detail about those. 
John Lewis  has admitted its failures  and tried to put things right.  My role is therefore to 
assess whether I think its done  enough.
I can see why Mrs S was frustrated with John  Lewis  given  the delays and general hassles 
in her trying to contact  it  both before and after she raised her complaint. This, of course, is 
Ref: DRN23997592exacerbated by the fact that given her disability Mrs S isnt able to call them  up in the usual 
way. 
I can also understand why, having  been a victim  of fraud previously, she needed some 
reassurance about  the safety and security of her personal information  when  using the NGT 
system.
I know the answers and reassurance  she was seeking took longer to come than they ought 
to, and that even  now shes experiencing what she feels are unacceptable delays in 
corresponding with John  Lewis.  But I think its done enough to try to put things right.
While Mrs S doesnt agree, I think John  Lewis has listened to her concerns and has tried in 
good faith to resolve matters with her. I think she now has the explanations and assurances 
she needed, and has also been  compensated for the poor experience. I dont think 
increasing the compensation would be proportionate  to the complaint grounds,  and its not 
going to take away  from Mrs Ss poor experience. Rather it would be punishing John Lewis, 
which isnt what this service does. Were here to find a fair resolution  to both parties,  using 
the evidence we have. While I dont deny the impact Mrs S says John  Lewis treatment has 
had on her, I still believe the steps  its already taken to make good have been  fair and 
sufficient.
For these reasons, I wont be asking John Lewis  to take any further action to resolve this 
complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.  
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2399759