K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
September 2002. Mr H says Bank  of Scotland  Plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr H bought the policy in September 2002  at the same time as taking  out a credit card.  The 
sale took place  by way of a postal application.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
I dont think the policy  was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr H says he wasnt given an option  of having  the credit card without the PPI. He says that 
had he been given a choice, he would  have declined it. So, Ive thought about what hes said 
alongside the additional information Ive seen from Bank of Scotland.
Bank of Scotland has provided  us with a copy of Mr Hs credit agreement. This shows Mr H 
was given the option of adding the PPI to his account. Under the section  PROTECTING 
YOUR PAYMENTS  Mr H was asked to tick a box if he wanted  the PPI. Looking at Mr Hs 
credit agreement, I can see he ticked  a box next to the statement  YES,  I would like to take 
out the Credit  Card  Repayments Cover  costing just 78p per £100 of my statement balance. I 
am eligible in accordance  with the conditions shown  in the enclosed leaflet.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely than not Mr H would have understood 
the PPI was optional. And I dont think he would have ticked a box for the cover if he didnt 
want to take it out. I appreciate what Mr Hs representative has said about the fact that the 
credit agreement didnt  describe  the PPI as optional and that the section for the PPI didnt 
set out a tick box for Mr H to decline the PPI. But these points dont  change  the outcome of 
this complaint. As Ive already stated above, Mr H was asked to tick a box if he wanted the 
PPI. If he didnt want the PPI he could  have left the box unticked.
Both parties  agree that the PPI wasnt recommended  to Mr H. So Bank of Scotland  didnt 
have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr H got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mr H chose to take out 
the PPI, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical  conditions  so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Ref: DRN27404332Mr H has told us he didnt need  PPI as he would have received generous  sick pay from his 
employer. He says he would have been entitled  to six months full pay followed by six months 
half pay from his employer if he was too unwell to work. Having thought about what  Mr H has 
said about his sick pay, I dont  think this means  he wouldnt have found the policy  useful. I 
say this because  the PPI would have paid out in addition to the sick pay Mr A would have 
received from his employer and would have potentially paid out for longer than he would 
have received full pay. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mr H was ever made 
redundant or in the event  of death. 
While I appreciate Mr Hs representatives comments about the fact that Mr H could have 
made a claim during  a period of illness, but chose not to and instead relied on his work 
benefits, I dont  think  this meant that the policy was mis-sold. Ive already concluded  that    
Mr H chose to have  the cover in place knowing it would pay a benefit if he was too unwell to 
work, so it was up to him to decide  if he wanted  to make a claim.
So overall, I think Mr H could have  found  the policy useful  if he ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better  information would have put him off from taking out the policy.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr H paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already  offered to give Mr H back  some 
of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mr H now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2740433