K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002. Mr C 
says Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr C applied for his credit card through  the post and BoS has provided  a copy of his 
application from. Mr C says that he didnt want or need  the PPI, and he was led to 
believe that the policy was compulsory. BoS has provided  a copy of his application. On 
this, I can see that the PPI is presented  as optional, and has been selected with a tick. 
Mr C has gone  on to sign the application,  agreeing to the information on it. So with this in 
mind, I think  BoS made it clear that Mr C didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this as it was so long 
ago.
BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
It possible the information BoS gave  Mr C about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr C about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision, and 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
Ref: DRN28169152But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2816915