K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains that she didnt receive  her Individual Savings Account (ISA) investment 
certificate from Virgin Money plc when  she opened  her account.
background 
In July 2018, Mrs S opened an ISA account  with Virgin with a £15,000 investment. Mrs S 
said she asked for a certificate of investment for her files as shes registered  disabled and 
would prefer documentary proof for her executors in case of an unfortunate event.
Mrs S said the branch  adviser told her she would receive a certificate in the post. A couple of 
days after her branch visit, Mrs S received a call from the branch adviser  to let her know her 
funds had cleared.  Mrs S said she requested  a certificate of investment again but received 
copies of her balance statement instead.  
In August  2018,  Mrs S complained to Virgin as she still hadnt received her certificate  of 
investment. She also complained that Virgin didnt automatically issue these certificates  
when accounts  were opened  with them. Virgin responded  to say they didnt have any proof 
that Mrs S requested  this certificate at the point  of sale as they werent present in the branch 
conversation.  They  said they didnt act incorrectly and a certificate of investment  would  be 
sent if a customer asked for it. They apologised if Mrs S felt this was requested during her 
branch visit. They enclosed the certificate  of investment with their response.   
One of our investigators  looked into things, he was satisfied that Mrs S had requested  an 
investment certificate  over the phone  on 26 July 2018. He wasnt  satisfied this certificate was 
sent to Mrs S. He recommended that Virgin pay £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Virgin provided a statement  from the branch manager around what  was discussed  at the 
point of sale. The branch adviser wasnt available to provide a statement but the branch 
manager recalled  the meeting. The branch manager confirmed they have facilities to print off 
certificates in branch  if this were to be requested  at the point of sale. The branch manager 
also said a certificate was requested over the phone on 26 July 2018 and would have been 
sent two days later.  Virgin asked for the complaint to be passed  to an ombudsman.
The case  was passed to me and I asked Virgin to provide further evidence around why they 
believed the investment certificate was sent. Theyve since  provided notes to say that a 
certificate of deposit was sent on 28 July 2018. Virgin also said Mrs S didnt tell them  in her 
original complaint email  that this was requested at the point of sale and in any event, a 
certificate of deposit is sent out by post following the opening  of this type of account.  
Virgin said a certificate of investment is something that can be sent from their head office but 
not the branch. Virgin said that Mrs S should  have been reassured by the courtesy call from 
the branch adviser on 26 July that her account was up and running so they didnt agree they 
caused any distress or inconvenience. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with what the 
investigator has said and Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN25706252Virgin has said that they have the facilities to print a certificate of deposit  in branch when an 
account like Mrs S is opened. Virgin said they didnt  believe Mrs S requested  this certificate 
at the point of sale because  if she had, it would have been  provided there and then.  
I think its reasonable that Mrs S and the adviser  would have had a conversation at the point 
of sale about a certificate. Virgin has explained a certificate of deposit  is always sent in the 
post after an account like Mrs S is opened, so Im satisfied this would have been explained 
to at the time. 
Virgins branch adviser called Mrs S a couple  of days after her visit to let her know her 
money had been  received. All parties agreed that a certificate was requested at this time. 
Virgin has provided evidence to show that a certificate was generated and sent two days  
later. But I think what has been misunderstood  here is the distinction between  a certificate of 
deposit and a certificate of investment. 
Its clear that Virgins branch had the facility  to print off a certificate of deposit and this is 
what would  normally be sent to customers in the post. But Virgin explained a certificate of 
investment can only be sent by their head  office and not the branch. The certificate of 
deposit was not the certificate of investment Mrs S asked for. There is a difference between  
the two and clearly  different steps would need  to be taken for a certificate  of investment to 
be sent. 
Ive considered Mrs S complaint email  of 28 August 2018 where she said, in all previous 
investments with Virgin, shes had to call their office to request a certificate  of investment 
before it was provided. Virgin  has explained  they do not provide  this information 
automatically when  an account like Mrs S is opened. There  isnt a requirement for Virgin to 
provide this certificate automatically so I dont think its unreasonable that Mrs S would have 
needed to request this separately.  
Ive considered whether Mrs S would have  made  it clear that she was requesting a certificate 
of investment. Virgin werent  able to provide the call of 26 July so Ive made my decision on 
what I think was most  likely to have happened. Mrs S has had other  investments with Virgin  
in the past and shes needed to call their office  to request a certificate of investment  for her 
files, so this wasnt  unfamiliar to her. Because of her previous experience,  Im persuaded 
that Mrs S would have  made her request clear.
I think the adviser was trying to be helpful by calling Mrs S out of courtesy to let her know  her 
money had been  received but its clear from Virgins notes that the adviser generated a 
certificate of deposit, rather than a certificate of investment. I think it would have  been  
reasonable for the adviser  to pass Mrs S request on to the necessary department so that a 
certificate of investment  could be sent.
The certificate of investment was issued shortly after Mrs S complaint email of August 2018,  
which was over a month after her initial request.  I dont think Mrs S should have needed to 
ask for this again.  
Mrs S explained why she wanted to have the certificate of investment for her records  and the 
certificate of deposit didnt  satisfy that need.  Mrs S felt the certificate of investment was the 
proof her executors needed in case of an unfortunate event  and given her ill health, I think  it 
would have caused her trouble to have  to chase this. I also think  having  to wait longer than 
necessary to receive it would have caused Mrs S upset as this was clearly something  she 
Ref: DRN25706253felt very strongly about. Given that Virgin  were  able to provide this certificate within days  of 
Mrs S complaint email,  I think  the delay was avoidable  on their part.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs S complaint against Virgin  Money plc.
Virgin Money plc must pay Mrs S £100  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2570625