K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about AXA PPP Healthcare Limited, and its rejection of further treatment on 
his knee.
background
I used a provisional decision on this case as follows  
Mr C damaged his leg in May 2016. Following that he claimed  under his private medical
policy with AXA and treatment was funded.  In April 2017 Mr C was told that AXA would 
cease to cover  his medical costs as they thought his condition had become chronic 
rather than acute. There is restricted cover  under the policy for chronic conditions. Mr C 
complained to us.
One of our investigators looked  into the matter and upheld the complaint. AXA did not 
agree, so the case has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As above I am not currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Like most private medical policies Mr Cs covers acute medical problems.  It doesnt cover 
chronic problems, apart from a few very serious conditions like cancer. AXA have stopped 
covering Mr Cs costs as they think his condition has become chronic. So I have to decide if 
I agree  with that decision or not, based  on the policy, law, and what is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Mr Cs policy  has a section that attempts  to explain the difference  between chronic 
and acute conditions.  The tests to classify a condition as chronic  are as follows 
Needs ongoing  or long term monitoring or examinations.
Needs ongoing  or long term control.
Requires rehabilitation.
Continues indefinitely.
Has no cure.
Comes back  or is likely to come  back.
The policy states  that a condition only has to fulfil one of these characteristics to be 
deemed chronic.
Looking at Mr Cs history with his leg I think his condition  meets the first, second and third 
of these criteria at least, so it isnt covered. I dont know of any compelling legal case  that
would assist Mr C here either.  But I can look beyond that to see if I think the decision  is 
fair, given  what the policy says.
From the medical history it seems that Mr C has had over 100 separate appointments for 
his knee. These were  mainly physiotherapy sessions  but it seems  to me that such  a large 
number of appointments does mean that this has become a long term chronic condition. 
Ref: DRN20175152Given the nature of the cover here and the policy wording I dont think  AXA should have to 
continue to meet ongoing  claims, as I believe Mr Cs condition can be said to be chronic at 
this time.
I propose to make no award against  AXA/PPP Healthcare Limited.
Since my provisional decision Mr W has made  a number  of points. Firstly  that he wasnt 
warned before surgery that cover  may cease after surgery. Second,  that my interpretation 
of chronic seems to cover the pre-surgery  period,  not since  the surgery. Finally,  if there  is 
a way that his condition  could be considered  chronic per surgery, but acute  after surgery.  
AXA have said they would  accept a certain  amount of treatment post surgery,  but not the 
amount Mr C had suggested  his doctors  were talking about. They  confirmed that it wasnt  
time that moved a condition from acute to chronic  but a wider  look at the condition  and 
treatment. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be changing my provisional decision. 
The issue  of chronic  / acute isnt solely dependent on time, although that can be a big factor  
in such cases.  Here I am persuaded that Mr Cs condition moved from acute  to chronic and 
ceased to be a valid claim. As for it being possible for a condition  to move  back  to acute that 
would probably  only occur if an operation had caused a separate problem to occur, then that 
might be covered. I have  no proof here that any problems post-op are new and not related to 
the pre-op issues.  
I dont see that any particular warning would be required before an operation. The definition 
of chronic remains the same and I dont see that an operation interferes with this. Im not 
sure if Mr C is suggesting that if he hadnt had the operation  cover  would have continued,  
but if he is I dont think  this is the case.  Even without an operation  at some point an ongoing 
condition may meet  the chronic  definition. And I think this would  have happened  here.  
Whilst Mr C has my sympathy  for his long standing medical problem I do think  this has now 
moved into a reasonable definition of a chronic  condition, and isnt a valid claim under his 
policy. 
my final decision
I make  no award against AXA/PPP Healthcare Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2017515