K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him and the late Mrs F a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. I will refer to the late Mrs F as Mrs F 
throughout. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs F bought the policy in 2005  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr F for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £336.89 a month towards  Mr and Mrs Fs 
mortgage balance  and related expenses in the event of a successful claim. The policy was 
free for the first three months  and after that it cost £20.01 a month. 
At the time,  Mr F was employed as a project  engineer. He has told us he was entitled to full 
sick pay (but is unsure  of how long it wouldve paid out for), and death  in service benefit.  
Mr F said he sustained  an injury  some years prior to the sale of the PPI. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account started in June  2005.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Fs representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Halifax wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs Fs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr and Mrs F about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs F 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN20187302The information Mr and Mrs F received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Fs. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in June 2005 after the sale of general insurance products  like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005.  So the FSAs 
and the FCAs  overarching principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB) are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN20187303GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Fs case.
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Halifax  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs F with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN20187304-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs F sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs F, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs F 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr F and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs F know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  I dont  know  exactly  what 
happened during the sale so Ive looked  closely at the paperwork available  from the time to 
help me decide  whats  likely to have happened. Halifax  sent a welcome letter to Mr F 
following the sale. It thanks Mr F for choosing  the PPI. Ive also seen a demands  and 
needs document where some of Mr Fs details have  been recorded,  as well as a quotation 
which gave details of the policy including the monthly cost and benefit. I think its likely these 
came about  as a result  of a conversation between Mr and Mrs F and Halifax where  PPI was 
discussed. Based on what Ive seen I think its likely  Mr and Mrs F knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Mr F says Halifax didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Halifax  disagrees and says it did 
provide advice. Looking at what happened  when Halifax sold Mr and Mrs F the PPI, Im 
persuaded that it provided advice. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs F with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Halifax took some steps to establish  whether  the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs F. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Fs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. And a demands and needs statement 
was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs F had a need for the policy.  But I 
dont think the questions asked went far enough to give a clear picture of Mr and Mrs Fs 
wider circumstances.  For example I cant see they were asked about  what  other means  they 
had of making their repayments  such as what Mr Fs employee benefits were.   
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs F given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN20187305While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs F, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr F met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs F had a need for the policy  Mr F seems to have been  the main  wage 
earner and it seems likely Mr and Mrs Fs finances would  be put under strain if he 
were not working   even allowing for the sickness benefits  he was entitled to. The 
policy would have  helped  Mr and Mrs F manage the consequences were Mr F unable 
to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs F. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs F. 
There was nothing  about Mr Fs employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mr F has told 
us he sustained an injury around  30 years  before the sale.  But  from what  he has told 
us about this I dont  think  it means the policy wasnt suitable for him.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the requirement  
that to claim for disability Mr F must  not be able to do his job, similar  work,  or any 
paid work which his experience, education  and training  reasonably qualified him to 
do, and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for 
each claim), the policy still provided  valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Fs 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs F be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs F sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs F were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr F was unable  to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the costs and 
monthly benefit. I have  reached this conclusion because I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs F 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be. Ive seen  a copy of the PPI quotation letter  sent to Mr and 
Mrs F. It sets out the mortgage repayment benefit on the first page, and on the following  
page sets out the monthly cost of the policy. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs F agreed to take out the 
policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs F Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
Ref: DRN20187306that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs F all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Fs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Fs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Fs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs F about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Fs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr F has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes 
and standards  of good industry  practice  applicable  to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and 
reasonable to conclude  that Halifax ought  to have done either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs F? To what extent  did Mr 
and Mrs F suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs F. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs F suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs F would  have still taken out the policy, had Halifax  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs F, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs F suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mr and Mrs F would  have  acted differently, or whether they would have  taken out the policy  
in any event.
Mr F says they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN20187307Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs F had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mr 
F was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment,  they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances  at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs F were given about the cost and 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs F thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any condition, injury, illness,  disease, sickness  
or related conditions  and/or associated  symptoms, whether diagnosed or not, about 
which Mr F knew or should reasonably have known, or had seen or arranged  to have 
seen a doctor during the 12 months before the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr F 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr F be unable to 
do his job, any similar job and any paid work which his experience,  education or 
training reasonable qualified him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs F pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs F from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr F was eligible for its benefits  
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Although Mr F says he sustained an 
injury around 30 years  before the sale and the policy wouldnt have provided cover had he 
needed time off work because of this, I dont think better information about this exclusion 
would have put Mr and Mrs F off agreeing to it. I say this because  this injury  occurred many 
Ref: DRN20187308years before they took out the PPI and Mr F doesnt  appear to have had any ongoing 
treatment. So I dont  think Mr F would have thought he would have needed to take time off 
work and need  to make a claim as a result of this.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr F wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and 
Mrs F might reasonably  have  expected.  But its unlikely they would have expected  to be able 
to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Mr and Mrs F from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs F, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs F had known they could only claim for disability if Mr F was unable to do his 
job, any similar job and any paid work  which his experience, education or training 
reasonable qualified him to do, it might have played into their thinking about  what they would 
have done. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought   although  its possible 
they may not have been overly concerned  given that if Mr F was unable  (through disability) 
to carry on his own occupation the chances  that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs F that any claim they made  would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for, 
but they had limited other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs F would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr F be unable to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time, ensuring their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs F would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr F was made redundant, or unable to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs F would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Fs representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN20187309Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs F would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Fs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs F found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they would have been 
in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mr F believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that they would not have taken  
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs F in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs F compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr F thinks  Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs F, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2005 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Fs representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs F and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs F in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN201873010Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019 .
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2018730