K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that Greenlight  Credit Ltd (trading as Varooma) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
February 2021. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold part of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Both Miss H and 
Varooma have said they have nothing further  to add in relation to my findings. However 
Miss H has drawn to my attention that Varooma did try to settle her complaint whilst  it was 
being considered by this Service  it offered to reduce her outstanding loan balance.  But she 
said that a condition of that offer was that she withdrew her complaint. She is concerned that 
other consumers might  not get the compensation they deserve if they accept similar  offers 
from the lender.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with any new evidence or further comments I see no reason  to alter the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional  decision. But I do think it appropriate to respond to the additional 
comments made by Miss H.
I dont think it is unreasonable for a business  to attempt to reach a mutually agreeable 
resolution to a complaint directly with a consumer, even after the matter  has been passed  to 
this Service. And given that settlement  would  be in resolution of a complaint, it isnt 
unreasonable for a business  to ask that a complaint be withdrawn once the matter  was 
concluded. Of course a negotiated settlement might mean that a consumer would receive 
less compensation  that this Service might direct. But a consumer has no guarantee that a 
complaint would be upheld by the Service, so might  actually receive more compensation. 
That is the nature of a negotiated settlement  before matters are decided by an independent 
body.
I conclude that, for the reasons I have given in my provisional decision,  the checks Varooma 
did before  agreeing the first two loans were proportionate.  But I think Varooma needed  to do 
more checks before agreeing the final loan,  and that better checks would  have led to 
Miss Hs application  being  declined. So Varooma needs to pay Miss H some compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Varooma should  have given the final loan to Miss H (in May 2018). So Varooma 
should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Miss H made towards  this loan as payments towards the capital
Ref: DRN22823442if reworking Miss Hs loan account as Ive directed results in Miss H effectively having 
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then Varooma should refund 
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Miss Hs loan account leaves an amount  of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind Varooma that it should  take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree  an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss H.
Varooma should cancel  the bill of sale it holds in respect of this loan, and if it still 
holds them, return any keys, the V5 document, or other documentation  in relation to 
Miss Hs vehicle.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Hs credit file in relation to the 
loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Varooma to take off tax from this interest. Varooma 
must give Miss H a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision, for the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, is that I uphold 
Miss Hs complaint and direct Greenlight  Credit  Ltd to put things  right as detailed  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22823443EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss H complains  that Greenlight Credit Ltd (trading  as Varooma) lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner.
background
Miss H was given three loans by Varooma between January 2017 and May 2018. Each of the loans 
were secured against  her motor vehicle.  She has told us that her complaint is mainly about what 
happened when the third loan was agreed. But I think it is fair and reasonable that I should consider 
her entire  borrowing relationship with the lender. Miss H repaid her first loan earlier than planned. And 
she repaid  her second  loan by refinancing it with the third loan, whilst taking some additional  
borrowing. But she has struggled to make her repayments  on that final loan and a balance  remained 
outstanding when she made her complaint. A summary  of Miss Hs borrowing  from Varooma  is as 
follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount Term  
(Months)
1 13/01/2017 28/07/2017 £ 600 12
2 02/01/2018 Refinanced £ 500 12
3 24/05/2018 Outstanding £ 900 18
Miss Hs complaint has been considered by one of our adjudicators. Whilst she thought  Varooma 
should have done more  checks  before  agreeing the third loan, she didnt think that better checks  
would have led to the loan application being declined.  So our adjudicator  didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. 
Miss H didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint  hasnt been resolved informally, it has 
been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website and Ive kept this in mind while  deciding Miss Hs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Varooma gave these loans to Miss H required it to carry  out a 
reasonable and proportionate  assessment  of whether  she could  afford  to repay  what she owed  in a 
sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Varooma  had to think  about  whether  repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties  or adverse consequences for Miss H. In practice  this meant 
that Varooma had to ensure  that making  the repayments wouldnt cause Miss H undue  difficulty or 
adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Varooma to simply  think  about  the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider  the impact of any repayments on Miss H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial 
history, current  situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Ref: DRN22823444In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period).  
There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check shouldve 
been for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability 
and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about 
whether Varooma did what it needed to before agreeing to lend to Miss H.
Varooma gathered some information from Miss H before  it agreed the first two loans. It asked her for 
details of her income,  and her normal expenditure. And it checked her credit file. Although  I havent 
seen the results of those  credit checks Im not aware of any adverse  information  that I think should 
have caused additional  concerns to the lender at that time.
I think  that the checks Varooma did before agreeing  the first two loans were proportionate.  The 
amounts that Miss H needed to repay were small  compared with the disposable income shed 
declared. And both loans  were due to be repaid within a year.  Given  these repayment amounts, what  
was apparent about Miss Hs circumstances  at the time, and her borrowing history with the lender, 
I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Varooma to ask her for the amount of information that 
would be needed  to show the lending was unsustainable  before agreeing the first two loans.  
Before it agreed the third loan Varooma  again asked Miss H for details of her income,  and her normal  
expenditure. And it checked her credit  file once more.  Its check showed that Miss H had received a 
county court judgement  around  two months earlier which  might have caused some additional 
concerns. And Miss H was asking to almost double the amount that she was borrowing,
The commitment that Miss H was entering into with Varooma was greater than before. She would  
need to make  monthly repayments for a period of 18 months.  So given what  Varooma  had seen from 
its credit check,  and from its lending  history with Miss H, I would  expect that it would want  to gather, 
and independently check, some detailed  information about her financial circumstances before it 
agreed to give this loan to her. I think it would have been proportionate for Varooma  to independently 
check the true state of Miss Hs finances before  agreeing the loan. 
Miss H has told us that she wasnt able to provide full copies of her bank statements  to Varoomas  
agent at the time. Instead she says she gave him a limited  selection of screen  shots showing some 
transactions on her account. I cant conclude that was sufficient for Varooma to get a full picture  of 
Miss Hs financial situation   so I dont think its checks before agreeing the final loan were 
proportionate.
But although  I dont  think the checks Varooma did before agreeing the loan were  sufficient, that in 
itself doesnt mean that Miss Hs complaint should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded that what 
I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown  Varooma  that Miss H couldnt  sustainably 
afford the repayments. So Ive looked at Miss Hs bank  statements, and what shes told us about her 
financial situation, to see what better checks would have shown Varooma.
Ref: DRN22823445At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that Varooma  
should have carried out. I do think Varooma needed  evidence to corroborate what  Miss H said was 
happening with her finances. And looking at her bank statements  is one way of achieving that 
although there are of course many other ways that level of detail could be established.  But I think that 
by looking at Miss Hs bank  statements I can get a good idea of what  better  checks  might have 
shown.
Miss H has told us that she was facing problems managing her spending at that time, and that in 
particular she had a problem with online  gambling.  And that is apparent from her bank statements.  In 
the month before  she took the final loan from Varooma Miss H spent  an amount equal  to her normal 
income from her employment on what appear to be gambling transactions. Had Varooma  seen that 
level of expenditure  I think it would have concluded, as a responsible lender, that it was unlikely that 
Miss H would be able to afford  to repay any new lending in a sustainable  manner.
In summary I currently think  the checks Varooma  did before agreeing the first two loans were 
proportionate. But I currently think Varooma needed to do more checks before agreeing  the final loan, 
and that better  checks would  have led to Miss Hs application being  declined. So Varooma needs to 
pay Miss H some compensation.
Ref: DRN2282344