K820x#14complaint
Miss Ts complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest)  is that it closed her 
credit card account unfairly  and wont re-open  it.
background
Miss T held a credit card with Natwest.  In 2018  she fell behind  with her payments, and spoke 
to Natwest in July of that year to agree a repayment arrangement for 18 months. That 
arrangement failed in the second month,  which meant her account was defaulted and 
passed to recoveries.
Miss T was unhappy Natwest  did this. She says the reason she didnt  comply  with the 
repayment plan was because she was waiting  on a call from Natwest  to make a different 
arrangement. She wanted her credit  card account to be re-instated, for the default to be 
removed, and for compensation.
Natwest didnt agree it had done  anything wrong. It proved that it had been  clear with Miss T 
that if she didnt  stick to the repayment  plan what would then happen.  And she didnt stick to 
the plan. It apologised if she was expecting a call back in September 2018 that she didnt 
receive, but didnt  think that was a justifiable reason for her not sticking  to the arrangement 
that was in place at the time. 
Miss T still didnt think this was fair, so she brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matter, and concluded  that Natwest had acted  in accordance  
with the terms and conditions of Miss Ts account,  and that it hadnt  treated her unfairly. She 
believed it had been trying to help her.
Miss T still didnt agree, and asked if Natwest would reconsider re-instating her credit  card 
account. She asked  for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that Natwest  hasnt  made a mistake  
or treated Miss T poorly. It took the action it did in direct response to how Miss T was 
managing her account, and it gave her fair notice that it would do so. Ive seen that it tried to 
help Miss T with a repayment arrangement, and when that failed it followed its terms and 
conditions, as it was entitled to do. 
So I cant uphold the complaint, and I cant ask Natwest to re-open her credit card account, 
because thats  a matter for its own commercial discretion. I also cant  ask for the default  to 
be removed, as its an accurate reflection of how the account was managed,  and Natwest is 
obliged to report this accurately.  
As I havent  been  persuaded  that Natwests done anything  wrong,  I wont  be awarding  
compensation.
Ref: DRN29110212I know this decision will come as a disappointment to Miss T. I can see that she needs a 
credit card for specific personal reasons, but I cant force  Natwest  to give her one. It closed 
her account  when she was in long-standing arrears,  and it gave her fair warning of what 
would happen  if she didnt stick to the agreement.  Therefore, she had full foreseeability  
when she didnt comply  with the repayment arrangement of what would then happen.
Im sorry  to hear of Miss Ts circumstances, and also that she wasnt called back by Natwest  
when it said it would.  But I dont  think thats a good  enough reason for her to have broken 
the repayment arrangement that was in place at the time. Especially by such a small sum.  
And thereafter to fail to pay anything. 
My role is to look at the evidence, and reach an outcome thats  fair to both parties. From  
everything Ive seen here, it wouldnt be fair for me to criticise Natwest  for what it did, so I 
cant uphold the complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2911021