K820x#14Complaint
Mr R complains that the hire purchase  agreement (the agreement)  arranged for him by 
Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited (the dealership) was misrepresented to him.
Background
Mr R entered into a finance agreement with a finance company in 2016 to acquire a used 
car. This was arranged  by the dealership. 
Mr R says that when he visited  the dealership he told the adviser  that he was a high mileage 
driver. He says he explained his previous finance agreement  had an annual mileage 
allowance of 17,000 but he was looking to reduce this in his new agreement  to 14,000 miles. 
He says he was told this could be arranged within his budget.  
Mr R says that when he returned the car he was expecting  an excess  mileage charge  of 
around £400 as he had driven more than 14,000  miles. Instead he received an excess  
mileage invoice of just under £1,500. He contacted his finance company and was told that 
the annual mileage allowance on his agreement was 8,000.
The dealership says Mr Rs agreement set out the maximum mileage as well as the excess  
mileage charges and that Mr R signed  the agreement  and agreed  to its terms. It says that 
the annual mileage allowance affects the monthly  payments and that a higher mileage 
allowance would have  increased the amount  Mr R would have paid. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that to be satisfied there had been  a 
misrepresentation she would need  to be persuaded that the dealership made  an untrue 
statement of fact and that this was the main  reason  which induced Mr R into entering  into the 
agreement. She didnt  dispute that Mr R was a high mileage driver  and that the mileage 
allowance was an important factor  for him. However she said that had there been a higher 
annual mileage allowance this would have been reflected in higher monthly  payment 
amounts. 
She also noted that the agreement set out the annual  mileage  allowance  and Mr R had a 14 
day cooling  off period in which he could have  withdrawn from the agreement had he not 
been happy. She said that if the mileage allowance was of key importance it would have 
been reasonable for Mr R to have checked  this before entering into the agreement.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators view. He said that when he visited  the dealership  he set 
out his budget and the mileage he covered  each  year. He said his budget  was £280 a month 
and that the agreement needed to have an annual  mileage  allowance  of at least 14,000. He 
said he couldnt afford to pay more  each month  or a lump sum payment at the end of the 
agreement due to excess mileage. He said that had he realised the low mileage limit and he 
wouldnt have acquired the car and would have looked for an alternative within  his budget  
with the mileage he needed.
Mr R said he didnt check the agreement  in within the 14 day cooling off period which he 
accepted he should have.  However he said he trusted the dealership and noted  his previous 
agreement had a 17,000  mile annual  limit.
Ref: DRN24596092My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The dealership arranged a finance agreement for Mr R to acquire a used car. The 
agreement sets out the key terms and Mr R has signed this. In doing so he agreed to the 
terms and conditions. The agreement includes  the annual mileage limit of 8,000.  Mr R has 
accepted that he didnt  notice this 8,000  limit and didnt check  the agreement  in the cooling 
off period. Instead  he relied on the discussion he had with the adviser.
There is no suggestion that the information  in the agreement wasnt  clear. The question  is 
whether there was a misrepresentation of the contents which  led Mr R to enter into the 
agreement. As our investigator set out, to say a misrepresentation has taken place there 
needs to be a false statement of fact and this needs  to have induced Mr R into entering into 
the agreement.
In this case it is clear Mr R is a high mileage driver.  He has provided copies of his previous  
agreement which had an annual  mileage  limit of 17,000.  He has also provided copies of his 
insurance documents from the past few years and these  confirm his statement that he 
always covers  himself  for a minimum of 14,000 miles a year. Given Mr Rs testimony  and the 
supporting evidence, I find, on balance, it is more likely than not that he did explain his need 
for a high mileage. 
However, I do not find that I have enough evidence to say that a false statement of fact has 
occurred. I say this because, based  on Mr Rs comments he explained  his budget  and was 
told by the adviser  that a car had been found to meet his needs.  I have  nothing  to say that 
the adviser confirmed  the annual mileage amount or said that Mr Rs desired  14,000  miles 
had been included. The agreement set out the annual mileage allowance and given the 
importance of this to Mr R I would have expected him to check this was what  he wanted at 
that time.
I understand Mr Rs comments that he relied on the discussion  he had with the adviser but in 
this case I find I do not have enough  to say that Mr R was told his agreement would have an 
annual mileage allowance of 14,000 and as the information was available  for him to see at 
the point of supply I do not find I can say there was a misrepresentation by omission.
Overall, I can see why Mr R is upset  that the annual mileage was lower  than he wanted. But, 
on balance, given the information was set out in the agreement and I have nothing to say 
that Mr R was clearly told the mileage  would be different to that included in the agreement, I 
do not find I have  enough to uphold  this complaint. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr R had hoped for and I do accept  he could have been 
provided with better service, but in this case I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN24596093My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2459609