K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc closed his overdrawn  current  account  and appointed  debt 
collectors without contacting him first.
background
In October  2015 Mr H opened  a current account with TSB. In March 2016 he stopped using  
the account; it was overdrawn. In September 2018  he discovered that TSB had closed the 
account and appointed a debt collector  for the overdraft. He hadnt  heard from TSB about 
that, so he asked for the account  to be reopened, and for the overdraft charges and interest 
to be cancelled. He offered  to repay  the balance. TSB refused, so Mr H brought this 
complaint to our Service. He also complained  that TSB had never  give him a final response 
letter or explained its actions or why it would not accede to his requests.
TSB said it had sent Mr H an arrears notice  in April 2016 and a final demand in May, but had 
received no response, so it had closed  the account in June.  It noted  that Mr H was no longer 
living at the address registered on the account,  and said it had not been notified of his 
change of address.  Mr H told our adjudicator that he had moved in December 2015, and that 
he had told TSB in the following month. He disputed  that these letters  sent after the 
move  had ever been sent.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He thought TSB had provided enough 
evidence that it had sent the letters to Mr Hs last known address (where hed lived in 2015), 
so he thought TSB had followed the right procedure for registering a default. Mr H had 
continued to use the account  after that, so the adjudicator thought  Mr H should reasonably 
have been aware  that the account had become overdrawn, and that there would be charges. 
He said the overdraft charges had been correctly applied,  and that Mr H should have known 
about them  because  he had been registered for online  banking.  (He added that TSB had not 
had reason to think that Mr H might be in financial difficulties, and had not known that hed 
had mental health  issues,  although these issues had not been part of his original complaint.) 
Finally, he said that TSBs failure to send  Mr H a final response letter had not prevented him 
from complaining to our Service, which he had done in November 2018.
Mr H asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
In an email on 17 January  2019,  one of our adjudicators asked Mr H when he had moved  
from the address  hed lived at when he opened his account to the address he lives at now.  
On the same  day, Mr H replied to say he had moved  in May 2018. He didnt mention that he 
had lived at a third address in between. But in a subsequent email to another adjudicator in 
April 2019, Mr H said that he had moved  in December 2015, and had told TSB about  the 
move in January  2016. So that address history  is a little ambiguous.
On balance, I dont  think I can fault TSB for writing to Mr Hs original address in April and 
May 2016. Mr H disputes that those letters were sent, which   if he was no longer living  
there  is a claim he can have no evidential basis  for making. But I accept that they were 
sent, because  TSB has provided two records of them being sent. One record is entitled 
Ref: DRN27149502Notice Requests, and so Mr H has argued that this isnt proof that the letters  were  actually  
sent, only that someone requested that they be sent. Im not persuaded by that, partly 
because I think the letter sending process  is automated, so that once a letter is requested, it 
will automatically be generated and sent by TSBs systems. The other reason I think  they 
were sent is because of the second record, which lists the same letters but dated a day or 
two earlier. So I think that is a record of when the letters were generated, and the Notice 
Requests record is when  they were sent.  Also, there were three notices in total  an arrears 
notice, an enforcement notice, and a formal demand  and I dont think  its likely  that all 
three were requested  but none of them were actually sent. So I agree that TSB followed the 
correct procedure for closing and defaulting  the account.
Even if I had taken a different view about  all of that, its not in dispute that Mr H carried on 
making purchases on the account into March 2016,  three months after one of the dates  on 
which he told us hed moved. So if he stopped receiving monthly statements, then I would 
expect him to notice  and to infer that something was wrong. That wouldnt  be the case if he 
only received his statements online,  of course   but then he would still have seen the 
overdraft and, later on, the overdraft charges. He might not have looked at them, but if so, 
then that was his choice.  He knew he was still using the account.
When Mr H made his last purchase on the account,  on 8 March  2016, the balance was 
£46.63 overdrawn. (The overdraft was the result  of the last ten transactions  on the account,  
which all appear to have  been purchases  of food.) Another £168.19 of interest and charges 
were added, starting in April. I dont see any reason why those sums should be waived.
Finally, although  TSB should have sent Mr H a final response letter,  and its regrettable  that 
it didnt, this did not prevent Mr H from pursuing  his complaint with this Service.  He has 
known since April 2019 (if not earlier)  what TSBs  case was.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2714950