K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr B says he wasnt told about PPI and it was mis-sold to him. He applied for the 
card on line. He was sent a credit agreement to sign afterwards, along with a 
demands and needs  statement that said he had opted to take PPI. Bank  of Scotland 
has sent in a copy of Mr Bs credit card application form. On it, theres a section  
about PPI. To take out PPI, the customer had to select  the box saying they wanted  it. 
The box couldve been  left blank if they didnt want PPI. There is a tick in the box on 
Mr Bs application saying that he wants  PPI. He signed separately underneath  the 
tick in the box about  PPI. So, I think  it more likely  that Mr B opted  to take PPI, 
completing the paperwork and signing the form to say he wanted it. I can understand 
why he may not remember  that now, given how much time has passed. Also, Mr B 
was sent a demands and needs statement about PPI. If he didnt want or need PPI, I 
think it likely  he wouldve  said so at the time.
Bank of Scotland didnt recommended the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have  to check  that 
it was suitable  for him. However,  it still had to give him information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading,  so that he could decide  for himself if the PPI was right for him 
and he wanted  to buy it.
 Mr B said he wouldve got sickness benefits  through his public sector employer and 
was eligible to get redundancy pay. He said he wouldve got six months worth of full 
sick pay and six months worth at half pay. He said he also had life and critical illness 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I cant  see that PPI 
was inappropriate  for his needs. He was eligible to take out the policy  and it 
appeared affordable. I cant see that he was affected by any of the main  exclusions 
to or limits  on the PPI cover. The policy wouldve paid out on top of Mr Bs work 
benefits, allowing  him to use these to meet his other household expenses. It wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim. I cant  see that his other 
insurances provided him with duplicate cover. So, I cant see that Mr Bs other 
resources meant  that the PPI wasnt right for him. 
Mr B says the information he was given about PPI wasnt clear, particularly about  the 
costs and benefits. Its possible the information  Bank of Scotland gave Mr B about 
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But he chose  to take it out - so it looks  
like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him 
if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr Bs said but these points dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN25813142This means I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means Bank  of Scotland doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about  that. Because Bank  of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2581314